 MR. MAGUIEE : I beg the right hon. Gentleman's pardon. I did not use the word "famine"; I said great distress, misery, and destitution.
 MR. W. PORTMAN : Sir, I rise to move that an humble and dutiful Address be presented to Her Majesty, in answer to the most gracious Speech which we have just heard read; and although when requested by the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government to undertake the task I much wished that it had fallen to the lot of some other hon. Member of this House, whose greater command of language and experience in addressing you would have enabled him to express the feeling of this House more eloquently and more adequately than I can hope to do, yet I felt that it was intended to pay, through me, a compliment to the constituency which I have the honour to represent, and therefore I shall endeavour briefly to call the attention of the House to the principal topics in Her Majesty's Speech. It is probable there are many hon. Members now present who attended the meeting of Parliament in 1840, and may have heard the hon. Member who then moved the Address offer to Her Majesty the congratulations of the House and of the country on Her then approaching marriage with Prince Albert. The hon. Member expressed the most confident expectation that from the union then about to take place the most complete happiness would result, not only to Her Majesty, but to the nation over which She reigned. We have all seen how fully that expectation has been realized. But it is now, alas ! my painful task to refer to the termination of an illustrious career, and to notice some leading features in the character of the Prince whom it has pleased God to remove from amongst us, in the prime of life, and while actively engaged in promoting every measure which could tend to the mental advancement or physical comfort of the great mass of our fellow-countrymen. Sir, the task which I have undertaken is at once easy and difficult—easy, because I feel assured that all who now hear me will concur with me in expressing the highest admiration of the deceased Prince in all the
 51 "A question of great importance and which might have led to very serious consequences, arose between Her Majesty and the Government of the United States of America;" 52 53 54 "The wrongs committed by various parties and by successive Governments in Mexico upon foreigners resident within the Mexican territory, and for which no satisfactory redress could he obtained, have led to the conclusion of a convention between Her Majesty, the Emperor of the French, and the Queen of Spain, for the purpose of regulating a combined operation on the coast of Mexico, with a view to obtain that redress which has hitherto been withheld." 55 56 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, to thank Her Majesty for the most gracious Speech delivered by Her Command to both Houses of Parliament: "To take this first opportunity of offering to Her Majesty our sincere Condolence on the afflicting dispensation of Providence with which Her Majesty and this Nation have been visited in the death of His Royal Highness the Prince Consort: "To assure Her Majesty of our heartfelt participation in the universal feeling of sympathy with Her Majesty under this calamitous bereavement, and in the deep sense entertained by all classes of Her Majesty's Subjects of the irreparable loss which the Country has sustained in a Prince whose tender attachment to Her Majesty, whose eminent virtues, and whose high attainments, unceasingly devoted to the interests of this
 57 "To assure Her Majesty that it is our earnest prayer that Her Majesty's health, in which Her faithful People take so lively an interest, will not be impaired by overwhelming grief, and that this Kingdom will long continue to enjoy the blessings of a reign with which its happiness and welfare are so intimately associated: "Humbly to thank Her Majesty for informing us that Her relations with all European Powers continue to be friendly and satisfactory, and to assure Her Majesty that, with Her, we trust that there is no reason to apprehend any disturbance of the peace of Europe: "To express to Her Majesty the deep gratification with which we learn that a question of great importance, and which might have led to very serious consequences, arising from the seizure and forcible removal of four Passengers from on board a British Mail Packet by the Commander of a ship of war of the United States, has been satisfactorily settled by the restoration of the Passengers to British protection, and by the disavowal by the United States' Government of the act of violence committed by their Naval Officer; and that the friendly relations between Her Majesty and the President of the United States have therefore remained unimpaired: "To assure Her Majesty that we have heard with much satisfaction of the loyalty and patriotic spirit manifested on this occasion by Her North American Subjects: "Humbly to thank Her Majesty for commanding that the Convention between Her Majesty, the Emperor of the French, and the Queen of Spain, for the purpose of regulating a combined operation on the Coast of Mexico, with a view to obtain that redress which has hitherto been withheld for the wrongs committed by various parties and successive Governments in Mexico, upon foreigners resident in the Mexican territory, should he laid before us: "To express our satisfaction that the improvement which has taken place in the relations between Her Majesty's Government and that of the Emperor of China, and the good faith with which the Chinese Government have continued to fulfil the engagements of the Treaty of Tien-tsin, have enabled Her Majesty to withdraw Her Troops from the city of Canton, and to reduce the amount of Her force on the coast and in the seas of China: "To thank Her Majesty for informing us that
 58 "To thank Her Majesty for having directed the Estimates for the ensuing year to be laid before us: "To assure Her Majesty that we will give our most serious attention to the measures for the improvement of the haw, especially as concerns the Title and Transfer of hand, as well as to other measures of public usefulness which may be submitted for our consideration: "To convey to Her Majesty the assurance that we participate in Her regret that in some parts of the United Kingdom, and in certain branches of industry, temporary causes should have produced considerable pressure and privation; but at the same time, to express to Her Majesty the gratification with which we learn that Her Majesty has reason to believe that the general condition of the Country is sound and satisfactory: "Humbly to assure Her Majesty that, in common with Her Majesty, we fervently pray that the blessing of Almighty God may attend our Deliberations, and may guide them to the promotion of the welfare and happiness of Her People."
 MR. DISRAELI :—Sir, the intimation conveyed in the Speech of the Lords Commissioners, both with respect to our foreign relations and our domestic condition, must, I feel, be satisfactory to the House. Although no one can be blind to the fact that the general condition of affairs is one pregnant with anxiety—but I hope not apprehension—yet, under the favour of Divine Providence, and with the exercise of vigilance and moderation in our Councils, let us trust that these perils and trials may be averted or surmounted. Since the House was prorogued the march of events in North America has been momentous. Nothing, however, has occurred so far which has for a moment shaken my conviction of the wisdom of the policy which was adopted originally by Her Majesty's Government—the policy of neutrality; and I feel bound to take this, the earliest opportunity, of expressing my belief that that policy on the part of Her Majesty's Government was sincerely adopted and had been sincerely practised. Very recently,
 65 Trent 66 67 68 69 70 71
 MR. HADFIELD  said, that the expressed and decided opinion of the noble Lord in reference to neutrality with America would give the greatest satisfaction to the country, and he hoped the House would endorse the noble Lord's sentiments to the fullest extent. He could not help expressing his opinion that they were deeply indebted to the noble Earl at the head of the Foreign Office for the manner in which he had conducted the proceedings, for the temper which he had shown, and for the courteous way in which he had put the difficult question before the Government of the United States for their consideration. It was a most unfortunate thing that the public press on both sides of the Atlantic should act in a manner which almost showed that the conductors of it were resolved to bring two great and generous countries into collision in order that they might sell a few newspapers. The conduct of a considerable portion of the press here and in America was perfectly discreditable to the two countries which they professed to represent. He should be gratified if a law were passed which should give power to the Government to have the articles in those villanous prints burned by the common hangman. The general feeling in the United States was friendly towards England; and the reception in America, little more than twelve months ago, of the heir apparent to the throne should convince
 77
 MR. SPEAKER   reported 50
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, it was not his intention to disturb the feeling of unanimity that appeared to pervade the House, or touch upon any subject on which a contest could arise; but he felt it to be his duty, as the representative of an Irish constituency, and intimately connected with a large and populous city in the south of Ireland, to say a few words respecting the real condition of the country. It was stated in the address—
 "That temporary causes have produced considerable pressure and privation, but Her Majesty has reason to believe that the general condition of the country is sound and satisfactory," 78 79 80
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, I rise to order. Does the right hon. gentleman mean to say that I stated what is not true? My statement was based on a speech made by the right hon. gentleman himself.
 MR. MAGUIRE:  You boasted of it.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, that he had not intended to address the House, and he should not have done so only he deemed it necessary to correct some of the statements of the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary. Some of those statements were altogether novel. He (Mr. Vincent Scully) must say that he had not heard of any meeting held in Skull or Skibbereen to set the people against their landlords. He did not think that the hon. Member for Dungarvan had overstated the facts; but if he had, the Chief Secretary had equally understated them If there had been overstatements on one side as to the distress, there had been understatement on the other. The right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland had charged the hon. Member with travelling out of the Queen's Speech; but he (Mr. Maguire) was not open to that charge; for there was a paragraph in the Royal Speech alluding to the distress which existed in some portions of Her Majesty's dominions, though that paragraph was not supposed to refer to Ireland. There could be no doubt that there was a deficient harvest in Ireland last year. Potatoes had failed, wheat had failed, and oats were a partial failure. Fuel—turf, had also failed through the extreme wetness of the season. The right hon. Baronet said that there was a great deal of food in Ireland. There was a great deal of foreign, but not of home food there. The right hon. Baronet had also said that from no place had he got a statement of distress without receiving a counter statement. He should like to ask the right hon. Baronet whether he bad received any counter statement from Skull or Skibbereen. He might, perhaps, have received such statements from persons who had corn to sell, and who were anxious that the Government should not send any relief into their districts. He was no faminemonger, but he believed in the existence of great distress in some parts of Cork, for he had received applications from them for subscriptions, and no similar applications had been hitherto made to him during the ten years he had represented that county. The right hon. Gentleman had spoken about the begging-box being sent round; but the applications which he had heard made to the Government were for the construction of a railway, and for the speedy carrying out of public works in the Department of the Ordnance, He gave the late Chief Secretary for Ire land a good character when the right hon. Gentleman was leaving office. He stated
 86 Cœsar venit in Galliam sumâ diligentiâ bonâ fide 87
 MR. WESTERN WOOD , in rising to second the motion of the hon. Member for Dorsetshire for an Address in reply to Her Majesty's most gracious Speech, said he was aware of the proverbial forbearance and indulgence extended to every Member on the first occasion of his venturing to address that House; and while none could be so acutely sensible as himself how much he stood in need of their exercise, he felt that he should less deserve them if he ventured upon any lengthened appeal to the consideration of hon. Members, and he should, therefore, proceed at once to discharge in the best manner he could the responsibility devolving upon him. The touching allusion in Her Majesty's Speech to the irreparable loss which Her Majesty and the country had sustained, doubtless, came home to the hearts of all, and the House of Commons desired in common with every individual in the country, to express their sincere sympathy and condolence with Her Majesty in her
 59 60 61 Trent 62 63 64
 SIR ROBERT PEEL:  I am quite certain that the time I took in visiting the most distressed districts was more than three days. But this I will tell the hon. Gentleman—that the people of Ireland are no longer what they were. And, although they may be very poor-looking, and perhaps, badly clad, sure I am that the peasants of Ireland have independent and sensitively-organized minds, and that they are just as capable of, and suitable for, moral and social improvement as the most favoured people on the face of the earth. But there is the mistake which the hon. Gentleman makes. The people of Ireland are beginning to think for themselves; they are beginning to have that just and legitimate confidence that they ought to have in the honesty, integrity, and energy of their landlords. In those few days that I travelled through Ireland, I had an opportunity of seeing how well the great properties in that country are managed, and the efforts which are being made to advance the prosperity of Ireland. Properties such as that of the Marquess of Downshire came under my observation, that of Earl Fitzwilliam, of the Earl of Bessborough, of the Earl of Lucan—particularly of Mr. Allen Pollock, of Mr. Pike, of Viscount Palmerston, and many others, whose energy, determination, and example have, I will say, regenerated Ireland from the condition in which she was before. The hon. Gentleman alluded to the state of things existing at Kanturk. I am sorry to say that in parts of Ireland in which famine is complained of—in parts
 84
 SIR ROBERT PEEL:  Of course I did not mean to impute any improper motives to the hon. gentleman, but he certainly said that I had travelled 300 miles in three days.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : Sir, one of the allegations contained in the speech of the hon. Member who has just resumed his seat was that I, in my capacity of Chief Secretary for Ireland, have led the people of England to believe that there is no distress in the sister country. Sir, until the hon. Gentleman rose I had hoped that on this, the first night of the Session, hon. Members might have confined their remarks to the contents of Her Majesty's Speech, and not have entered into subjects such as those to which he has alluded. I must say that after listening to the remarks of the hon. Gentleman, I am, from my personal knowledge and conviction, inclined to believe that the great majority of the people of Ireland, who very well know what the real state of the case is, will be disposed to agree with me, that we must not attach more weight than they deserve to his observations. I, for one, should be inclined to state that he has gone further, and said more than the justice of the case required. When the hon. Gentleman alluded to what he called the famine in Ireland, painting and delineating most hideous suffering, and stating that the people of Cork, though starving, would not go into the workhouse, I listened to his remarks with attention, but I was amazed at the inaccuracies into which he fell. I have no doubt the hon. Gentleman spoke with a firm conviction of the truth of his statements. I should wish to be the very last man in the House who would question the honesty of purpose of the hon. Gentleman. I believe that his mind is not closed to conviction, and, were there now an opportunity, that he would accept the facts which I could adduce in complete refutation of the statements he has made. Now, I do not for one moment deny that during the last few months there has been very considerable distress in Ireland. I admit that the potato crop has failed; that it is watery, that the root itself is
 81 82
 SIR ROBERT PEEL:  I will adopt the hon. Gentleman's words. I say that on former occasions attempts were made to excite sympathy by saying that "great distress, misery, and destitution" prevailed in Ireland. Those attempts succeeded; but on this occasion the persons endeavouring to propagate that opinion have signally failed. The real truth is that the people in Ireland have not taken up the cry. They do not believe in the reports of distress which are spread abroad; and I know of my own knowledge that nothing has been more distasteful to the people of Ireland than to have—as they have had within the last few months—their alleged grievances and imaginary wants placarded and paraded over Europe. Why, the House will hardly credit it when I tell them that the begging-box has been sent round through France and America, though, as regards the result, I believe it has been very much like the victories of the Federal army, which are very much talked of, but
 83
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON:  Sir, I rejoice, and I think the country will rejoice, that the Address which has been so ably moved and seconded by my hon. Friends behind me will this night be unanimously adopted by the House, without any proposal which at all interferes with the general sense which the House entertains of the topics to which it relates. The right hon. Gentleman, however, who has just
 72 73 74 75 76
 MR. PORTUMAN   brought up
 ADMIRAL WALGOTT:  Sir, the few observations which I have to offer will be made in my Capacity of a naval officer. While I thoroughly, heart and spirit, sympathize with the outburst of patriotic feeling which attended the removal of the Southern Commissioners from the sanctuary of the deck of a British vessel, and the protection of the British colours, I cannot view that event entirely with regret. Not only has it proved the immunity which we have claimed for our flag, but it has elicited such a grand manifestation of hearty indignation that it will be long before any nation will indulge in England's decrepitude. Not only this; that magnificent colony which abuts on the borders of the United States, has found an occasion of expressing spontaneously its loyalty, fidelity, and love for the mother country in a manner which proves its reality, and must confound any who have erred in their estimate of the true sympathies of Canada. There is one subject nearer home which demands our warm recognition—need I say, that I allude to that gratifying exhibition of zeal, and those proffers of services which were made by the naval reserve of this kingdom. At no time have we had a navy more complete in equipment—never so capable of being manned not only without pressure, but with eager demands to be employed in the service of their country. That exhibition of our Naval Volunteers will be never forgotten. I think any amount of mere money was well devoted when our navy was rendered, I had almost said invincible—and I do say, with the blessing of the Almighty, it is invincible, when science has rendered our ships invulnerable, and the patriotism of its seafaring population places crews of volunteers at our disposal sufficient to man a fleet in numbers and spirit at a moment's notice. Such events, I think, should not incline us to regret the affront of the  Trent 95 —" both parties nobly are subdued; And neither party loser."
 LORDS COMMISSIONERS' SPEECH  to be taken into consideration on  Monday
 MR. NEWDEGATE  expressed his regret that the hon. Member should think it necessary to re-introduce this most obnoxious measure, which had hitherto been invariably rejected by a majority of at least two to one. He should have thought, after the distinct expression of opinion by the House, that the hon. Member would not have further trespassed upon its patience. The hon. Gentleman, however, was prepared to ask them again to reverse the whole course of legislation adopted on this subject for the last 32 years, in order to enable persons who were invested with corporate powers to use them against the Church of England, which was one of the great institutions of the State. No one could really doubt that the subject had been already sufficiently ventilated; therefore, he trusted the House would not even sanction the introduction of the measure, the more especially as they knew very well that even if it passed this House it was not likely to become law; but in all probability would only promote differences between the two branches of the Legislature, upon a subject with respect to which no public interest whatever had been excited.
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in consenting to the introduction of the Bill, desired not to be understood as assenting to the principle that corporeal punishments could in all cases be abolished. The disturbances in the Chatham prison last year showed that it was necessary that the power should be reserved. He believed there were instances when whipping might be advantageously practised. He admitted that from the returns laid before Parliament last Session it was evident that a great diversity of punishment prevailed in different gaols, and he had instituted inquiries upon the subject: with a view to explain the matter to the House.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he had himself given notice of his intention to bring in a Bill on this subject on an early day. Under these circumstances, perhaps, the hon. and learned Member for the King's County would wait and see whether the provisions of that Bill did not meet his own views.
 MR. HENNESSY  observed, that the Bill which he proposed to introduce had already received the sanction of the House. In the Session of 1860 he had the honour of submitting the two clauses of which his Bill consisted, and on three divisions the House agreed to them. He understood from the right lion. Gentleman the Chief Secretary for Ireland that the Government proposed substantially to accept his clauses; but, as he believed there was some difference between the Government clauses and those of his Bill, he hoped that, in accordance with the courtesy usually extended to hon. Members, the right hon. Gentleman would not oppose the present Motion.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that, as a matter of courtesy, the Government would I
 102
 MR. HENNESSY  remarked, that if leave were given him to bring in his Bill, he would take care that its second reading should not take precedence of that of the right hon. Baronet's measure.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, there was one paragraph in the Royal Speech, that alluding to Morocco, to which, as he had brought the subject forward last Session, and as it happened to fall to his lot to take part in the matter, he wished to refer. He appealed to the Government last year to take some steps to put an end to the very unsatisfactory state of affairs which then existed. At that time the Spanish Government had possession of
 96 97
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he had heard with much pleasure the announcement of the hon. Member for Gal way that he intended to call the attention of the House to the question of the efficiency of the blockade of the Southern ports. He thought there were two questions involved in this matter; the first, its bearing on our commercial interest, the second its bearing on our national honour and the rules of international law. With respect to our commercial interests, he would say nothing at that moment; but it appeared perfectly clear that if his hon. Friend was able to substantiate the statement which he had shadowed forth to the House, and showed that the blockade had been practically nothing but a paper blockade, undoubtedly in that case the character of this country would to a great extent be involved by its recognition. He believed it was admitted on all hands that the recognition of a paper blockade would be a violation of the rules of international law, and in that case, assuming, for the sake of argument, that It could be shown that it was really a paper blockade only, what became of the principle of non-intervention of which they had heard so much?—because, unless it could be shown to have been perfectly effectual, it appeared to him that its recognition was for all purposes, and, in every sense of the word, an act of intervention on the part of this country in favour of the Northern States. It appeared to him that it was necessary for her Majesty's Government to show that there was no foundation whatever for the assumption put forward by his hon. Friend that the blockade had not been effective. Taking that view of the subject, he was extremely glad that his hon. Friend intended to bring the subject forward for discussion.
 MR. BARROW  said, it was with much regret that he heard it was intended to reintroduce this Bill. After the opposition so generally expressed with regard to it last year, and without anything which could be called an expression of public opinon in its favour out of doors, he had trusted they should hear no more of it. The tendency of the Bill was to deparochialize England by destroying those local authorities who had hitherto exercised some important functions, and to remove from the parishes the right of local government in almost the only instance in which it yet existed, and therefore to set aside a material and important element of the Constitution of the country. The Bill proposed to remove from the parishes the control they had hitherto exercised over their own finances, and to transfer it to a body not elected by the vestries, but mainly nominated by the Crown; for although each parish was to have its own way warden, still that functionary was to exercise no real power over the acts of the Board. In most parishes the rate levied for the purposes of these roads was equal to the tax imposed under the two schedules of the Property-tax, and the Bill proposed to transfer to the new Boards additional powers in this respect; so that an immense power would be placed in the hands of those who were to control that amount of taxation. The majority of the landed property of this country would, consequently, be virtually placed under the control of a very small minority in point of numbers, and certainly not a majority in point of value of the landowners. The measure would be a violation of the rule, which was now recognised as one of the fundamental principles of our Government, that the people should only be taxed and the expenditure should only be authorized by themselves or by their representatives. As such he should strongly oppose it. I Leave given.
 MR. GREGORY  said, he had been unwilling on the preceding evening, on the occasion of the Address, to introduce any subject which could have given rise to a debate. But there was one topic which was on the lips of every one, and which
 93 94
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in moving for leave to bring in a Bill for the better management of Highways in England, said, the subject, unfortunately, was by no means a new one to the House, and therefore, in introducing a measure which very much resembled its predecessors, he did not propose to say anything which could give rise
 98 99
 MR, ALGERNON EGERTON  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he intends to introduce, during this Session, any Bill in relation to the Allowances to Witnesses at Sessions and Assizes?
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, he placed on the paper notice of a question as to when the Lucknow Prize Money would be distributed, but that the telegrams which had appeared in the papers that day had answered the question, by informing them that it was about to be distributed immediately. He desired, however, to ask when the Kirmee prize money would be distributed?
 Mr. SHERIDAN  said, he rose to second the motion. He expected from what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman lately, the Secretary for the Home Department last Session, that his successor would have brought forward a well-matured plan. For thirty years a few adventurers—a few companies trading for their own benefit— had been left to protect the metropolis against fire. It was now time for the Go
 130
 MR. LAYARD  replied, that the papers on the subject to which the question of the hon. Gentleman referred were being prepared, and would, he hoped, be upon the table on an early day.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  stated, that the subject was under consideration. The French troops were entitled to a portion of the prize money, and it was not as yet decided what portion our troops were entitled to.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, as far as the Government were informed they had no reason to suppose that any such memorandum had been issued. The only possible foundation for the statement, as far as he could judge, was that certain memorials had been received in full, and there were others identical in their nature, which the Commander-in-Chief did not think necessary to transmit  in extenso
 MR. BENTINCK  said, his hon. Friend the Member for Evesham (Sir Henry Wil-loughby) had told the House that in 1815 so odious and detestable was the income tax that all the documents connected with it were ordered to be burnt. He might with truth have added that the same feelings towards it were entertained in 1862; but whether it would be advisable to take the same proceedings with respect to the documents he would not say. The hon. Baronet had spoken of what he happily termed speculative surcharges, which appeared to him (Mr. Bentinck) to involve a most objectionable system. A speculative surcharge, in fact, amounted to this, that in the collection of the income tax an imaginary value was put upon certain property or income, with the chance that that over-valuation might not be disputed, and thus a man might be mulcted in that which he could not be fairly called on to pay. During the recess his attention had been called to another grievance of a serious character. He was told that in cases where persons had appealed against what was justly called speculative surcharge, they had been called upon to pay a fee to the legal functionary who conducted the investigation. Thus the monstrous injustice was imposed upon them, first, of having to defend themselves against an overcharge, and next, of being compelled to pay for so doing. He hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would deny his statement if he (Mr. Bentinck) had been misinformed, and otherwise that he would take the trouble to have some inquiries made on the subject. He did not mean to say that such had been uniformly the practice; but in the metropolis and in other parts of the country, he believed it had prevailed. The right hon. Gentleman had told the House that the difficulties complained of were inherent in the tax. He (Mr. Bentinck) quite agreed with the right hon. Gentleman, but it was a singular admission for the Chancellor of the Exchequer to make. Some years before, the right hon. Gentleman had expressed his reprobation of the tax, though he had since advocated the removal of other taxes less obnoxious. He hoped that when the income tax was under discussion at a future period the right hon. Gentleman would remember what he had just said as to the inconveniences that were inherent in that tax. The right hon. Gen-
 129
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, he would beg to ask, Whether any communications have been received with reference to the efficiency of the blockade of the Confederate ports established by the Northern States, and if so, whether such papers would be laid on the table?
 MR. HOPWOOD  said, he wished to ask, Whether it was the intention of the Government to deal with the question of Church Rates this Session?
 Mr. HANKEY  said, he rose to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the existing state of Legislation and of any existing arrangements for the protection of life and property against fires in the metropolis. He should have preferred, however, to have seen Government taking this step. When at a late period of the previous Session, he expressed his opinion that there was a necessity for inquiry on the subject he received an assurance from his right hon. Friend, then Secretary of State for the Home Department that he considered it to be one well deserving of attention. Having on that occasion stated the grounds on which he thought inquiry necessary he should not repeat them, more especially as he believed the Committee would be conceded. To show the necessity for legislation on the subject, it was sufficient to mention that the law as regarded London remained in the state it was in the year 1774. When they remembered the enormous increase in size of the metropolis and in the value of property since that time, it would appear extraordinary that London should be the only town left without any municipal arrangement or any Act of Parliament that was available to prevent the great risk and damage from fires. The hon. Member concluded by moving for the Committee.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER:  I have to ask for leave to bring in a Bill relating to two points, neither of which is altogether new, nor will the Bill create any difficulty in the practice of this House. The first provision is one to amend an Act of last year with respect to the issue or rather the reissue of what are termed Supply Exchequer bills. The necessity for this provision arose from the Act of last year. The principle on which these Exchequer bills are issued is this— that they are capable of reissue within the period of their currency, if they come hack into the hands of the Government. Formerly the period of currency was one year only, and consequently any reissue of Exchequer bills under the powers given by law only affected the finances of a single year, and was a matter only capable of being taken in view by the House at the time when the Bill for the annual issue of Exchequer bills was brought under the notice of the House. But last year we passed an Act of, I think, a very beneficial character, under which Exchequer bills are not renewed from year to year. Although the interest is, as before, paid annually, the instrument and the Bill itself will have a currency of five years. It was justly observed last year by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Henley) that the power of reissue under the old law ought not to be extended over a period of five years, because it might so happen that a very large number of Exchequer bills might be taken up and accumulate in the hands of the Government, and that it might be in the power of the Government, before the five years were expired, to make a large reissue of these instruments of public credit without the direct control or cognizance of Parliament. I propose to re-establish the provision of the old law, and to limit the power of reissue to the year within which the bills shall be issued or paid in. The effect will be to apply the principle of the old law to the amended law now in force. The other provision of the Bill relates to a subject
 132 133
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I entirely agree with the hon. Baronet with regard to the importance of the question that he has brought under the notice of the House; but, at the same time, I think it is too important, and certainly too complicated, to allow of its being advantageously disposed of by a merely incidental discussion, but that it may well deserve a more distinct and detailed consideration on the part of this House. However, the hon. Baronet has put to me a question which I shall not decline to answer, while I shall at the same time notice in a very few words the more general statements he has made. In the first place, there is the question how far abuse and grievance prevail in the collection of the income tax; and, in the second place, there is the question as to who is responsible for the collection, and to whom the taxpayer should look in any case where he
 124 125 126 127 128
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for India, What foundation there is for a statement, received from Madras, that the Madras Government is circulating a Memorandum in the Madras Army that the Memorials of Officers to the Secretary of State for India on grievances arising out of the Amalgamation Scheme would not be forwarded  in exlenso
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that in the year 1858 a scale of allowances to witnesses in criminal trials at assizes and sessions was promulgated, which had been prepared, after full consideration, by the officers of the Treasury and Home Department. Great objection was made to that scale, which was a uniform one, on the ground that it operated differently in different parts of the country, and the right lion. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Walpole) who succeeded him (Sir G. Grey) at the Home Office, issued a Commission which was directed to consider the question along with other matters. The Report of that Commission, which was presided over by his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, and comprised the hon. Baronet, the Member for Somersetshire, and the hon. Members for Kent and Macclesfield, substantially confirmed the scale with reference to the payments by the Treasury; but they admitted that there had been cases where the scale might not be sufficient in certain parts of the country, and they recommended that the magistrates in the counties referred to should have power to increase the allowances, provided that such extra expense were defrayed out of the county rates and not by the Treasury. A Bill was brought in last Session by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of War (Sir George Lewis) to give effect to that recommendation. But it was brought in
 121
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that it was not the intention of the Government to propose any Bill on the subject.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, it was agreed last Session that this was a very fit subject for inquiry before a Parliamentary Committee, and he should give his ready assent to the motion. It was, however, entirely distinct from the subject of fire insurance, and it would be desirable for the Committee to keep clear of that question. No pledge had been given last Session that her Majesty's Government would prepare a measure for taking out of the hands of the London fire offices the regulation of the means which were in operation for the extinction of fires. But when the House remembered that the law had not been changed since 1774, which imposed upon parishes the obligation of keeping a fire-engine—an obligation which in all but a few cases was most inefficiently performed—there was room for inquiry whether some change in the law was not called for under the altered circumstances of the present day. His right hon. Friend (Sir George Lewis) promised last year that the Government would ascertain during the recess what arrangements were in force elsewhere for extinguishing fires. He had! obtained a complete statement of the measures taken in Paris for this purpose, and, although many of these arrangements were inapplicable to London, they might suggest some improvements that deserved consideration by the Select Committee. It was impossible not to bear testimony to the very efficient character of the Fire Brigade of the metropolis, which, under the management of Mr. Braidwood, who lost his life in the courageous discharge of his duty, reflected much credit upon the fire offices, and was productive of much advantage to the public. Still it could not be forgotten that the offices had a direct interest in keeping up the Fire Brigade in an efficient state for the protection of property, for the destruction of which by tire they would have to pay. He was glad to assent to the appointment of the Com-
 131
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  observed that as far as he could judge the measure was one of a beneficial character. He however, regretted it did not go further. As he understood the important principle of the Bill was that there should be no change made in the unfunded and the funded debt, without the authority of Parliament. It appeared to him that that was a sound principle, and one which should be at once agreed to. Some years ago he contended that the Government could create a funded debt by such operations as those referred to by the right hon. Gentleman, and he was put out of court by a flat denial. The Committee, however, would deceive itself if it thought that the funding of Exchequer bills could not take place in another way than that described, He alluded to the mode in which Exchequer bills held by savings banks could be funded. Unless, therefore, the right hon. Gentleman dealt also with those bills, and brought all within the cognizance of Parliament, he would not have completely disposed of the question. When, however, he had the pleasure of seeing the measure of the right hon. Gentleman he should be better able to form a sound judgment upon it. He was very glad to find the right hon. Gentleman resolved to legislate on the subject.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, that he did not rise to oppose the Motion for granting Supply, being well aware that it was necessary to have a very large one. During the last three years the House had been compelled to vote £212,000,000 for public purposes, and although it was true that there was no war pressure, and that therefore the Supply would not be so large as in previous years, yet there were one or two points to which attention ought to be called at this early stage. One of those points which he wished to press on the attention of the Government was, that whatever might be the amount of Supply required, taxes ought not to be levied in such a manner as to unduly press upon or harass the taxpayers; and the other, which he was not then going to enter upon, was that the supplies, when raised, should be expended with judgment and economy. With regard to the first of these points, he had received information from large bodies of taxpayers stating that they had been subjected to great vexation and annoyance by the manner in which the income tax had been assessed and collected, and he wished to ask the Government who was responsible for the fair and just conduct of the numerous officers employed in the collection of the income tax—the surveyors, inspectors, assessors, and collectors? He would not have put that question unless he was convinced that there were serious grievances oppressing the taxpayer, and he must say that he thought the taxpayers were not always sufficiently considered in discussions upon taxation in the House. The last accounts from India showed that there was something like an income tax rebellion in a portion of our territories, and he hoped the House would take care that something of the kind was not got up in this country. He verily believed that at the present moment the strongest feeling of dissatisfaction existed in the country in respect to the manner in which the income tax was collected in this country; and he greatly feared that if the Chancellor of the Exchequer did not take care, he would run the risk of becoming the most unpopular man in the kingdom. The law was very difficult to get at in respect to the income tax; and if the taxpayers wished to know what remedies they ought to take when they were aggrieved, they were obliged to have recourse to an Act of Parliament containing 194 clauses, and then they
 123 d d
 MR. DAWSON  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether it was the intention of the Government to introduce, during the present Session, any measures for effecting a proper registration of births, deaths, and marriages in Ireland, and for the alteration of the present law affecting the solemnization of marriage in that part of the United Kingdom?
  MR. LEWIS  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether his attention had been directed to the recent murder of Mr. Wincott, in South Street, Manchester Square, and to the investigation consequent thereon at the Marylebone Police Court on Wednesday, the 5th of February; and, if so, whether he intended to make any inquiry into the reasons which induced the presiding magistrate to sentence four of the men aiding
 135
 THE COMPTROLLER OF THE HOUSEHOLD   reported 136
 MR. WHITE  rose to move
 "That so soon as the Estimates are ready, one night in each week be given to their consideration; Motions on going into Committee of Supply not being permitted on that day, except by special order of the House." 137 "The House would, therefore, he hoped, at the beginning of the next Session see reason to agree to the first Resolution, the adoption of which would not, he thought, unduly infringe on the rights of the private Members." [3  Hansard "In all the improvements we have endeavoured as much as possible to let the House understand exactly what questions they will have to discuss, and to prevent surprises, and also to give some certainty to our proceedings." 138 139 140 "So far from opposing the demands of the Crown, the House of Commons have rather laid themselves open to the charge of a too facile an acquiescence in a constantly increasing expenditure. The people may have some grounds for complaining of their stewardship, but assuredly the Crown and its Ministers have none. " 141
 MR. W. WI LLIAMS  said, that the hon. Gentleman objected to the Motion because he thought it was opposed to the constitutional principles of the House. Now, in his (Mr. Williams') opinion the House of Commons had no more important duty to perform than that of examining into the public expenditure, and seeing that the taxation of the country was properly applied. But this duty was at present anything but efficiently discharged, through the want of proper time to discuss the Votes in Supply. Every Supply night they saw ten, or fifteen, or twenty Motions on the paper which were entitled to take precedence of Supply. And what was the character of these Motions? Why, they interested no one except those who brought them forward? He had known instances of these Motions occupying the House until midnight, when some Member of the Government proposed to go into Committee of Supply on the Army Estimates. When objections were made to going into Supply at so late an hour, it was not unusual to be told that unless the House agreed to the number of men the Mutiny Bill could not be passed in time. Then, when the number of men had been agreed to, it was said, "What! can you object to pay them? "The House might almost as well pass the whole of the Army Estimates, amounting to £14,000,000
 147
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS:  The right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down put the point at issue before the House very fairly when he said that the question was whether the adoption of the rule proposed would or would not facilitate the free and ample discussion of the Estimates. Upon that issue I am perfectly willing that this question should be tried, and I submit my opinion to the House, that the adoption of this rule would facilitate that discussion. Some of those Gentlemen who take the greatest part in those discussions have expressed an opinion that our rules should be altered in the manner pointed out, and I concur with them in that opinion. I will shortly state my reasons. I think it must be admitted that it is important that when the House makes orders for the con-
 152 153
 MR. WHITE  in reply said, that the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire had treated his Motion with a degree of asperity and harshness which was perfectly unjustifiable. The right hon. Gentleman was one of those gifted beings who could make an ingenious speech upon any subject whatever, and who could prove
 "—in reason's despite That right is wrong, and wrong is right. That white is black, and black is white."
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, it was not his intention to offer any opposition to the Motion of his hon. and learned Friend. The subject was one undoubtedly
 163
 MR. MONCKTONMILNES : The subject which I have the honour to bring before the House is one which does not require any lengthened introduction, and I believe I shall be likely to conciliate the good will of hon. Members on both sides by saying as little as possible upon it. Last year, when a similar measure was brought forward for a second reading an hon. Member opposite moved an amendment to the effect that it was impolitic to do anything which should increase the dissimilarity of the law of marriage in the three kingdoms. That amendment was carried by a majority of five, and, on consulting my friends as to whether it was desirable in the face of that decision to proceed with the Bill, I found it was generally thought, although the amendment was not strictly germane to the Bill, and although its adoption had not in any way defeated the second reading, that it would be better, in deference to the opinion of the House and in order to save time, not to press the Bill further. I acted upon that advice, and therefore, in bringing forward the Bill now I beg it to be clearly understood that last year it was not defeated upon the second reading, and that if the House should permit it to proceed to a Beyond reading this year that will be the first decision upon the question which has taken place in the present Parliament. It will be found that, in obedience to the decision of the House, I have made no difference in
 164 odium theologicum v 165 v
 MR. SOTHERON-ESTCOURT  said, that he wished to state, on the part of his hon. Friend the Member for Preston (Mr. Cross) that although, if encouraged to do so, he was ready to introduce his Bill of last Session, yet, in the absence of any such encouragement, it was not his present intention to lay it on the table. He wished to know if the present Bill was identical with that of the hon. Baronet the Member
 167
 SIR CHARLES DOUGLAS  said, he rose, in the absence of the hon. Baronet the Member for Tavistock (Sir John Trelawny), to move for leave to bring in a Bill to abolish Church Rates.
 SIR CHARLES DOUGLAS  said, he
 168
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  seconded the Motion.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the Law relating to the recovery of damages
 162
 MR. BRISTOW , in moving for leave to introduce a Bill to amend the Metropolis Local Management Acts, said, that the Bill that he asked leave to introduce was precisely similar to the Bill which passed that House during the previous Session, and which would have become law but for the late period at which it was sent up to the other House of Legislature.
 MR. DISRAELI:  Sir, I did not clearly understand whether the right hon. Gen-
 154 155 156 157 158 159
 MR. NEWDEGATE , in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to establish a Charge in lieu of Church Rates, for the Commutation thereof, and to afford facilities for the provision of other funds applicable to the purposes of Church Rates, said that the purport of the Bill was announced in its title. He would not then detain the House at any length upon the general scope of the Bill. The subject was one on which he had bestowed his best attention, and he should feel deeply in debted to the House if it would allow him to lay his plan in a regular and appropriate form before it.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  replied, that he had communicated with the Civil Service Commissioners with reference to this question, and they considered it absolutely necessary that the successful candidates should be submitted to medical examination by their officer in London. The examination must necessarily extend over several days, and the prize offered being very high he did not think this necessity could be regarded as any great hardship. The Secretary of State allowed £100 to each candidate for expenses, and they might fairly be called upon to defray out of that all the expenses of the journey.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, be rose to express the gratification he felt at hearing the announcement made by the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down— namely, that some distinct Amendment would be proposed for the settlement of this much-vexed question. Last year many hon. Members on both sides of the House had watched with anxiety for a settlement of that question upon moderate principles, and there was no doubt that if an opportunity were given, the fanaticism of the opposite side and the High Church feeling on his own side of the House would be left in a decided minority. He was in favour of a moderate system of church rates. He thought it unworthy of the party to which he belonged to meet the proposal of the Bill with a simple negative, without making a proposition in return, upon which an agreement might be come to. At present Dissenters could relieve themselves practically from the payment of church rates, and he hoped to see legislation ratifying that power.
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, the hon. Member for Lambeth seemed not to understand what the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary had said. The right hon. Baronet had given a satisfactory answer to the proposition of the hon. Member for Brighton, namely, that if his Motion were agreed to in its present form, it would not ensure the purpose or object which he had in view. That he (Mr. Baillie) thought was a satisfactory answer, and, therefore, he would
 148
 MR. PAULL  said, that on a former occasion, he ventured to propose that with one class of the Estimates the rule of "progress" should apply; but he confessed that he had been converted by the arguments brought forward in that House, and he now ventured to oppose the Motion of the hon. Member for Brighton. The right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department had expressed himself favourable to the Motion in a modified shape; but notwithstanding the high authority of the right hon. Baronet he could not but think that it would be very inexpedient. In the first place, it would be an interference with an extremely valuable privilege possessed by the Members of the House; and in the next, it would be a departure from the principle laid down in the antiquated expression that grievance should precede Supply, which for so long a period had been a constitutional maxim of Parliament. It was either good or not good that that principle should be retained as a constitutional maxim: but the proposal of the right hon. Baronet was that this principle should be broken through. ["No!"] It was clear that if they once agreed that on one night in each week the House should go into Committee of Supply without any Motion for the Speaker leaving the chair, it would not be long before the same rule would be extended to every Supply night. The constitutional maxim to which he had referred had been upheld by successive Committees of that House. The question had been carefully considered by four Committees—by the Committee of '37; by the Committee of
 146
 MR. SPEAKER:  Before putting the Question, I beg to remind the House, in regard to one of its rules, that though, in the case of an unopposed Motion, it is by courtesy permitted that one hon. Gentleman may give a notice of Motion and then obtain the assistance of a friend to make the Motion, the rule does not prevail in regard to important or controverted questions. Therefore, if any hon. Member had made an objection to this Motion, I should have held the objection to be good. The hon. Member who gave the notice being absent, it was not in accordance with the strict rules of the House that the Motion should be made by any other hon. Member.
 MR. LOCKE  observed that since the introduction of the Bill in the previous year the report had been published of a very important Committee which had sat on the local taxation of the Metropolis. Amongst other questions which that Committee had considered was one connected with the Metropolitan Board of Works, and the mode of electing its members. It would be a moot point whether the Board represented the ratepayers at all, for it was elected, not by them, but by the vestries. It was true that the vestries themselves were chosen by the ratepayers, but the mode of election at second hand had been found defective in every case in which it had been adopted. He hoped, therefore, that during the progress of the Bill through the House either the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets or himself would be prepared to introduce provisions for establishing a direct representation of the ratepayers.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES:  With the single exception of extending to Scotland and Ireland, the Bill will be the same as last year.
 MR. COLLIER  said, he wished to move for leave to bring in a Bill to prohibit the payment of expenses of conveying Voters to the Poll in Cities and Boroughs. He would not say at that time anything of the merits of the measure except that it was based on the report of a Select Committee.
 169
 MR. WALPOLE :—The Bill will relax the law within the nearer degrees of affinity, but not where they are more remote. It will enable a person to marry his wife's sister, but not his wife's niece. Why is a man to be privileged to marry two sisters if a woman is not to be privileged to marry two brothers? Until that question is fairly answered, and while you are really making a different law for the two sexes, it is not enough to say that you are making the law uniform throughout the kingdom. I do not oppose the introduction of the Bill; but the objections I entertained to the former remain as strong to this measure. I hope the House will never sanction an alteration of the law like this, which I believe, not merely on political and religious grounds, but on moral and social grounds also, will tend very much to unsettle and deteriorate the moral feelings and the social habits or the people of this country.
 MR. WALPOLE :—The hon. Member who brought forward this Motion apologized for so doing; but, when that Motion was supported by the approving cheers of so many hon. Gentlemen, I am quite sure that the apology, instead of being needed, ought rather to be offered by those who are opposed to the Motion. Entertaining, as I do, a very strong opinion on this subject, I wish the House to be a little on its guard before it adopts any Motion affecting our course of procedure which may diminish that power of check and control which the unofficial Members of this House ought to have over the Executive. That is a main reason why I think we ought to preserve that which is, not the written, but the unwritten and prescriptive law and usage of this House—namely, that on all occasions when the Government desires to have money the unofficial Members of this House shall be entitled to put any question to the Government, to submit any point that may require an answer, to suggest any grievance that may require a remedy, and to have such assurances from the Government in respect to these matters before it grants the money which may enable the Government to bring the Session to a close before those matters are attended to. I quite agree with the hon. Gentleman who has
 149 150 151 Continued cries of "Hear, Hear!" accompanied these sentences
 MR. WALPOLE :—Sir, I am glad to learn one thing from the hon. Gentleman's statement, that whatever alteration he pro poses to make in the law of marriage he intends it shall apply to all parts of the kingdom. Nothing can be more inconvenient than that a marriage shall be legal in one part of the kingdom which is not so in another. I so far agree with the hon. Gentleman, therefore, that if any alteration is to be made in the law, that alteration should apply to the whole kingdom. At the same time I must tell him that this can by no means do away with the fundamental objection I entertain to the change which he proposes. Indeed, I cannot see that he has done anything whatever to
 166
 MR. W. EWART  seconded the Motion. Last Session he himself introduced Resolutions calculated to accomplish this very purpose, but it was an act of courtesy as well as of justice to give his hon. Friend on this occasion the precedence to which he was entitled. Every improvement in the conduct of public business was of great importance and value; and he believed the present Motion to be of a practical character. While insuring, to a certain extent, the transaction of public business by giving certainty to the time for taking it, it would have the additional advantage of securing to hon. Members who came down, on a day fixed by the Government, prepared to discuss particular propositions, the opportunity of being heard. Both the present Speaker, and the late Speaker, Lord Eversley, in their evidence before
 142
 MR. STACPOOLE  asked the Secretary of State for India, Whether it was considered necessary that the successful candidates for the Civil Service (India), residing in Ireland and Scotland, should be required, as heretofore, to remain several weeks in London, or to return thither from their respective places of abodes, to be inspected by a medical practitioner in London?
 SIR GEORGE GREY:  The hon. Gentleman for Brighton (Mr. White) has correctly stated what took place just before the close of the last Session of Parliament on this subject. In the first week of August the hon. Member for Dumfries submitted a string of Resolutions relating to the manner of conducting business in the House, and among them was the Resolution now moved by the hon. Member for Brighton. On that occasion I stated my objections to four out of the five Resolutions he proposed; but expressed, at the same time, my concurrence, not in the form, but in the substance of the other Resolution proposed by my hon. Friend, and now again submitted to the House. I thought it would conduce very much to the progress of a branch of public business, which I regard with him as one of the most important the House has to perform, if, on at least one day in the week, when Committee of Supply stood first upon the paper, it were known that the question of Supply would certainly be entered upon without the intervention of preliminary debates. I admit there is considerable force in what the hon. Member stated, that on many occasions these preliminary debates on the Order for going into Committee of Supply have lasted to a very late hour, and that after the House has been left in utter uncertainty as to the period at which these debates might end and when the attendance has become this, the Speaker has left the chair, the Chairman
 143 144 145
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied, that he knew nothing of the case except through the public papers. He presumed that the magistrate before whom the examination took place did not conceive the evidence sufficient to justify him in committing more than one of the men on the charge of murder. He (Sir George Grey) had not called upon him for his reasons. The hon. Gentleman had adverted to the fact of a coroner's jury having inquired into the cause of Mr. Wincott's death, and he was not aware until informed by him that that jury had returned a verdict of wilful murder. Under those circumstances, as the persons implicated would be brought to trial, it was obviously improper on his part to say anything in that House which might prejudice the case.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, it was the intention of the Government to introduce, in the course of the present Session, a Bill for the proper registration of births and deaths in Ireland. With regard to the registration of marriages, that question was under the consideration of the Government, and he had no doubt that upon an early day he should be able to state what course would be taken in regard to it.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON:  Sir, the right hon. Gentleman has discussed the question whether the Sessions of Parliament are too long or too short. Now, the natural feeling, I apprehend, on his side of the House is that it is desirable our Parliamentary Sessions should be long, while, so far as we who sit on these benches are concerned, we should no doubt prefer that they should be very short. Nor is it at all surprising that hon. Gentlemen opposite should, after the recreations of the recess, return with such views as the right hon. Gentleman has indicated as to the transaction of the public business. It is during the Parliamentary Session that the Opposition have it most in their power to control and criticise the conduct of the Government, to influence the march of public affairs, and to take that prominent part in the direction of the business of the country which fairly belongs to their eminent talents and position. If, however, we are to form our judgments of men rather from their actions than their language, we might, looking back to what happened towards the close of past Sessions, feel justified in coming to the conclusion that we on this side of the House are more tenacious and persevering and less sensible of the inconveniences of a lengthened Session than those who sit opposite to us, inasmuch as it usually happens that towards the close of the Session the benches which they occupy become very thinly tenanted, while the faithful corps on this side remains staunchly at its post. Indeed, so much is this the case that it is frequently made a subject of reproach to the Government that they are pressing forward measures of importance at a late period of the Session when they are backed by a strong
 160 161
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, he rose to ask the President of the Board of Trade, What steps have been taken to prevent the extension of sand deposit at the eastern entrance of Harwich Harbour?
 MR. NEWDBGATE  said, before the right hon. Gentleman answered the questions which had been put to him, he wished to refer to one point upon which he hoped that he should receive an answer. The right hon. Gentleman stated that Roman Catholic and Jewish denominations did not permit any examination into the religious matters taught in their schools; he then went on to state, as he (Mr. Newdegate) understood the right hon. Gentleman, that under the scheme which he proposed the schools of the Protestant denominations would not be examined in religion; but he further added that the Church of England schools would be examined on religious matters under the supervision of the two Archbishops of our Church. His (Mr. New
 250
 MR. KINNAIRD  expressed his entire concurrence in the observations which had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Disraeli). Within his recollection—and he had had the honour of occupying a seat in the House when the original measure was proposed in 1837—no more important matter had been brought before the House. It was one which, in his opinion, was worthy of the gravest consideration of Parliament. The new system seemed to him to be robbing Peter to pay Paul.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Sir, in answer to the question of the right hon. Gentleman, I have to state that we have received no official report whatever from the  Warrior "You will be glad to hear that we have had a continuation of gales of wind. The ship behaved very well—nothing strained—no accident. We found the mainyard slightly sprung, but we fished it at sea with iron fishes, and it is now as strong as ever." "The spring in the yard I do not consider has anything to do with the sailing or working of the ship." Warrior
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he understood the right hon. Gentleman to say, that there would be no loss on the part of the schools under the proposed system, and yet the estimate would amount to not more than £500,000.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, after the ample exposition of the right hon. Gentleman I wish to recall the House to the proper relation in which the House stands to that statement, and to the course which I think we ought to pursue respecting it. This statement ought to have preceded the introduction of the Revised Code, and had it, according to the custom of Parliament, so preceded the introduction of the Code, I apprehend that the House would have pursued the course which it always and wisely takes when a Minister of the Crown makes an important statement upon the affairs of his Department;—it would have felt it inconvenient on that occasion immediately to discuss the merits of the proposition or to enter into judgment upon its scope and effect. It is obvious that, under any circumstances, a subject of this kind, involving principles so important and details so multifarious, requires, and it is only respectful to the Government that it should receive, ample consideration. I am therefore somewhat surprised that, remembering the peculiar circumstances under which the operation of the Revised Code was arrested in its pro-
 243 244 245 246 247 248 249
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, what he wanted to know was whether, where the inspection was extended to religious subjects, the failure on the part of any school in proficiency upon those subjects would be followed by the same penalties under the new Code as were attached to failures in reading, writing, and arithmetic.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that no guarantee had been or was intended to be given by the British Government. The Bill merely authorised the transfer of India Stock in the same way as other stock.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, he wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce any Bill for the consolidation and amendment of the law relating to joint-stock companies?
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he had to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether, in consequence of the repeated recurrence of railway accidents, it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce, during the present Session, any measure founded on the Report of the Committee on Railway Accidents which was laid upon the table of the House in 1858?
 Mr. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, he would beg leave to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether with reference to the recent calamitous accident at the Hartley Coal Pit, he has received any information from the inspectors of mines with reference to the necessity of there being two shafts to each working mine; and whether his attention has been drawn to the verdict of the Jury at the coroner's inquest at Newcastle, and the recommendation contained therein, that all working collieries should have a second shaft or outlet, and the further recommendation with reference to the beams of colliery engines being made of malleable instead of cast metal; and further, whether it is his intention to take any, and what,
 189
 MR. LOWE , having brought up certain papers on the Education Minute, on moving that they do lie on the table, said, * 192 193 194 s. 195 196 "I do not think it was intended by those who in 1839 commenced this system that its plan should he such as to pervade the whole country; on the contrary, the object was rather to create models of teaching, and to exhibit such improvement in the mode of education that the obstacles which stood in the way of a national system might in the process of time he removed, and a scheme propounded for which experience might be said to presage success." in limine 197 198 199 200 201 202 "It appears that even in the best schools only one-fourth of the boys attain the highest class, and are considered by the inspectors to be successfully educated." "That they (the schools under the Privy Council) have not yet succeeded in educating to any considerable extent the bulk of the children who have passed through them, is true." 203 "That three-fourths of the scholars above 7 and under 9 years of age, three-fourths of those above 9 and under 11, and three-fourths of those above 11 and under 13 respectively, pass such an examination before her Majesty's Inspector, or Assistant Inspector, as shall be set forth in a separate minute of details." 204 205 206 a priori 207 s s s d s d s s d s s s s d s d s d s d s s d s d s d s d s d s d 208 minimum maximum "That the whole scheme of Education in the schools was settled, the school books were prepared, and, above all, the teachers were trained, upon suppositions as to the age of the pupils and the opportunities which would be afforded for instructing them which the facts have not sustained." 209 "The main and most striking facts are these:—There is an increase of above eleven per cent. in the very young children,  i.e 210 s s "Independence is of more importance than education, and if the wages of the child's labour are necessary either to keep the parents from the poor-rates or to relieve the pressure of severe and bitter poverty, it is far better than it should go to work at the earliest age at which it can bear the physical exertion than that it should remain at school," 211 212 Imperat aut servit "This Revised Code is a most convincing evidence to teachers how much lower and weaker their position in the country is than it ought to be; for in no other profession, we believe, would an attempt have been made to interfere so violently without the concert and advice of the members of the profession itself. It is clear that a vast amount of prudent, persevering, and united action on our part is required before this can be remedied.' "If teachers remain quiescent now, they deserve all, and more than all, the indignities heaped upon them. If they do not now rise, they deserve to be for ever fallen. We earnestly trust that they will take the earliest opportunity of enlightening their Members of Parliament on the bearings of this question. Teachers in general, we believe, stand pretty much aloof from politics. Whether this be a correct course in the main, it will stand them in good stead at present, for they can the more easily approach men of all shades of political opinion. Their numbers, position, and influence, are such as to lend to their remonstrances a large amount of weight. A goodly proportion of the 9,000 certificated teachers are possessed of the elective franchise. It is not likely that the friends of the 3,000 students and 15,000 pupil teachers will stand tamely by and see the prospects for life of those in whom they are interested so materially damaged; and the justice of our cause will insure us the support of large numbers in all ranks of the community. In these circumstances and in the present state of political parties, our case would almost certainly be gained if we could make it unmistakably understood that our votes and influence are for the men who aid us in this conjuncture, and that those who cannot see that we are threatened with foul wrong and injustice by this Revised Code never can be representatives of ours." 213 social status status Hoc voluerunt 214 215 216 "It never could be intended that the results should be the withdrawal of all assistance. Why should not the grant be made to depend upon five or six conditions instead of three—upon the state of the school premises and apparatus, discipline, and order, general knowledge, including moral and religious improvement, as well as on proficiency in reading, writing, and arithmetic?" "At one of the annual inspections we asked the Inspector to examine the children as they would be examined according to the Revised Code, and the result was—Group 1 (infants), 20 presented themselves, and none could read, write, or cipher; group 2 (7 to 9 years of age), six could read, none write, and none cipher; group 3 (9 to 14 years of age), three could read, none write, and none cipher; group 4 (highest class), none could read, none could write, and three could cipher. (Laughter.) The manager calculated that he would receive £5. You would naturally suppose that the report of the Inspector was unfavourable; but it was not so. He considered the school in a very fair state of efficiency, and that the master had done his duty during the past year." 217 "The managers of schools may claim per scholar I d 218 s 219 per se 220 221 222 "The Inspectors do not interfere with the religious instruction, discipline, or management of
 223 224 "Will lead managers to think that the financial condition of schools will be improved if less time be given to religious instruction and more to the three selected secular subjects—reading, writing, and arithmetic." 225 "But the greatest objection which has been raised still remains to be considered. It is strongly urged that the limitation of aid solely to the result of an examination in these three subjects must tend inevitably to secularize education and displace religious teaching from the position which it holds and ought to hold in our schools. The Committee say at once that if they thought such to be the object or effect of the Revised Code it should have their strongest opposition and condemnation; but they find that every guarantee which the Church possessed in this respect under the old code exists under the new. The compact entered into in 1840 is still in force; the provisions of the trust deeds are the same; the aided school must be either a school in connection with some religious denomination, or a school in which, besides secular instruction, the Scriptures are read daily from the authorized version; the Inspectors are to be appointed and removed under the same conditions; they are still, as before, in Church schools, directed to 'inquire with special care how far the doctrines and principles of the Church are instilled into the minds of the children;' and also 'to report upon the daily practice of the school with reference to divine worship;' 'whether daily instruction is given in the Bible, whether the Catechism and Liturgy are explained, &c.;' and it cannot be too often repeated that the amount of aid does not depend solely, as seems to be imagined, on the children's proficiency in reading, writing, and arithmetic, but is liable to special reduction, on the Inspector's report, for faults of 'instruction,' a term officially declared to include 'deficiency of religious knowledge.' They will add, further, that the religious teaching is still under the entire control of the clergy, an appeal to the Bishop in case of dispute being final; and, lastly, they must say that, even assuming that an additional responsibility is incurred, the Church should not shrink from accepting it, because in their judgment no graver imputation could be laid on her by her bitterest opponents than that she is reluctant or incompetent to undertake, without the interposition of the State, the charge especially committed to her care,—namely, the training of her little ones in the nurture and admonition of the Lord." 226 d s d maximum s s 227 "Even under the present conditions of school age and attendance, it would be possible for at least three-fifths on the books of the schools, the 63–7 per cent who attend 100 days and upwards, to learn to read and write without conscious difficulty, and to perform such arithmetical operations as occur in the ordinary business of life. This knowledge they might receive while under the influence of wholesome moral and religious discipline, and they might add to it an acquaintance with the leading principles of religion, and the rules of conduct which flow from them." s d s d s d d s d s 228 229 s s s d s d s 230 "This is the deadly spite that angers me, My wife can speak no English, I no Welsh." 231 "Boys who would otherwise go to work at mechanical trades at 12 or 13 years of age, are carefully educated at the public expense from 13 to 20 or 21, and they are then placed in a position where they are sure of immediately earning on an average about £100 a year by five days' work in the week, the days lasting only seven and a half hours, and they usually have six or seven weeks' vacation in the course of the year." "Masters of National Schools are generally dissatisfied; their salary is far beneath that which an equal amount of skill and labour would command in any other profession; their position in society is lower than it ought to be, which is the fault of the clergy, who either spoil the work by foolish interfering, or, if it succeeds, take all the credit; therefore, the cleverest men leave their schools as soon as they find more profitable employment. British schoolmasters share the grievance of insufficient salary, but are free from 'priestly tyranny.' They are dissatisfied with their position, principally because they fail in the good manners which would facilitate their rising to a better. Their dissatisfaction arises from what they deem insufficient remuneration. They are dissatisfied because their salary is quite inadequate to the position they are expected and qualified to maintain. … The certificate money being paid through the treasurer or secretary of the school comes to be considered as part of the master's salary. … The best teachers
 232 "They naturally think more of what education has made them than of what it first found them. They easily lose sight of the fact that they have risen from a very humble social position, and they crave for that  status 233 minimum 234 235 "As to the specific complaint that the augmentation grant is paid to them indirectly, and is thus liable to be confounded with salary, our answer is, that it is paid in that manner because it is salary, and in order that it may not be supposed to be anything else." 236 237 "The grant is withheld if the principal teacher be not duly certificated and duly paid. Teachers certificated before the 31st March, 1864, and who have not otherwise agreed with their managers, are duly paid if they receive not less than three times the grant allowable upon their certificates in Art. 64–5 of the Code of 1860, and they have a first charge to the extent of this grant, being one third of such due payment upon the money received by the managers under Art, 42 of the Revised Code." minimum minimum maximum 238 239 Hœc est conditio viventi 240 241 242
 MR. LOWE  said, the penalties will be these. If the Inspector reports that the religious instruction in a school is not satisfactory the grant is now withheld altogether; but if he reports that it is defective, Clause 47 of the new Code makes it lawful for the Committee of the Privy Council to withhold a portion of the grant, not less than one-tenth or more than one-half; and that power of a partial withholding is given now for the first time.
 MR. LOWE :  * 251 "It seems to me that it is quite possible to suggest a system which may do something to remedy these defects [those pointed out by the Commissioners]. What we propose to do will be embodied in a Minute, which will be laid on the table as soon as possible." "We propose, therefore, to give the capitation grant on the number of attendances of a child above a certain number, provided always that the school is certified by the Inspector to be in a fit state, and provided also there is a certified Master." "Having thus secured attendance, we propose to go a step further. We propose that an Inspector shall examine the children in reading, writing, and arithmetic. If a child pass on the whole, the full capitation grant will be given but if he fail in writing, for instance, one-third of the grant will be withdrawn; if he fail in both reading and writing, two-thirds will be withheld; while if he fail in reading, writing, and arithmetic, no portion of the grant will be paid." "I can hardly hope that I have made myself intelligible. The matter is one of considerable complexity, and I may be allowed to recapitulate the main features of our plan. We propose to give capitation grants on each attendance above a certain number—say above 100. We also require that there shall he a certified master; and, lastly, the grants will be subject to reduction upon failure in reading, writing, and arithmetic."—[3  Hansard 252 253
 MR. LOWE  said, in explanation, that in his speech last year, referred to by the right hon. Baronet opposite, he alluded to the fundamental principles of the Privy Council system as that which was to be maintained intact, because the same speech contained the explanation of a proposition for sweeping away certain annual grants; and the passage in his speech of to-night, which had been referred to, also alluded to those annual grants and not to the fundamental provisions of the system.
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, I wish to make one observation rather in support of the opinion expressed by my right hon. Friend the Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli), and also with the view of eliciting a more definite answer from the Government as to the mode in which this Minute is to be discussed. I agree with my right hon. Friend in thinking it would have been convenient if the Government had felt it expedient to name a specific time at which this great alteration should be deliberately considered and debated by this House. And not only should the time be fixed, but we may fairly ask that the change proposed should come before us embodied in such a shape that we may know what we are discussing. At present we only know two things—first, that grants are made in this House when we go into the Education Estimates upon a system known to and thoroughly understood by the country; secondly, that there is what is called a Revised Code laid on our table, which it requires some little care to compare with the existing system in order to discover the alterations it introduces and the points to which they extend. Then, there is this additional difficulty—occasioned by the statement, and the very proper statement, of the right hon. Gentleman to-night, putting the House in possession of the present views of the Government—namely, that the Revised Code is itself revised. I should be very glad if the Government can inform us in what shape the revision of the Revised Code is to be laid before us. [Mr. LOWE: It is on the table.] Then, I should also put it to the Government that it would be convenient if along with the Revised Code they would give us in parallel columns the system as they had it before, and the altered system as they will have it according to the proposition of the Government. That is not an unreasonable request to make. When the noble Earl at the head of the Foreign Office (Earl Russell)—no longer, unfortunately, a Member of this
 257 seriatim seriatim
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General would submit such a Bill.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that from the reports which had been made by the inspectors of recent railway accidents, it did not appear to the Board of Trade that any new circumstances had arisen during the past year which rendered the interference of the Legislature in the management of railways desirable. Therefore, it was not the intention of the Government as then advised to introduce any Bill on the subject. He might add, that although two very lamentable accidents had occurred during the past year, by which a number of lives were lost and several persons injured, yet the whole number of accidents in 1861 was less than in any year, except 1857 and 1858, since 1851, although the mileage for railway traffic had increased in that time some 50 per cent, and the number of passengers 100 per cent. In consequence of the Clayton tunnel accident, it was thought right to circulate among the railway companies an extract from Colonel Tyler's report on that accident. That report contained suggestions for the more efficient working the electric telegraph, and other modes of obviating
 190
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that the Government, impressed with the great importance of preventing Harwich Harbour from being injured by the silting up of the entrance, had ordered a survey to be made by a competent engineer, and a plan for amending the evil complained of was ready for adoption. But it had been thought that as Harwich and Ipswich would derive very considerable advantage from the outlay, they ought to contribute a proportionate share of the expenses. The Government was prepared to do its part, and if the two towns he had named came forward with their contributions they would enable the plan to be carried out.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he thought the question of the hon. Gentleman had been partly answered by the papers upon the subject which had been laid on the table of the House, containing a copy of a circular, addressed to the inspectors and the instructions to Mr. Blackwell. The report of Mr. Blackwell, when received, would, no doubt, be found to contain valuable information; and that information and any suggestions he might offer, together with the answers to the circular, would be carefully considered, with the view to the adoption of such measures as might appear practicable to prevent the recurrence of such a fearful loss of life as had occurred at the Hartley Colliery.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  observed, that when a Minute of the Education Committee was altered, the regular course was to lay the altered Minute on the table of the House, and then it would be open to any Member to object to that Minute or to any portion of it, and by a Motion for an Address to the Crown, or by some other mode, to take the sense of the House on the subject. This, indeed, was the proceeding contemplated to be adopted in another place by a noble Lord (Lord Lyt-telton) who has given notice of a string of Resolutions with respect to the Minute which had just been the subject of explanation. The Government would also be bound to come to the House for a Vote of money for the purpose of carrying on the new system; and this would afford another opportunity to any hon. Member to object to the proposed modifications.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, there was an impression abroad that as the dividends on India stocks were paid at the Bank of England, they were guaranteed by the British Government. Of course that was a mistake, but he hoped care would be taken to exclude from any Bill on the subject anything that would justify the idea.
 MR. CAIRD  wished to know if he understood the right hon. Gentleman, that while Scotland was exempted from the Revised Code, the present system was to be maintained?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, If there is any truth in the statements which had appeared in the newspapers as to the bad qualities at sea of Her Majesty's ship  Warrior 191
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, I have heard with satisfaction what has fallen from the right hon. Gentleman upon the subject of the complaint made by my right hon. Friend (Mr. Disraeli), and, as I think, not without reason. The right hon. Gentleman has now assured the House that he had no intention, by the mode of proceeding he has adopted, to take Parliament by surprise or to deprive it of the security which long practice had conferred upon it. I am convinced that a great part of that feeling in the country on this subject to which the right hon. Gentleman has referred has arisen from an impression, in which I confess I participated, that the course he pursued of laying the new Code upon the table upon almost the last night of the Session was not in consonance with that frankness and fair dealing towards the representatives of the people, which I am sure the noble Lord at the head of the Government always wishes to be practised. In 1852, when Lord Derby was in power, some changes of far less importance were proposed with regard to the existing Code, and the principle was then laid down and concurred in equally by Lord Derby and by Lord John Russell, that it was the duty of the Privy Council Department to take care that all Minutes should be communicated to Parliament to enable them fully to understand what was going on, not only before they were called upon to decide whether the contents of the Minute re-
 254 255 256
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the hon. and gallant Member moved for a return last Session which contained the materials for an answer to the chief part of the question which he had put. It was not intended that the Natives of India should compete for the office of army surgeons in the British army. In the returns to which he alluded there would be found a report from the Medical Board appointed last Session by the late Secretary of the War Department, in which the members of the Board gave it as their deliberate opinion that the native and mixed races of India and other tropical countries would never be able to sustain for any time the climate of northern regions, and therefore could not be employed with advantage to the public service in climates not similar to the is own. The consequence was, that it was not thought possible or advisable to open the office of army surgeon in the general army to Natives of India. With regard to the coloured British subjects in Canada, he hardly knew to whom the hon. and gallant Member referred—whether he referred to the red men in Canada, the aborigines, or the free blacks. He was not aware of any of those classes being in a position to be admitted to the rank of army surgeon.
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, that on behalf of his hon. and gallant Friend (Colonel Knox) he wished to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether the advertisement in  The Times
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that the question was founded upon the apparent misapprehension—namely, that barracks and militia stores were, in respect to the law, in the same position. It was the duty of the county to provide stores for the militia, but it was not their duty to provide barracks. It was a decision of Lord Panmure that in consequence of its being merely a voluntary act on the part of counties to provide barracks for the militia, the expense of repairs should be borne by the War Department. The advertisement, accordingly, referred merely to the repairs of county barracks, and not to militia stores.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he desired to ask the Secretary of State for War, When he expects to receive the Report of the Iron Plate Committee; and whether he intends to lay it upon the table of the House?
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  replied, that the question should have been properly addressed to his noble Friend the Secretary to the Board of Admiralty. He be-
 271
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that lately, during the alarm of hostilities with the United States, many very pressing and urgent applications had been made to the Government with respect to the undefended state of the Bristol Channel, and in consequence of those representations it had been decided to erect some batteries—he could hardly dignify them with the name of fortifications—upon the islands to
 272
 MR. COWPER  said, that he was afraid the approaches to the Exhibition were not likely to be altogether satisfactory. The approaches to the Exhibition from the east, south, and the west, would be through streets, some portions of which were not adequate for the ordinary traffic in summer, and he was afraid much inconvenience from the narrowness of those streets would be experienced by the multitudes who would throng to the Exhibition. He alluded particularly to the Brompton Road, the Kensington Road, and that very narrow portion of Park Lane, near its junction with Piccadilly. But it did not appear that the inconvenience was likely to be so great as to demand any special interference on the part of the Government.
 273
 MR. COWPER  said, that the enlargement of the National Gallery in Trafalgar Square had enabled the trustees to receive within the existing building the Turner Gallery, in strict fulfilment of the bequest of the late Mr. Turner, The consequence, however, was that the buildings in Trafalgar Square were so full that some arrange-
 274
 MR. COWPER : That forms part of the subject on which the Government have not yet come to a decision.
 MR. TURNER  said, that he wished, as being connected with another district the centre of an extensive trade, to state that the same feelings as those which the hon. Gentleman had just expressed existed in the cotton districts of South Lancashire. They were suffering great distress, and they were not without grievous fear that before many months that distress would be greatly heightened. They did not wish, however, that the Government should interfere in that lamentable contest which
 284
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty whether troops had been sent to America in the vessels  Adelaide Victoria 292 Adriatic Victoria 293 Adelaide Victoria Adelaide Victoria Parana Adriatic 294 Himalaya
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : I wish to state that the part of the hon. and gallant Member's Motion which relates to the correspondence between Major-General Lord F. Paulett and the War Office as to the  Adriatic 298
 COLONEL DUNNE  differed from the noble Lord and his colleague as to the propriety of withholding reports of complaints because they were deemed confidential, while he was sure no officer making them would shrink from their publication. On the contrary, he felt assured that more reports would be made by officers if they were made public, for in that case they might expect to obtain redress. If they did not wish publicity, why was he furnished with the information which he now brought before the House? At the same time, after the statements which had been made, and the refusal of the noble Lord and the Secretary at War to give the papers he moved for, and consent only to give the Reports of the Admiralty agents as to the state of the vessels when they last sailed, he would not press his motion, because he put no faith in the reports of men who must have deceived the Admiralty on the state of these ships when proceeding on their first voyage. If the noble Lord pledged his professional reputation and word that he was convinced that these vessels were in a fit state to carry out Her Majesty's regiments, and to risk the lives of so many brave men in them, he would himself prefer the word of his noble Friend to that of these Admiralty agents, and he thought the public would do so likewise.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, the roads of South Wales had been mentioned somewhat disparagingly, and he thought rather unfairly. He recollected when those roads were in a really bad state, but he wished to bear testimony to the improvement that had been made under the operation of Lord
 318
 MR. HENLEY  said, they had had Highway Bills so often before them, that it would be a curious thing to have a sort of  variorum 323 324 ratione tenurœ volenti non fitinjuria
 MR. HENLEY  said, the right hon. Gentleman's answer was so far satisfactory, and, no doubt, if the wording of the provisions was not clear, it would be made so in Committee.
 COLONEL DUNNE , in moving for a copy
 338
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he understood the hon. and gallant Member to say that the Crown had asserted certain illegal rights over the Curragh of Kildare; but he could not see the connection between that allegation and the returns he moved for, which were for the number of persons taken into custody for trespassing on the Common. The question was, whether it was a "common." That would be a question which, in the first instance, would be raised by the Crown. For his own part, he never heard of a trespass on a common, and therefore he could not see what would be proved by this return, supposing it were granted. The return would do nothing whatever towards settling the title of the Crown. That was a civil, not a criminal question, and must be decided by a civil tribunal—perhaps in the Court of Chancery. The number of these convictions averaged about twenty a day, which for two years would give about 12,000; therefore, instead of being a leaf out of a
 339
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he had no dispute with the military authorities; it was merely the illegal acts of the civil magistrates that he wished to have inquired into. He would withdraw his present Motion and renew it in another form.
 MR. HENLEY  thought, that if it were the fact that twenty cases of trespass a day were brought before the magistrates, the matter was too serious to be pooh-poohed simply on the ground that some 2,000 names would have to be given in the return.
 LORD ELCHO  asked, Whether in the event of any decision being come to, the plans would be laid on the table of the House before any steps were taken towards carrying them into execution.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he rose to ask the right hon. Gentleman the First Commissioner of Works, Whether there is any truth in the report that plans for a new National Gallery, to be erected on the Burlington House site, have been prepared, and that a vote for its erection is to be proposed to Parliament in the present Session; whether, in the event of such being the intentions of Government, the plans and elevation of the proposed building will be exhibited before any vote is proposed to Parliament; and whether any decision has been come to as to the purpose to which the present National Gallery is to be devoted.
 LORD ALFRED CHURCHILL  said, that in rising to put the question of which he had given notice to the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, it would be unnecessary to remind the House of the painful feeling excited by the horrible massacres which had taken place in Dahomey. Reports of similar cruelties continued to be received, though not on so extensive a scale, some twenty or thirty miserable captives being killed every two or three nights. A letter which he had received represented the King as being friendly to France, Spain, and Portugal, but hostile to England; and, being completely in the hands of the mulatto slave-dealers, it was easy to discover their motive for instigating the King to acts of barbarity. Their object was to drive away Englishmen, as they knew that if once they gained any influence in the country, the unlawful gains arising from the slave trade would be at an end. There was some ground for the belief that the present would be a favourable time for sending a British commissioner to Dahomey, and in any such mission he thought it would be well that commissioners from France, Spain, and Portugal should be invited to join, in order that he might see he could not really count on the support of civilized nations. The question was one of importance in a commercial sense. In the present distress arising from dearth of cotton, India was naturally looked to for supplies; but the shortness of the staple was such that, as compared with American cotton, our operatives sustained a loss in manufacturing it equal to 25 per cent. The African cotton approximated much more closely to the American than that which was obtained from India; some said it was even superior, but that could only be when superior cultivation had made it so. But, at any rate, by getting a supply from Africa, the wages of the operatives would virtually be increased to the extent of 25 per cent. The entire country from Dahomey to the Niger was one vast cotton field. The cotton plant was indigenous and perennial: consequently it did
 276
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he was willing to admit that if the rumours to which the hon. and gallant Gentleman alluded were in general circulation—a fact of which he was not aware—he had done perfectly right in bringing them under the notice of the House. He must, however, demur to the production of confidential reports of officers to the War Office and the Admiralty with regard to transports. Those two departments encouraged all their officers and agents, and also the military officers on board such vessels, to find fault with them whenever they had occasion to
 295 Adelaide Victoria Victoria Adelaide Adelaide Victoria 296 Adriatic Adriatic Adelaide Victoria
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  assented to do so.
 MR. BAILLIB COCHRANE  said, he wished to ask the hon. Gentleman the Member for the King's County, Whether he would be willing to postpone his motion for throwing open to competition the junior appointments of the Civil Service till a later period of the Session? The House was not yet in possession of the report for last year of the Civil Service Commissioners; and the postponement would like wise be convenient to several hon. Members.
 MR. LEFROY  said, that in his opinion also the subject was one of great importance to the prosperity of Ireland, and expressed his satisfaction that the measure had been brought forward at so early a period. He hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would meet with every assistance in passing it into law.
 MR. LEFROY  was in favour of an extension of medical relief, but would not wish to see the proposed power of rearing destitute children outside the house extended to the cases of children beyond the age of five years.
 MR. LAYARD  said, that the hon. Gentleman would see by the papers that had been laid upon the table of the House, that Her Majesty's Government were in possession of information with regard to the convention. He (Mr. Layard) believed it was the practice not to lay upon the table of the House treaties between Foreign Powers which had not been officially communicated. As this treaty had not been so communicated, it would not be laid on the table.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he entirely joined with the hon. Member for Bradford in urging upon the Government, that if any question was pending between this and foreign nations in relation to commercial treaties, or if there was any prospect of such treaties being contracted, the provisions of those treaties should be most carefully supervised, and that they should not be hurried so rapidly, as they were told by Earl Cowley, in his despatch of last year, that the provisions of the French Treaty had been; for in that case the official representative of this country in France had stated that he was unable to follow the details before the whole negotiation was completed. Every detail of a commercial treaty ought, on the contrary, to be well weighed, not only in reference to one or two interests to be affected by it, but in reference to all the interests of the country. It was only natural that he should take a different view of the operation of the French Treaty from that taken by the hon. Gentleman opposite. He scarcely thought that this question would have arisen, or he would have laid before the House details of suffering and distress, extending over two years, which had afflicted Coventry and the district adjoining—sufferings which had enlisted the benevolent consideration of Her Majesty, of many hon. Members of that House, and of the public, whom he sincerely thanked for their benevolence. It was very painful to see a prosperous trade struck down, and thousands of industrious men living from year to year upon the charity of the public. During several months of last winter 22,000 persons were depending for subsistence upon the bounty of the public. It was hoped that the pressure would cease, but for several months past as many as 14,000 had been so dependent, and were so still. It might be thought that the suffering was confined to the operative class; but of the manufacturers fifty out of eighty had been in the  Gazette 283
 MR. NEWDEGATE : I object to the formation of these Boards; and, believing that the real requirements of the case are exceedingly simple, I cannot vote for a Bill fraught with the dangers which the noble Lord opposite has described. Under the present system aged and infirm labourers are employed, and thus kept out of the workhouse, and farmers have an opportunity of occasionally employing their men and horses profitably. These are advantages which should not be lightly thrown away. It has been said that this Bill will ensure economy. It may create a saving in pounds, shillings, and pence, but with a waste of means which may effect a more real economy.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, that the Committee of last Session on the administration of the relief of the poor had, in their last Report, stated that they had not yet comprehended the whole subject of the inquiry, and recommended that it should be continued. Accordingly he begged to move that the Committee be re appointed.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : I am very glad that my hon. and gallant friend has put these questions to me. He implies rather than makes a charge against the Home Government, which has been made directly against us elsewhere, and it gives me an opportunity of stating what has been the conduct of the Home Government and of removing a fallacious impression which I know prevails with regard to it. I will not enter into a discussion as to what should be the European force in India, further than to remark that an overgrown Native army has cost the finances of India much more than the sum of £10 per man, which my hon. and gallant Friend calculates as the cost of a Native soldier. I think, therefore, that the Indian Government, with the entire concurrence of the Government at home, and of every man of sense, both here and on the spot, wisely determined upon reducing, very largely, the Native army and maintaining such a force of European troops in India as will insure us, as far as human precautions can insure us, against a recurrence of such a calamity as, unhappily, we have had to deplore. The charge is that we have forced upon India a larger number of European troops than the authorities of India thought necessary, and thereby thrown upon the finances of India a burden which ought not to have been imposed. I might content myself by simply stating that the charge is totally incorrect, and that it is not true that the fixed establishment of troops in India is exceeded by 9,000 men. But I do not think I should do justice if I did not state rather more fully what the conduct of the Government in India and of the Go-
 301 302 minimum 303 minimum 304 305
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he will name a day on which he would bring forward the Election Law Amendment Bill sufficiently early to secure a full opportunity of passing some Bill on that subject through both Houses of Parliament during the present Session?
 LORD FERMOY  was surprised that the right hon. Baronet should have said that nobody who had opposed the Bill that night had objected to its principle. Why, there was scarcely any of those hon. Gentlemen who had not objected to its principle. For himself, he strongly objected to it, and that on the ground of its tendency towards centralization. He did not say that the Bill boldly asserted the principle of centralization, but it took a step in that direction, and as those things always began by small degrees and increased in magnitude, he objected to it. The Bill proceeded practically to sweep away all local control. It was said that in the parochial system they had not uniformity; but if the advocates of uniformity should carry this Bill and create district boards, what means had they of enforcing uniformity? They would have to come to that House and seek to enforce uniformity by the establishment of a Central Board sitting in London. There would happen in this case what had happened in the case of the Poor Law; and he asked the Members for England would their constituents and the people of England be satisfied to place their local rates and roads under the power of a Central Board sitting in London? He thought they would view such a proceeding with the greatest repugnance. He had also a constitutional objection to the Bill, and did not think they should
 330
 MR. G. W. BENTINCK  said, there was one part of the noble Lord's answer which he did not quite understand—namely, that in which a distinction was attempted to be drawn between the propriety of laying on the table reports of the performances of these vessels, and what were called confidential Reports. It appeared to him (Mr. Bentinck) that when, as in the pre-
 297
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he rose to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce any measure in this House, or to take any steps for the purpose of putting a stop to the present manner of dealing, in this country and in Ireland, with British and French fishing boats captured for infringements of the convention of 1843?
 MR. HODGKINSON , in seconding the Motion, said, that when this subject was before the House two Sessions ago he ventured to state his objections to the Bill then brought in by the Government, many of which he perceived to be continued in the present Bill. He should not, therefore, trouble them with a repetition of his opinions in detail, especially as he had not seen any reason to change his mind since that time. He was free to admit that some objectionable features of the former Bill were not to be found in the present; but still he believed there was fault sufficient to be found with the measure now before the House. He could corroborate what had been said by the hon. Member who moved the Amendment as to the feeling which existed against
 311 312
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works what steps Government propose to take for rendering the International Exhibition more accessible; and whether any of them will require the approval of Parliament?
 MR. SPEAKER : The whole course of this proceeding is verging on irregularity. The notice of the hon. Member as it stands on the paper would have been irregular, for it is founded on a reference to a past debate. I pointed out that to the hon. Member, who at once altered the form of his Question to meet the rules of the House. I must now, inform the right hon. Gentleman that in his reply it will be his duty to avoid all reference to what has taken place in this House on a past occasion, and suggest that he should be as concise in his answer as justice to the subject-matter will permit
 MR. SPEAKER : To read a document commenting on debates in this House, and referring to a Member by name, is irregular.
 MR. SPEAKER : That is not rising to order.
 MR. DODSON  said, he had voted against two previous Bills on this subject, but in the present measure what he most had objected to was removed. The present Bill allowed a part of a county to be formed into a district. He did not think the Bill involved such a confiscation or such centralization as the hon. Member for Nottingham then apprehended. The adoption of the Bill would rest with the local magistracy, and the working of it with the rate-payers. In fact, it applied to
 315 ratione tenurœ 316 ratione tenurœ
 MR. GEORGE  hoped, however, that the people of Ireland would be allowed an opportunity of making themselves acquainted with the details of the Bill before the next step was taken. If it only removed the discrepancies which existed in the matter of weights and measures, it would be well deserving of attention; but he thought that the machinery might be simplified with advantage. He could assure the right hon. Gentleman that there was a sincere desire among all parties to assist in legislating upon the subject in a practical form. Although the present Irish Secretary had had the way smoothed for him, he could not better inaugurate his accession to office than by passing so useful a measure.
 MR. GEORGE  said, that the opinion of witnesses from all parts of Ireland, as stated to the Select Committee, was that the existing law gave sufficient power to guardians in Ireland to give outdoor relief in cases where it out to be afforded. The abolition of the quarter-acre clause was, in his opinion, fairly open to discussion; but, whether it was continued or repealed, the guardians must be the best judges as to whether destitution really did exist. He trusted the power of rearing destitute children outside the workhouse was intended to be a discretionary one, and that it would not extend to children beyond the age of five years. The substance of the evidence taken on that point by the Committee was, that the discretionary power should be confined to the cases of children not exceeding that age.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, the measures of the right hon. Gentleman so far had merited the approval of Irish Members; but he would be pursuing a retrograde policy if he adopted five years as the limit to which children could he maintained out of the workhouse. In I860, the House, by a majority of 92, declared itself in favour of twelve years as a limit; and he thought, when the Bill which he bad introduced came on for discussion, he could show reasons why fifteen years would be a still better standard. The English Poor Law
 342
 MR. HENNESSY  said, in England the Poor Law Commissioners regarded persons of 15 years of age as children, and the great mistake of their legislation with re spect to Ireland in the Poor Law Department was, that they had for Ireland a code which, in its most important particulars, was the reverse of what prevailed in England, lie thought they ought to take the age of the children in Ireland at 15 years.
 MR. HENNESSY : The advertisement says that any person can compete, with this proviso, that no one can do so except Roman Catholics.
 MR. HENNESSY  hoped that the House would allow him to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary for Ireland to a matter of some importance and urgency. Within the last day or two an advertisement had appeared in all the principal Irish newspapers, stating that the Commissioners of National Education in Ireland were about to nominate four candidates to compete by examination for a vacant place in the class of sub-inspectors of national schools, and adding that none but members of the Roman Catholic Church "are eligible to compete for the present vacancy." Now, as a friend and admirer of competitive examinations, he objected to this introduction of sectarian questions into the Civil Service examinations. They had been told that the national system in Ireland was established to bring men together regardless of their religious opinions; yet here was an attempt to nominate exclusively Roman Catholic Inspectors. He could hardly believe that the Secretary for Ireland was the author of the change proposed. He rather attributed it to the traditions of the Irish Office and the Irish Government, who endeavoured to become popular by holding out, he would not say bribes, but inducements to a class in the shape of Government appointments. A striking instance of this had recently occurred in the appointment to a seat at the Education Board of Lord Dunraven, who had always doubted the policy of the system of National Education in Ireland, but who had accepted the office without changing his opinions, and was now protesting against the policy of the Chief Secretary as to mixed education. Against the conduct of the National Commissioners, he (Mr. Hennessy) ventured to protest, and he trusted that through the intervention of
 306
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he rose to express his willingness to postpone his motion, not only for the reasons stated by the hon. Gentleman, but because the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whom he understood to be a supporter of his motion, could
 275
 MR. MAGUIRE : I rise to order. I beg leave to state that I never alluded to sufferings either imaginary or real. I asked a certain question in reference to a certain district, and I now request an answer.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether he had made inquiry in respect to the alleged attempts on the part of certain persons in Skull and Skibbereen to stir up a spirit of discontent amongst the people against the landlords; and if he could say on what occasion the attempts were made, and by whom and in what manner?
 MR. MAGUIRE : Sir, I again rise to order. I beg to ask whether, inasmuch as new matter has been introduced by the right hon. Gentleman, I shall be entitled to reply?
 MR. VANCE  thought the hon. Member for the King's County deserved credit for bringing this subject, though a Roman Catholic, under the notice of the House. He trusted that the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland would not, as an  ex officio
 MR. VANCE  said, that if the time were extended beyond five years, the children would never die. He objected to a measure that would increase the rates, which in his own city amounted to 2 s d
 MR. VANCE  could assure the House that the Boards of Guardians in Dublin were averse to the plan of sending children out to be reared. Either living or dead, these children would be charged to the Union during the entire of the term for which they had been sent out. The system would therefore lead to frauds. He should remind his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the King's County that the circumstances of this country were very different from those of Ireland. There were, and had always been, more destitute poor in Ireland; and in Ireland more advantage was taken of the Poor Law, go as to obtain relief from the ratepayers, under circumstances that never would be contemplated or sanctioned in England.
 MR. WALTER  said, that feeling a deep interest in this subject, he was anxious to bear his testimony as to the necessity of passing some measure of the kind. The hon. Member for Newark (Mr. Hodgkinson) had said that it was not a question whether there should be good roads or bad roads, but whether the parishes should he interfered with. He (Mr. Walter) thought the House would agree that in a Bill for the better management of highways, the
 321 322
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, that two Sessions ago he joined his hon. Friend (Mr. Barrow) in opposing the second reading of the Highway Bill then introduced; but the opinion of the House was so strongly expressed in favour of some such measure that he should not himself have thought it necessary to trouble the House by asking them to go to a division at this stage, more especially as the changes introduced into this measure were all an approach to the principle which he had ventured to advocate. The Bill was, however, still objectionable in this respect—that it really introduced compulsory government by Boards. True, it was at the option of the magistrates to constitute a Board of Highways or not. But his constituents did not like that such a system should be forced upon them at the option of any persons. They had no faith in the economy of Boards, however efficient; and they feared not only that a Board of Management would be attended with great expense, but that it would lead to some ulterior measure—some central Board in London on the pretence of maintaining uniform legislation throughout the country. He believed there was a good deal of reason in these objections; and, at any rate, he thought that so great a legislative change ought not to be made if the same result could be secured by some more simple measure. Believing that this might be done, he should at a future stage try to accomplish the end in view in a more
 317
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he had to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether there is any truth in the report that it is the intention of Government to construct fortifications on the islands of the steep and flat Holmes and the adjacent coasts, for the protection of the upper part of the Bristol Channel?
 MR. BASS  said, that, as a resident in the country and conversant with country matters, he must say that his experience of the condition of the highways brought him to a conclusion the very opposite of those stated by the hon. Members who had spoken on each side of him. The parish roads were mostly in very bad condition; and he had never found an overseer or waywarden, as he was called, who knew more of making a high road than he knew of the way to the moon. He knew the
 313
 MR. BASS  said, he wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether he proposed to refer the Bill on the subject of trade marks, which he had promised last Session, to a Select Committee or to introduce it himself.
 MR. LONGFIELD , as a Member of the Committee on whose Report the Bill was mainly founded, observed that the existing evils arose chiefly from want of proper accommodation, from frauds by sellers, frauds by buyers, and variations in weights and measures in various parts of the country. He was glad to see that the suggestions of the Committee had been adopted almost without alteration by Government, and that the Bill was introduced at an early period of the Session, whereas, in former years, such measures had fallen to the ground from being introduced at a late period, when the House was occupied with other, perhaps more important, because Imperial matters. He hoped that there would be no opposition to a measure looked forward to with so much hope by the people of Ireland.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, it was understood at the close of the last Session of Parliament that, from the difficulty of the subject, it would be desirable to refer any measure that might be introduced to a Select Committee. The Government had prepared a Bill, and were quite willing that it should go to a Select Committee; but the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield was desirous of submitting his view, in the form of a Bill, to the House. The Government, therefore, saw no objection to refer both measures to the same Committee.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that in reply to the question of the hon. Gentleman, he had only to say that there had been no complaints as to the mode in which vessels infringing the convention were dealt with in this country. It had, no doubt, been the duty of the authorities in the various parts of the country to enforce the Convention Act upon our fishermen, but the Government had not heard that any persons had complained of the way in which that had been done. There had been complaints as to the procedure in France in carrying out the provisions of the treaty, and representations had been made to the French Government, setting forth the complaints. Those representations had been favourably received, and were under the consideration of the French Government.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  congratu-
 337
 MR. BARROW , in rising" to move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months, expressed his surprise that no strong grounds had been given to the House for such an extraordinary interference with the rights of property. Before taking away from the owners and occupiers of property the right of managing their own affairs, it ought to be shown that they had so grievously neglected their duties as to deserve this severe punishment. The Bill was uncalled for and unnecessary. For several years similar Bills had been submitted to Parliament, but scarcely a single petition had been presented in favour of them, while, on the other hand, there had been a large number of petitions, from large and small parishes, presented against them. What the parishes ask was that they may be permitted to manage their own affairs in the most economical way they could. He objected to the Bill, because it was an extension of that principle of centralization and bureaucracy to which the people of this country were so much opposed, and he felt sure that if that system were pushed much further they would not remain so patient as many hon. Gentlemen seemed to anticipate. The exercise of the right of parishes to meet in vestry and manage their own affairs was essential to fostering a spirit of independence in the people, and ought not to be interfered with. The Bill, he believed, would not effect the object which it professed to aim at. He would remind the House that the principle
 308 Will ratione tenure 309 310 in extenso
 MR. DEEDES  said, that having for many years felt great interest in every measure of this kind, and being desirous of seeing something done to remedy the defects of the present administration of highway law, he could not but support the second reading of this Bill. In doing so he must not be taken as agreeing to all the clauses, or even all the principles in the Bill. In the first place, he thought it was unnecessarily complicated. He could not see upon what principle the Secretary of State for the Home Department was to be drawn in as an active party in carrying out the provisions of this Bill. He believed it would be better if it were left to the magistrates of the
 319 320
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, that the House might recollect that at the close of last Session he asked the noble Earl the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Whether he could inform them whether it was the intention of Belgium to enter into a commercial treaty with this country similar to that which had recently been entered into between Belgium and France. The reply of the noble Earl was that he had been assured by the Belgian Government they intended to do so; but that it was too late to bring the matter before their Chambers until the next Session. The delay was not satisfactory to the mercantile interests of this country; but they had no reason to think that the Government of Belgium was unfavourably disposed towards England. However, since then the Belgian Chamber had met again, and in the speech of
 278 279 280 281
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  observed, that Dr. Phelan, the Most Rev, Dr. Cullen, and other witnesses, had given strong evidence for out-door relief. He could not agree with the hon. Member for Dublin that the people of Ireland were more anxious to avail themselves of Poor Law relief than those of England. Statistics quoted by the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) a few nights before showed; the contrary to be the fact the per-
 343
 COLONEL SYKES  stated, that with a view to afford explanations of his motives for putting the questions, he had intended they should appear upon the paper on the motion for going into Committee of Supply; but, inadvertently, they were printed amongst the ordinary questions of the day, and he was disabled by the forms of the House from giving explanations. He now, therefore, begged to repeat his questions, Whether Her Majesty's subjects in India, and coloured British subjects in Canada and the Colonies, would be allowed to compete; why 1,824 recruits, for the Bengal Presidency alone, were sent out at the end of last year, the fixed establishment of European troops of all arms for India—namely, 71,000 men—being at the time exceeded by 9,770 men; and why the Queen's Bays, ordered home from India, were stopped at Cawnpore on their march to embark for England? The reason alleged last Session, as stated by the Secretary for War, for refusing to allow natives of India to compete for medical commissions in the Royal army was, that their constitutions would not bear exposure in northern climates. But admitting this to be the fact, which it was not, there was always an army of 200,000 men in India, Europeans and Natives; and if it had been desired to give natives of India the full rights of British subjects, provision could always have been made for any number of coloured medical men in India. But the argument of birth failed entirely with respect to coloured British subjects in Canada. There were at least 10,000 coloured persons, either born in Africa or descended from fugitive slaves, who had formed communities in Upper Canada, and passed unscathed many Canadian winters: many of them had gone through the curriculum of the Toronto University and become members of the liberal professions, and in London the year before last, at the meeting of the International Statistical Association, a Dr. Delany, a pure negro, took a distinguished part. The inference, therefore, was that a lamentable prejudice against colour deprived one class of British subjects of their rights. But if the colour of the skin were to exclude, what shade was to be the standard—black, yellow, brown, or whitey-brown? With respect to sending to India
 300
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for War, in reference to an advertisement in the public papers headed "Army Medical Department," stating that there would be a competitive examination for thirty Military Assistant Surgeons, Whether Her Majesty's subjects in India and coloured British subjects in Canada and the Colonies, would be allowed to compete? Why 1,824 recruits, for the Bengal Presidency alone, were sent out at the end of last year, the fixed establishment of European Troops of all arms for India—namely, 71,000 men, being at the time exceeded by 9,770 men? And why the Queen's Bays, ordered home from India, were stopped at Cawnpore on their march to embark for England?
 MR. BAINES : Sir, 1 can assure the hon. Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs that the opinions expressed by the hon. Member for Bradford are strongly held by the Chambers of Commerce in the north of England. This is not only a question, however, as to Belgium and the Zollverein, but a question as to the practicability of some new machinery being introduced in the Foreign Office, having reference particularly to the interests of trade. The unfair treatment of England by Belgium is an old grievance, because as far back as 1855 a deputation from the Leeds Chamber of Commerce sent a deputation to the Belgian Government, and also made a representation to our Foreign Office of the extreme unfairness with which British goods were treated in Belgium; they showed that even then Belgium imposed differential duties of between 33 and 150 per cent in favour of the goods of France. Now the case is made much worse in consequence of the recent treaty between France and Belgium, for that has lowered the duties on French goods, whilst the duties on English goods remain the same as before. I have just looked at the state of commerce between Belgium and England for the last five years, and I find that the imports from Belgium have been greatly on the increase, while the exports of English and Irish produce to Belgium have actually been on the decline. The figures are as follows:—In 1856 we imported from Belgium to the amount of £2,936,000, and in 1860 £4,070,000, being an increase of 38 per cent. The exports in 1856 were £1,689,000 and in 1860 they had declined to £1,610,000, being a decrease of 5 per cent. It would seem, therefore, that the unfavourable tariff of Belgium has the effect of continually reducing the exports from this country. The real effect, however, is greater than that which is apparent, because a considerable part of our exports to Belgium are not for consumption in that country, but for transit to Germany; and we feel that we have a right to the best exertions of the Foreign Office to obtain justice and fair treatment for our manufactures on the part of the Government of Belgium, because, to use the words used by the then Foreign Secretary, Earl Russell, this was a question of good faith on the part of Belgium. I consider that we have now a right to put as
 282
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that having regard to the exigencies of public business, he was unable to name a day, but he would take care that it should be one sufficiently early to enable a full consideration to be given to the subject.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that he had not addressed the House on moving the second reading, because he felt that he had nothing new to state, the present measure being identical in principle with other previous Bills which had received the sanction of that House. With the exception of the hon. Gentlemen who moved and second ed the Amendment, the Bill appeared to have met with very general assent as far as regards the principle that Highway districts should be formed, and Highway Boards established, to superintend the repair of the roads in those districts by means of paid district surveyors, whose business should be exclusively to attend to that duty. These Highway Boards were to be composed of the representatives of the ratepayers in each of the parishes forming a district. The Bill rested on authority and experience. The House had repeatedly affirmed its principle. The existing Highway Act, as it passed the House of Commons, contained a provision for the compulsory union of parishes as Highway districts, which provision was modified by the House of Lords so as to make it optional on the parishes to form the districts. The result was that that provision was acted upon but in a very few instances, as the assent of every individual parish had to be obtained; but in the districts where the power had been exercised, and the roads placed under the charge of district surveyors, the result had been most beneficial in the improvement of the roads and the economy of expenditure. An hon. Member (Mr. H. Bruce) had referred to South Wales, where it was stated the system adopted was almost identical with that proposed by the present Bill; and he found, by the last accounts, that in 1859 the expense of maintaining the roads there was, on an average, only £6 per mile, while in England it amounted to £11 2 s 326 327 328
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Some of the speakers who were friendly to the Bill had
 329
 SIR GEORGE GREY  pointed out that if the convictions were illegal there must be in Ireland, as in England, some means of bringing them before a superior authority and having them quashed.
 SIR MATTHEW WHITE RIDLEY : I voted against a Highways Bill upon a former occasion; since that time I have been in communication with my constituents, but I found they were not agreed upon the question, although they were all desirous that something should be done to improve the present system. Finding this to be the case, I have come to the conclusion of giving my support to the present measure so far as voting for the second reading, in the hope that in Committee the Bill will be so improved as to effect the objects which all have in view.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL , in moving for leave to bring in a Rill to amend the Laws in force for the Relief of the Destitute Poor in Ireland, said that the Irish Poor Law Code consisted at present of the Act 6f 1838, the Amendment Act of 1843 (which related to matters of detail), the Act of 1847, and the Act of 1851, commonly called the Medical Charities Act. In the year 1860 his predecessor in office (Mr. Cardwell) introduced a Bill, which was referred to a Select Committee, consisting of Irish Members, representing the most important borough and county constituencies. The evidence taken before
 340 341
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : Sir, I rise to move for leave to introduce a Bill for the better regulation of Markets and Fairs in Ireland. The subject is one of considerable importance to the domestic industry of the Irish people. Bills have been introduced into this House intended to deal with this subject in 1858, 1859, and 1861. It will be recollected that the Bills of 1858 and 1859 proposed the appointment of a commissioner and an assistant-commissioner who were to have the whole regulation of fairs and markets in Ireland, who were to prepare a schedule of tolls, and who were to have the power of calling upon the owners of fairs and markets to come forward and prove their titles. It will be recollected that my immediate predecessor thought that this was legislation of too minute a character, and that in the Bill introduced last Session it was proposed to leave a great deal to local management and to Orders in Council. That measure was referred to a Select Committee who went carefully into all its details, and the Bill which I have now the honour to submit to the House is, with certain slight modifications, substantially the same as that reported by the Select Committee last year. I believe that the evils so loudly complained of in Ireland will be corrected by this measure, and that in future the fair dealing of the great majority of the trading and agricultural classes will not be tampered and interfered with by that arbitrary and cumbrous machinery which is distasteful alike to producers, consumers, and exporters. The Bill has met with considerable support in Ireland, and I hope to be able, with the co-operation of the Irish Members, upon whose judgment and local experience I confidently rely, to pass it through both Houses in the present Session. I need hardly say that the subject to which the Bill relates has long and frequently engaged the attention of Parliament. More than 200 years ago there was a Parliamentary inquiry into the grievances connected with fairs and markets in Ireland. There was an inquiry into the subject in 1635; in 1640 a Bill for establishing the certainty of the amount of tolls to be levied was introduced, which, unfortunately, did not pass; and there were inquiries in 1697, 1698, 1703, 1764, and in 1826 by a Committee of the English House of Commons to consider the return
 332 333 334 Geo Will 335 Geo Geo 336
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  proceeded to say that in his opinion he thought the age named by the Poor Law Commissioners would he most suitable, but he did not wish to press on the House a point which could with more advantage be settled in Committee. The only remaining clauses to which he would call attention were those limiting the number of proxies for the election of Poor Law Guardians which might be held by any one person to ten, to be held for a period of ten years; and those which continued the powers of the Commissioners for two years.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  complained, that this subject had been introduced without notice, and admitted that he was not in a position to answer the hon. Gentleman categorically. He could state, however, that he was not an  ex officio 307
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : I will inquire into the subject, and let the hon. Gentleman know the result.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : Sir, the hon. Gentleman has not given notice of the exact terms of the Question that he intended to ask, but I have no objection to answer it as far as I am able. No doubt, the hon. Gentleman has asked the question with a view of endeavouring to throw doubts on the accuracy of a statement which I made the other night. In the zeal which he manifests for the interests of the landlords and tenants of Ireland he wishes to know the authority from which I derived the information which formed the substance of my reply to his own criticisms. It would take some time to read the letters in my possession; but if the House would permit me, I could answer the question fully. I am quite sure the House, and particu-
 268
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : If I answer the question, I am bound to express an opinion as to the subject to which particular reference is made. The hon. Gentleman evidently assumes by the notice he has given that what I stated in reference to the relative positions of the landlords and tenants in Ireland was not true. He referred to the district of Kanturk. I have received a letter this morning from Kanturk, which, if the House will permit me, I will read, because it is a complete refutation of the—I may almost say—calumnies on the state and condition of the country.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL , continuing to read—
 "The workhouse accommodation there is fixed by sealed order for 1,111 persons. On the 1st of February there were only 579 paupers therein, of whom 199 were in hospital, and 98 children under five years of age. Yesterday the numbers were reduced to 553. These numbers are really not extravagantly high, as the union is very large, contains 104,000 acres, is poor, remote, for a great part mountain, with a small resident proprietary, and contains several villages in addition to the chief town of Kanturk. In 1850 and 1851 there were about 5,000 in the workhouse and its several auxiliaries, and 24,000 receiving out-door relief." 270 "There was a meeting held at Castletown, Berehaven, with regard to the suffering there. A gentleman got up and stated that the greatest distress prevailed in that part of Ireland, worse than in 1847. Another gentleman got up at a very excited meeting and made use of these extraordinary expressions. He said:—' You have heard that property has its claims and duties as well as its rights, but the landlords of Ireland have ever been the curse of Ireland. They have taken particular care of their rights, while they have shamefully neglected their duties, retiring at night to rest to dream how they may harass and oppress the unfortunate people whose lives are in their keeping, and add a shilling or two to each pound of their rent-roll.'"
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : I will make it as concise as possible. The hon. Gentleman asked me for a specific reply as to the districts of Skull and Skibbereen. I would observe that I not only referred to these two districts, but also to the Roman Catholic diocese of Tuam. If the House will permit me. I will read a letter I have received from Kanturk this morning. The writer says—
 "Sir,—I think it only right your hands should be strengthened"— ex officio "Sir,—I think it only right your hands should be strengthened with reliable information while dealing with professional agitators who are trying to make political capital out of the present partial distress in certain parts of Ireland. The accuracy of Mr. Maguire's statements as to Kanturk Union will be estimated by the following facts: The workhouse accommodation—
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Whether the Government are in possession of a copy of any convention which has been concluded between the Government of Spain and that of Morocco, whereby one-half of the receipts of the Moorish custom-houses has been pledged to the Government of Spain; and, if so, whether they will lay the same before this House?
 MR. CAVE  concurred with the objects advocated by the noble Lord, but feared that a barbarian like the King of Dahomey would not understand any argument except force, and would not be bound by any treaty, however carefully drawn. He had received information that even our new settlement of Lagos, the importance of which, as a cotton-producing country, could not be overestimated, was in great danger from its proximity to Dahomey, and that its only safety lay in the presence of Captain Bedingfield, who had great influence with the natives, and who had anchored the  Prometheus 277
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  thought, that whether the high roads of the country were in a proper state of repair or not, was a very important question. There were many parts of England where the old parochial system had been well carried out, and where the roads were still in a good state of repair: but it would be found that this was where enterprising landlords and tenants had expended capital on the land, and they had taken care that the roads so necessary to their welfare and comfort should be properly attended to. But what was the state of the roads in districts where farming was backward, under small holders and needy landlords? In some of these districts the repair of the high roads had been lamentably neglected. The
 314 s d s
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, in regard to the question put by my noble Friend (Lord A. Churchill) with respect to Dahomey and the slave trade on the coast of Africa, the House knows very well that measures for the suppression of that traffic have occupied the most anxious and active attention of Her Majesty's Government for a great number of years. My noble Friend probably knows that two missions have been sent out at different times to the late King of Dahomey for the purpose of endeavouring to persuade him to abandon that barbarous practice of human sacrifice, and to assist us in suppressing the slave trade. I am sorry to say that they were not attended with success. Per-
 285 286 287 288 289 290 "Hard is their lot who here by fortune placed Must watch the wild vicissitudes of taste." 291
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he had to state that it was not the intention of Her Majesty's Government during the present Session to introduce any measure for the amendment of the Law of Bankruptcy.
 LORD DUNKELLIN  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether be has received any communication from the Atlantic Royal Mail Company relating to the present position and prospects of the Company; and, if so, whether he would have any objection to state the purport of such communication to the House?
 Mr. DAMER  said, he wished to ask the
 375
 MR.COWPER  said, that very often inconsiderate attempts at economy led to extravagance, and he was afraid that in this instance the economy would not be as great as the hon. Member supposed. The gravel walk to which the hon. Member alluded was a walk only made for the use of pedestrians. It would not bear the wear and tear of carriages during the five months of the Exhibition, and it would cost as much to make a sufficient road for those five months as for a longer period. Therefore, he believed that there would be economy in combining a temporary road with the permanent communication required for access to the Horticultural Gardens and the buildings on the Gore House Estate.
 Sib ROBERT PEEL  said, that the attention of the Government had been called to the distinction made by the Acts 24 and 25 Vict. c. 96, 97, and 100* between unpaid and stipendiary magistrates, and it was the intention of the Government to introduce a Bill in accordance with the provisions of the Act 14 and 15 Vict. c. 92, which conferred equal powers on alt Justices, paid or unpaid.
 Mr. COWPER  said, the plan that would be adopted would cross Kensington Gardens. The route that he understood his noble Friend to refer to would require the Serpentine to be crossed. There were three ways in which that crossing could be effected. One was by means of a tunnel under the river, another was the erection of a new bridge, and a third was the widening of the existing bridge. Either of these three operations would involve so great a delay that the road could not possibly be ready until the Exhibition had closed. It would besides involve an expense which the funds which were intended to be appropriated to the purpose
 376
 SIR HENRY WILLOUUHBY  said, he understood the House was to be called
 378 379
 Sir GEORGE LEWIS : Sir, I understand the hon. Member to ask whether the two Supplementary Estimates now on the table—one for the army and the other for the navy—will be sufficient to cover the entire excess beyond the expenditure voted last Session and appropriated by the Appropriation Act, or whether some further supplementary votes will be required. When an expedition has been recently sent out, the accounts for some time afterwards come in successively, and, perhaps, imperfectly; and it is impossible to say at the present moment what will be the exact amount of expenditure incurred with regard to that expedition. But I speak with the authority of my noble Friend near me (Lord Clarence Paget) when I say that the Supplementary Estimate now on the table is likely to cover the whole excess of expenditure for that department which will come in course of payment before the first of April next; and my information leads me to form the same expectation with regard to the War Department. The Government, therefore, have every reason to believe that this excess will be the whole amount to which it will be their duty to ask Parliament to agree during the current year. With respect to the transfer of items from one branch of the Estimates to the other, the hon. Baronet is well aware that the practice which he objects to is in ac-
 380
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : It refers to Canada only.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, that since he had had the honour of a seat in that House he had never seen an Estimate which pleased him more than the one before the Committee. He had expected, and he believed that the impression was general, that these four men would have cost the country a million each; and he was glad to find that, in vindicating the honour of the country so ably as the noble Lord at the head of the Government and the noble Earl the Secretary for Foreign Affairs had done, the cost had been so small. He was glad to find that the cost, so far as the navy was concerned, was not more than £234,000, and that even that sum included £25,800 for provisions and medical comforts of the troops while on board ship, which would have been required equally whether the men were at sea or on shore. The actual cost, therefore, of sending out these troops, so far as the Admiralty are concerned, seemed to be little more than £200,000. They could not, of course, with only that Estimate before them, arrive at the whole cost of the expedition; but it appeared that the charge for the army was only £609,000, so that they might take the whole expense at £1,000,000, or one-quarter of what the country supposed it would be. Therefore, he for one was highly satisfied with the result; and he only hoped that when the ordinary Navy Estimates appeared they would be as moderate in proportion as these supplementary votes. The hon. Member for Norfolk (Mr. Bentinck) had suggested the employment of Her Majesty's troop-ships instead of hired transports in such emergencies. The Transport Committee, of which he for two Sessions was chairman, had, however, arrived at the conclusion that it was much more economical for the country to hire transports as they were required than to maintain permanently a fleet of
 401
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he wished to know whether it was intended to reduce the size of the ships, as well as the armaments they carried. If vessels were built to carry a certain number of guns, it seemed that the proper course would be to put that number on board; if they were only to carry the reduced armament, and yet were pierced for a larger number, he fancied they were building too large a battery.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : In the early part of this evening, before Mr. Speaker left the chair, the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli), asked me a very pertinent question, Whether the charge covered by the first vote in the Estimate I have now the honour to propose was limited to the North American provinces, or applied generally to the army. The reply I have to make is, that with respect to this and the remaining votes in the Supplementary Estimate the charges are for extraordinary expenses incurred in consequence of reinforcements which have been lately sent out to the North American provinces, and which would not have been incurred if those reinforcements had not been sent out. The whole of the Supplementary Estimate is to be attributed to that cause exclusively, and I fear there will be some extraordinary charges which will not come in course of payment before the first of April next, and for which it will be necessary to make provision in the general Army Estimates for the year. I mention this, as the sums may not be inconsiderable. I therefore wish to guard against the inference which the remarks of my hon. Friend might suggest, that the entire cost of the reinforcements would be covered by this Supplementary Estimate. I will state as briefly as I can to the Committee the principal items of which the Estimate consists. I will preface my explanations by remarking that the number of men was in excess of the Vote during the earlier months of the year, and therefore it became necessary for the department to take steps for reducing it, in order that the number should be short of the Vote in the latter part of the year, and in that manner that a balance might be established. Accordingly, the recruiting of men was stopped in the summer, and the number was allowed to fall below the establishment. But when the alarm of a rupture with the United States arose, the Government thought it right to recommence recruiting in order to increase the battalions in North America by 200 rank and file each, so as to bring them up to a war establishment. However, as soon as
 405 406 407 s d 408
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : The question which the right hon. Gentleman has raised is not necessarily involved in the discussion of this Estimate, which is to meet an extraordinary charge in consequence of reinforcements sent out under the special circumstances of this case. Now, it may have been very wrong that our predecessors had not adopted the policy which the right hon. Gentleman recommends, and had not required that the colonies should make a large contribution towards the expenses of their own military and naval defence; but, inasmuch as that provision had not been made, Her Majesty's Government could deal with the circumstances only as they existed, and I think it must be seen that if we did not send out this force, the frontier of British North America would have remained undefended. I cannot admit, therefore, that this question has any direct bearing on the Vote. At the same time, the right hon. Gentleman has taken a perfectly fair and proper course in calling attention to an important principle of policy which is involved in the case before us. Now, during the American war the Parliament of this country passed an Act by which it declared that it was illegal to tax the colonies. I am afraid that it would be very difficult to pass an Act declaring it illegal for the colonies to tax us. The system under which the military and naval defence of Canada rests on us virtually amounts to a tax imposed on the mother country for the benefit of the colonies; but, inasmuch as the colonies are dependencies, as we allow them no option with regard to our foreign relations, but make them follow in our wake, compel them to share our fortunes, and involve them in our wars, it is not unnatural on the part of the colonies to expect that a very large portion of the expense of their naval and military defence should be defrayed by the mother country. It is an unquestionable fact that this has been the case, with very slight exceptions, up to the present time; and it is a matter for the consideration of the House whether a change in this established policy should be effected. There
 411 412
 COLONEL DUNNE  observed, that the pay for the general staff was put down at £2,260, which appeared to him far under the necessary sum to pay the general staff officers of an army consisting of 15,000 men.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he believed the sum represented the excess of the pay for the current year of the staff officers sent to the North American station beyond the pay voted in the ordinary Estimates.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he did not see any Vote in the Estimates for the purpose of fortifications. He knew the disgraceful State of the fortifications in British North America, and he was quite certain that it would be necessary to go to considerable expense in repairing them. There was in the War Office an able report by General Eyre on the subject, and he should like to know the intentions of the Government in respect to the matter.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  remarked, that the subject just touched on was one of considerable importance. He had read the report alluded to, and acknowledged that it was a comprehensive and able document; but it now had merely historical interest, for it bore date as long back as 1826. [Colonel DUNNE intimated that there was a more recent Report.] He had not seen a more recent Report; but, if there were one, it no doubt was made before the introduction of railways, which had almost entirely changed the aspect of the defences in Canada. The subject naturally occupied the attention of the Government, and he believed that the Governor was instructed to cause an inquiry to be made by some of the Engineer officers now sent over into the defences of Canada, and the Government would thus have in their possession a complete account of the existing condition of those defences.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was sorry the Bill had made its appearance again. He did not intend, after the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, to oppose the second reading, but he could not avoid making one or two observations on the shape in which the Bill now appeared. He did not see that any ground had been laid for imposing—as the Bill would impose—on the country a fine of something
 416
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  said, I wish to know why the surplus arising under the Estimate for 1861–2 could not be applied in relief of this Estimate; and also whether the seamen who had been discharged from Her Majesty's vessels recently returned from service in China, had had given to them the opportunity of becoming continuous—service men if they wished to do so: if they had not, great injustice had been done them. I am not prepared to condemn the removal of a portion of the bow and stern guns from the experimental—for, at this moment, I can designate them as little otherwise than experimental ships—lately built, as it will render them less likely to strain, and in time of peace this is an object not to be disregarded. Nevertheless, it will be important that such guns, or such supply as might be advisable, should he kept in store at Malta, Halifax, and other foreign stations, in order that they might at once be forthcoming again, to be placed on board those ships from which they had been displaced. I have learnt with extreme concern the intention to reduce the complement of the crews in Her Majesty's ships. I raise my voice against a measure so improvident. I am aware that the crews of ships are regulated by the number of guns they carry still; the ships lately built carry a greater spread of canvas and are heavily masted, and a smart and efficient ship of war is the pride of the service; the reduction will place more labour on the crew and create a heavy dissatisfaction. Moreover, a ship undermanned is subject for serious misgiving in general efficiency for all description of duties which may be assigned her, and under all circumstances in which, perchance, she might be placed; besides, in the event of any sudden emer-
 402
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he would rather discuss that and similar questions when the Navy Estimates were before the House.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, the £100,000 alluded to by the hon. Baronet (Sir S. Northcote) would at the end of the year undoubtedly be transferred to the Treasury, to be dealt with according to the Appropriation Act. The Admiralty would derive no benefit from it. He was indebted to the right hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich (Sir J. Pakington) for that op-
 403
 Lord CLARENCE PAGET : Sir, it will not be necessary for me to trouble the Committee at any great length in bringing under consideration the Supplementary Estimates for the Navy, the principal cause of which is pretty well known. It will only be my duty to give a detailed explanation of the various votes; but previously to doing so I wish to answer the question put to me by the hon. Member for Evesham, (Sir Henry Willoughby) regarding the balances which are available for the naval expenditure. The hon. Member asks whether the sums now to be voted are to be appropriated according to the Estimates laid before the House, or in aid of any other votes than those mentioned in these Estimates. I can assure him that the intention of the Admiralty is to deal  bonâ fide 395 396 397 Adelaide Victoria
 Lokd WILLIAM GRAHAM  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the statement contained in "the Correspondence on Mexican Affairs," headed "Inclosure No. 13," is correct; that; £500 was paid by the English Government to a Mr. Newall, as compensation for an illegal imprisonment by General Marquez; and, if so, why it has been paid in his case and not in any other?
 MR. AYRTON  said, he did not intend to discuss the provisions of the Bill, but in the Bill of last Session a pledge was given that the Metropolis should be exempted from the operation of the Bill, and yet it contained no clause to that effect. He also thought it necessary to call attention to the remarkable change contemplated by the Bill. The rating of all property was to be brought down to one uniform permanent annual rental, the standard being that of the land. Houses were to be assessed on the annual value, landlords undertaking to keep the property in repair. That would entirely subvert the old principle of assessment, and would add 20 per cent to the rating of house property. Houses of the most fragile character would be assessed at the same rate as those held for 99 years. The measure had been introduced to make way for a Reform Bill, but it was founded on a total misapprehension as to the necessity of taking the annual value of property on the rate-book as the standard of qualification. He did not think it would answer the purpose for which it was intended, and it was worth consideration whether it was at all necessary.
 Mr. LAYARD  said, that the statement with regard to Mr. Newall, printed in the papers laid before Parliament,—and quoted by the lion Member, had beeu taken from the newspapers, and was not accurate in all its details. The case of Mr. Newall was this: he had received, is the agent of a Mr. Davis, a large sum of money—about 15,000 dollars. His receipt for this sum fell into the bands of General Marquez, who insisted upon the money being paid over to him. On Mr. Newall's refusal to pay it. General Marquez ordered him to be shot on the following morning, and he was carried off and put into prison. He still refused to give up the money; and
 377
 MR. DISRAELI  observed, that it would be well if in his statement the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for War would state whether the House were to understand that the sum of £11,000 for extra pay and allowances was for the extra pay and allowances for the service of the whole year or referred to Canada only.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that the vote having arisen from expenses connected with the defence of our North American colonies, it would be well for the Committee to know what their prospects were to be for the time to come. It was quite true that it would have been an act of pusillanimity not to send out troops for the defence of the colonists, as they had been drawn into the dispute without having been consulted; but the quarrels that affected the empire, affected all its dependencies, and it was extraordinary if those who shared nine-tenths of the advantages were spared the burdens of the expenditure of the empire. He did not blame the Government for what had been done, nor did he sympathize in the least with the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright), who, as the noble Vicount had said, stood absolutely alone in the sentiments he had expressed. Every other hon. Member in the House must give the noble Viscount credit for the promptitude, vigour, and success with which he had averted war by sending succour to Canada. When, however, it was truly said that Canada was our weak point, he could not help asking himself the reason why Canada was in so defenceless a state as it undoubtedly was at the commencement of the dispute. He agreed that it was a matter of good fortune that the noble Viscount succeeded in averting war and in saving Canada. But he would ask the noble Lord what would have happened if England had been engaged at that moment in defending her own shores, and if the interests of France had not concurred with ours, but had been adverse to our own? Canada would not have been able or ready to hold her own, even for a time, while England would have been seeking in every quarter for assist-
 409 410
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  replied, that do such Memorial had reached his Department.
 MR. PULLER  said, that as a Member of the Select Committee to which allusion had been made, he could state that, as far as his own knowledge of its proceedings extended, the Committee were not responsible for the alteration in the principle of rating which had been made by the Bill.
 Lord FERMOY  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether any plan has been adopted for the formation of the Road to connect Bays-water with Kensington; and, if so, whether it will pass through Kensington Gardens or take the line approved of by the Metropolitan Board of Works, avoiding Kensington Gardens and not materially interfering with Hyde Park. He should also like to know whether, as the cost of the road is to be defrayed out of the Coal Tax, the right hon. Gentleman does not think that it would be fair to leave the expenditure of the money in the hands of the Metropolitan Board, who are the representatives of the ratepayers?
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he had listened to the statement of the noble Lord with some regret, inasmuch as he had intimated that the Admiralty had some intention of reducing the number of our seamen. For his own part, he always looked with great suspicion on the announcement at that period of the Session of those contemplated reductions, whether in the army or the navy, because he invariably found that that indicated a leaning to a system which, of all others, was, he believed, in reality the most wasteful and extravagant—the cutting down the number of men in the first instance in order to lay the Estimates in what was deemed a more acceptable shape before Parliament, and subsequently having recourse to increased expenditure in order to meet the requirements of the public service. He should like to know whether it was true that a portion of the proposed reduction was to take place in the number of men and guns of a certain class of ships.
 398 Himalaya
 MR. BENTINCK  observed, that the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Lindsay) had spent a large amount of energy in refuting assertions which he had never made. He had never impugned the energy or patriotism of the British merchant seaman, nor had he gone the length of saying that the Government ought to be independent of the mercantile marine for the transport of troops. All he said was, that he thought it would he more economical, and conduce more to the comfort of the troops, if they had a large number of troop-ships of the  Himalaya
 MR. CLIVE  said, that as the second reading was unopposed, it was unnecessary to say much on the contents of the Bill. He had always regarded it as undoubtedly desirable to introduce a system of greater fairness and uniformity in the rating, as well between individuals as between parish and parish. As a rule, the county rate was made separate from the poor rate, but in many cases it was on the poor rate; and therefore, if in one parish the assessment for the poor rate was taken at half, and in another at a third, there was necessarily great inequality in respect to the county rate. The apprehensions expressed as to the expense which this measure would entail were as groundless as the objection that it would deprive overseers and parishes of the power which ought to
 417
 MR. HENRY D. SEYMOUR  rose to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether the Govern merit have received from the English and Irish Prelates any heads of a measure for the Reform of the Ecclesiastical Courts. He wished to know also whether, if the Government have received the heads of the proposed measure from the English Prelates alone, they intend to communicate with the Irish Prelates on the subject?
 MR. BRIGHT : Before you leave the chair, Sir, I should like to make one or two observations. I am not going to object to the Vote, of course; I have had too much experience of such matters to attempt any such thing; but after the prodigious sums voted last year, and in past years, I think we are now driven to the point at which it may be worth while to consider whether the expenditure of an additional million has been necessary and wise, or not. Now, I am not about to find fault with the course of Her Majesty's Government with regard to the recent transaction with the Government of the United States, so far as I can see any-
 381 382 383 384 385 Trent Trent laughter 386 387
 MR. LOCKE  urged that the measure was unnecessary for the purpose either of parochial or union rating, and that for political purposes it would be inoperative, since the question with regard to franchise depended on the value of the occupation, and not the mode or the amount of the rating. He could see no necessity for the Bill; if anything could be done, it would be to improve the mode of assessment provided for by the 6 & 7  Will
 Mr. LONGFIELD  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If the attention of the Government has been called to the Clauses in the recent Acts 24 and 25 Vict. c. 96, 97, and 100. by which a distinction is made between the Unpaid and Stipendiary Magistrates; and if it is the intention of Government to introduce any measure to restore the provisions of the Act 14 and 15 Vict. c. 92, which confers equal powers on all Justices, paid or unpaid?
 MR.BAXTER  said, that although he entertained the same friendly feeling towards the Government of Washington which the hon. Member for Birmingham had just expressed, and, although he could not but deprecate the strong language used in many of the newspaper articles in this country in reference to the Northern States, he could not concur with his hon. Friend in the censure he had passed on the measures taken by the Government. He had no doubt that the Estimates would meet with the unanimous concurrence of the Committee, because they were a part of that policy which the Government had pursued in the affair of the Trent, and which the people of this country had undoubtedly most heartily approved. It was no part of their business, nor was it part of the business of the Government to defend newspaper articles, and he concurred with his hon. Friend in thinking that the language made use of by some organs of public opinion in this country was quite as discreditable as that which had been used by the Press in New York. But not only did he think that Her Majesty's Government acted rightly when they took a determined and decided stand in the Trent affair—and he understood his hon. Friend the Member for Birmingham to take the same view—but he would go further, and say that he believed Her Majesty's Government did perfectly right when they backed their demand by such a display of energy and strength as showed that Great Britain was in earnest. And having some slight acquaintance with the institutions and the working of the political machinery in the
 388 389
 MR. MURRAY  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Attorney General, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce a Bill to consolidate the Laws relating to Bankruptcy?
 MR. VANSITTART  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether he has received a Memorial, signed by the Members of the Covenanted Civil Service of India, complaining of the effect which the Civil Service Bill passed last Session is likely to have in diminishing, and eventually destroying, the Funds known as the Widows' and Orphans' Fund and the Annuity Fund; and whether he has taken any steps to prevent such apprehended consequences, and, if so, to state what they are?
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that while approving the step taken by Her Majesty's Government in sending out in a prompt manner troops to assist the North American provinces in case of invasion, he was glad to find that what the Government now asked for would cover the whole of the expenses. There was an impression abroad that a considerably greater expense had been incurred.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  observed, that it appeared from the statement now made that the number of officers and men sent out amounted to 14,000 men, but in previous statements made to the public the number was only put at 10,000 men.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he rose to move the second reading of the Bill, and to repeat what he had said in answer to a question early in the evening, that the immediate object which he had in view was to procure as soon as possible the reappointment of the Committee which sat to consider a Bill of the same character, which had been introduced by his right hon. Friend the Secretary for War last year, and which had not passed through the hands of the Committee before the close of the Session. They had, however, made some progress in its consideration, and had come to a resolution recommend-
 414
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the Parochial Assessments Bill of last Session was referred to a Select Committee, which came to a certain Resolution respecting it, in consequence of which the Bill was re-drawn. The Session was, however, too far advanced for its being considered; and the Committee, therefore, recommended that if the Bill should be brought in again this Session, and read a second time, it should be referred to a Select Committee. It was with the object of carrying that arrangement into effect that the House would be asked that night to read the Bill a second time.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied, that the Bishop of London had informed the Lord Chancellor that a measure was under the consideration of some of the Bishops for the amendment of the Church Discipline Acts, and on Saturday Dr. Twigs, the Vicar General for the province of Canter
 374
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, that great praise was due to the officers and soldiers for the alacrity and energy with which, on so short a notice, they had proceeded to the scene of duty. Heavy loss, he feared, would be entailed upon many of them in consequence of the failure of the transports  Victoria and Adelaide
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he also wished to congratulate the Government on the reasonable cost at which they had been enabled to convey their reinforcements to Canada. He would have cheerfully supported a much larger vote, had it been necessary. Some explanation, however, was required from the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty as to the prospective reduction in the navy. He hoped that that reduction would not be effected by a reduction in the armament of Her Majesty's vessels-of-war, but he had been informed that the  Euryalus Shannon Himalaya 400 Parana Persia Adriatic
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  observed that he had understood his noble Friend, the Secretary to the Admiralty, to say that the first two items of the vote (for seamen and victualling) would in any case have been incurred. His noble friend also made a statement which he did not exactly comprehend, as to the application of a surplus on some of the votes. He wished to know whether any portion of any such surplus had been applied to the sending out the reinforcements to Canada, and whether the sum of—234,000 covered the whole cost of those measures? As they were all aware, owing to stress of weather, some of the reinforcements had not yet reached their destination, and he believed that several of the transports which had arrived in Canada had not yet returned to this country. He made that inquiry because his noble Friend would agree with him that in making a statement of this kind there should be no disguise, and that the House should know clearly and fully
 399
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he understood that the two first items of the Vote amounting to £130,000 were independent altogether of the expedition to Canada, and that if it had not been for the necessity of presenting a Supplementary Estimate with regard to the other items, the Vote would not have appeared in its present form, inasmuch as there was an excess in the Vote for the year for iron ships amounting to £150,000, which would have been available for this purpose. No doubt by law the surplus of one Vote was with the consent of the Treasury applicable to supply the deficiency on another; but he considered that this was a case in which the application of that principle would be regarded with some jealousy—both on account of the amount of the surplus, and because the money was voted for providing certain permanent property which must ultimately be provided. The practice of diverting items from one head of public expenditure to another was attended with a doubly bad effect. It encouraged the Admiralty, in framing their Estimates, to put down a very moderate amount for stores, and to ask for large sums under heads, such as iron ships, which the nation was willing to grant. The hon. Baronet in conclusion inquired whether the surplus which had arisen on the Vote of £250,000 would be surrendered as a saving to the Exchequer, or applied in any other way.
 MR. BOVILL  said, he would not, after the statement which had just been made by the right hon. Baronet, oppose the second reading of the Bill; but he was prepared to take that course only upon the distinct understanding that it should be open to him when the Bill came back to object to the principles as well as to the details of the scheme. It was a measure which affected the interests of every parish in England, and he, for one, was disposed to find fault with it, not only for what it proposed to do, but because it failed to deal with many important objects to the attainment of which he thought it ought to be directed. The most important interests in the great majority of parishes were those connected with the land occupied by railway, gas, water, and other companies, and great difficulty was experienced in rating property of that kind. The difficulty arose from the language of the Parochial Assessment Act, 6 & 7  Will 415
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I am not going to answer the latter part of the speech of my hon. Friend who has just sat down; that is a topic which will be more properly handled by my right hon. Friend near me (Sir George Lewis) when he comes to make his statement on the Estimates. But I am unwilling to let a longer time elapse without making some observations on what has fallen from the hon. Member for Birmingham. I said on a former occasion that it was desirable that in this House we should not only pass laws and vote Estimates, but should also be the organs of the opinions and feelings of large masses of the community. I go further, and I admit that it is sometimes useful that this House should hear the views and opinions of individuals, and to-night we have had an example of the singular opinions of one instead of the general opinion of many. But I think that with all deference to my hon. Friend it must be admitted that the opinions which he has expressed are as nearly as possible confined to himself. Sir, my hon. Friend does justice to the course which the Government pursued in making their demand for redress from the American Government. Upon that point there is no difference of opinion. He has done full justice to the courtesy and the consideration which influenced my noble Friend at the head of the Foreign Office when he instructed Lord Lyons to make the communication, and to the delicacy, judgment, and good taste with which Lord Lyons complied with his instructions. It is well, therefore, to know that the ground is cleared of any objections upon those pre luminary points. But my hon. Friend thinks that we were wrong in those military and naval preparations which have been made; that we were wrong in sending out to Canada troops who went with what I think he called "ferocious gesticulations." I do not know to what particular circumstance he alludes, but the weather was cold when they were going, and if they did make "any gesticulations," it must have been in the customary mode of warming their hands. But, Sir, the
 390 Trent 391 392 393 394
 Viscount PALMERSTON  Sir, I have received a written communication from that Company, but I had rather not state its substance, because one is always apt or understate what parties may think important. If my noble Friend will move for the production f the Paper, I shall have no objection to lay it on the table.
 MR. PACKE  expressed a hope that the House would read the Bill a second time.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : Sir, I have had under consideration the alternative contemplated by the second branch of the hon. Gentleman's question,—namely, the depriving of Soldiers in all cases of ball cartridges, with a view to prevent those very disastrous occurrences of which there have been several recent instances. On consulting with the military authorities, it appeared to me very doubtful whether it was possible to make any regulation on the subject which would be effectual, because in most regiments there is a system of frequent ball practice, and it is also necessary to serve out Cartridges to soldiers on guard, on escort duty, and on various other occasions of a similar nature. It would be easy for any ill-disposed person to secrete a single ball Cartridge, and it would be almost impossible buy any vigilance to make it certain that the exact number served out were returned into store. Under these circumstances, I shall not advise the Horse Guards to make any regulation on that subject. However, I have under consideration an alteration in the law by which, in the case of murders committed by private soldiers on their superior Officers, the trial and punishment will follow the offence more speedily than under the present procedure. I trust a Bill giving effect to this alteration will shortly be laid on the table of the House.
 COLONEL GILPIN  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether, in consequence of the effects of amalgamation upon the prospects of a considerable number of Officers in India, many of whom had rendered good service to the State, and who have already lost the money paid for their promotion on the faith of a General Order of the Court of Directors, dated May 1858, and who are now receiving Indian pay and allowances for doing comparatively nothing, these Officers or any of them, will be allowed the option (in accordance with the recommendation of the Commissioners) of retiring upon a moderate bonus?
 MR. WHITE  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Why Nee-e-gata, or some other convenient Port on the West Coast of Nipon, was not opened to British Trade on the 1st day of January, 1860, as was stipulated by the third article of the Treaty with Japan; and whether British subjects will be allowed to reside in the city of Yedo, as was likewise stipulated in the same article of the above-named Treaty?
 SIR-ROBERT PEEL  said, the Government would offer no objection to the Motion if the hon. Member would consent to append to his Motion returns of the number of students who entered each of the Queen's Colleges in the sessions 1859–60, 1860–1, and 1861–2; of the number and values of the scholarships provided for each class, regarding the scholarships of the second, third, and fourth years as continuations of those of the first year; and of the total number of students attending the Queen's Colleges in each of the aforesaid sessions, distinguishing their religious denominations.
 MR. COWPER  said, that the utilization of sewage—that was, the removal of it from towns for the purposes of agriculture—had long been a problem which persons interested in the sanitary improvement of towns had endeavoured to solve. The late Board of Health had made many inquiries and valuable reports upon the subject, but hitherto very little progress had been made; for although the sewage of small towns under special circumstances could be advantageously applied to agriculture, as in the cases of Rugby and Watford, yet with regard to large towns, excepting the very remarkable and peculiar case of Edinburgh, science had failed in finding any system which was entirely satisfactory. He was not very sanguine that this branch of engineering and sanitary science would be likely to obtain much assistance from the labours of a Committee; yet since the hon. Gentleman was willing to undertake that inquiry, and as he bad shown by an elaborate speech that the subject was one requiring investigation, he should not object to the appointment of a committee, and
 455
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, that he hoped, after the statement of his hon. Friend, that the Government would consider whether some steps should not be taken to perpetuate the memory of the leader of this expedition. The country, which had derived great advantage from the extension of the British empire in that part of the world, would appreciate the devotedness of Mr. Burke and his brave companions, and he hoped that some steps would be taken by the Government to do honour to their memory.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, How soon, the Papers which have been promised upon the subject of the American Blockade, are likely to be laid upon the table?
 MR. LAYARD  said, the papers referring to the subject were being prepared with every possible despatch, and he hoped they would be laid on the table by the end of the week; but if not by that time, they would be produced as Boon as possible afterwards.
 MR. LAYARD  replied, that Her Majesty's Government had not thought it expedient to ask the Japanese Government to open this Port of Nee-e-gata on the West Coast of Nipon, or to allow British subjects to reside in Yedo. In a few days the Papers relating to Japan would be laid upon the table of the House, and the hon. Gentleman would then see why that decision had been come to.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, the hon. and gallant Gentleman was probably aware that an offer had been made on the part of the Government to a number of officers of the late Indian armies of the ranks of Lieutenant-Colonel, Major, and Captain, that they should be entitled to retire, if they should think it desirable, on very liberal terms. A smaller number of officers accepted the offer than it extended to. Besides this, a bonus had been offered to all officers entitled to do so, and beyond this he did not think the Government would be justified in making any further concession.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, that he was glad to be able to produce without delay the papers for which
 451
 MR. HADFIELD  remarked, that the practice of purchasing£100,000 worth of land with £50,000, and borrowing the remainder, had led to one of the difficulties which had rendered the establishment of the Encumbered Estates Court necessary. Supposing there were many lenders on one estate, as the hon. Member for Cork proposes, and the owner wanted to sell an acre, would not the concurrence of all the mortgagees be necessary? Supposing, further, the interest not to be I paid, who was to foreclose? who was to take possession? who was to receive the rents? Legislation concerning real estate appeared to be running wild. Five Bills
 442
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he thought the Bill ought to empower the Government to enter into arrangements for reciprocity on this subject with foreign countries. He held registration to be essential, and saw no difficulty in managing it. An old established system of registration for trade marks existed in Sheffield, and had worked very well. The manufacturers of that town complained bitterly of the ill-treat-
 448
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, he was not quite prepared to recognise the great advantages which were expected by the hon. Mover and Seconder to flow from this scheme. Both speakers had assumed that it was a great advantnge to facilitate mortgages of land in Ireland. But, notwithstanding the difficulties which sur-
 441
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that in moving an Address for the production of Copy of all Despatches from Sir Henry Barkly and the other Colonial Governors upon the subject of the successful crossing of the Australian continent by the expedition under the charge of Mr. Burke, he would ask the indulgence of the House while he called their attention to this important expedition. He would remind the House that considerable sums of money had been voted on previous occasions for the purpose of defraying the cost of similar expeditions, and these had been supplemented by colonial votes and subscriptions; but that, until the present occasion, the Australian continent had never been success-
 449 450
 MR. CRUM-EWING  remarked, that he should support the motion for the introduction of the Bill, the question being one in which his constituents were deeply interested.
 MR. J. BROWN  said, lie rose to move that the Bill be read a second time that I day six months. He would beg to re-mind the House that on no less than four previous occasions had the Great Northern Railway Company been defeated in their attempts to obtain Parliamentary sanction for making the line contemplated by the Bill. The question, therefore, that the House had to consider was, whether they would allow a company such as the Great Northern, gigantic in its resources, strong in its Parliamentary influence, and overwhelming in the number of its adherents, to introduce Session after Session into Parliament Bills that were substantially the same in their character and object. More over, the line proposed did not satisfy the requirements of the district. He hoped the House would on the present occasion mark its sense of the course pursued by the Great Northern Company in the matter by rejecting the Bill.
 MR. BRADY  said, that he rose to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the best means of utilizing the sewage of the cities and towns of England, with a view to the reduction of local taxation and the benefit of agriculture. He said that he regarded this as a subject of great national importance, but that there were several preliminary points which ought to precede its consideration. Firstly, it should be determined whether the sewage of cities and
 453 was 454 "But, gentlemen, I cannot but think that the progress in chemical science, and the application of that science to practical agriculture, may lead to something which will render you less anxious and solicitous about land; and that, instead of sending to the other end of the world for manure, we shall find something nearer home for the purpose. The dirt of our towns ought to be on our fields, and we ought not to allow decomposed substances in our towns to pollute the atmosphere, corrupt health, promote disease and pestilence, and destroy life. I am sure, if a system could be devised whereby substances which are noxious could be utilized, not only the health of the towns' population would be greatly improved, but the agricultural interest would derive great pecuniary advantages from the change."
 MR. GEORGE  said, he thought it right to draw the attention of his hon. and learned Friend to the circumstance that it was the intention of the right hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Whiteside) with the concurrence of one of the Judges of the Landed Estates Court in Ireland, to introduce a Bill somewhat analogous to the Bill which it was now I sought to bring in. Under these circumstances he reserved to himself and to his right hon. Friend the right of dealing with this Bill hereafter as they might think proper.
 MR. HENNESSY  assented, and said that his Motion was in no wise dictated by any feeling of hostility to the Queen's Colleges. He merely asked for information.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that he rose to move for a copy of a letter addressed from Dublin Castle in the month of October,
 452
 MR. LOCKE  said, that he agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman, the Member for Sheffield; but there was another fraud to which attention ought to be drawn—namely, the practice of manufacturers themselves putting false trade marks upon their goods. For example, a case was tried not long ago in the Court of Queen's Bench, when it was proved that a well-known manufacturer had been in the habit of sending reels of cotton into the market with less cotton on the reels than the figures on them denoted. He thought that a summary conviction should be provided for in such cases. He was at Paris, when Mr. Cobden was there negotiating the French treaty, and that Gentleman's Secretary had told him that one of the principal difficulties with which they had to contend in obtaining reciprocal legislation for the protection of trade marks was the very fact that English manufacturers were found to falsify their own trade marks, the Gentleman to whom he referred having specially mentioned the false quantities on reels of cotton as an instance of the frauds in question.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that the subject he was about to bring under the consideration of the Committee was one of great importance. As he had no personal experience of the manufactures of this country, the statement he was about to make was founded chiefly on facts derived from some of his constituents, and he deemed it the duty of a legislator to state nothing except that which he really believed. His knowledge of the subject also was chiefly confined to the hardware manufacture, and he trusted, therefore, that those hon. Members who were acquainted with other branches of industry would freely state their experience upon the subject. He would first of all mention the object he had in view, and would then state shortly the means by which he sought to attain
 443 "I will make for you an article of hardware with any Sheffield mark you please. You have only to send to me and to tell me what mark you wish to have put on it. Not only will I do this, but I shall put the article in a wrapper of the Sheffield manufacturer, or one so like it that nobody can perceive the difference." 444 445 sine qua non
 MR. ROEBUCK  observed, that he did not think the House was the best tribunal to try a matter of the kind before them. He recollected that when a direct line was proposed from London to Portsmouth the country was up in arms, and of course the Bill was thrown out, and the country gentlemen were left to mourn over their victory. The House would do well to send the matter to a Committee.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, had referred to the effect which the Bill might have upon the innocent manufacturer; but he (Mr. Roebuck) would remind him that the innocent manufacturer was not in the practice of imitating the trade marks of other persons. [Mr. Milner Gibson: I spoke of the innocent seller.] They need not be afraid that the measure would injure any honest man. The measure might injure rogues, and he should be very glad if it did so.
 MR. RICHARDSON  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, What precautions have been taken to prevent the repetition of the numerous Murders of their Officers by Soldiers in the British Army; and whether it is in contemplation to discontinue the practice of permitting Soldiers to retain ball cartridge in their barrack rooms?
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he wished to ask the hon. Member for Pontefract, Whether, as his Marriages of Affinity Bill extends to Ireland and Scotland, it is his intention to proceed with the second reading on so early a day as to-morrow?
 Mr. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he
 436
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  agreed that a Committee was the proper tribunal. but then it should be made a condition that the losing party should pay the costs. It was because he and his friends had al ready been heavily mulcted, owing to the unjust constitution of that tribunal, that they appealed to the House to settle the matter at once.
 MR. CRAWFORD  remarked, that the course taken by the Government on the subject would prove very satisfactory to his constituents. Although there were not many manufacturers in the city the large warehousemen were deeply interested in the Bill, so far as it would render them liable to prosecution for innocently selling articles which had fraudulent trade marks upon them; and he was glad, therefore, to hear that they would have an opportunity allowed them of stating their views to a select committee.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that he rose to state that his hon. and learned Friend, the Attorney General, who had been unfortunately obliged to leave the House, would lend his assistance in the consideration of this subject, upon which he had already bestowed much attention.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he merely rose for the purpose of saying that the Government had no objection to assent to the course which the hon and learned Gentleman proposed. A Bill had been introduced last Session with a view to remedy the evils of which he complained. That Bill had passed through the other House of Parliament, but it had not been proceeded with in the House of Commons owing to that absence of inquiry into details which it was the hon. and learned Gentleman's intention to secure by referring his Bill to a Select Committee. The Government had given notice of the introduction of a measure that very evening on the same subject, which they should; be glad to refer to the same Select Committee, so that probably out of the two measures, and as the result of the investigation, a practical and satisfactory scheme might be devised. Although, however, almost all persons were agreed in condemning the forgery of trade marks as a crime,
 446 447
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he was surprised to find himself misunderstood by the right hon. Member for Kerry (Mr. H Herbert), who, as long ago as April, 1831, was selected as the organ of the Irish landlords for submitting a petition for a similar measure to the consideration of the then Attorney General, Sir John Romilly. Instead of encouraging the encumbrance of estates the Bill would limit the amount to half the value.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he rose to ask for leave to bring in a Bill for authorizing transferable debentures to be charged upon land in Ireland. The subject was one which he should not have had the presumption to bring before the House, were it not that to which of all others he had
 437 "With regard to the system of land debentures proposed by Mr. Scully's plan, we conceive that it is not within the range of the inquiry submitted to us, and therefore do not recommend it, There is not in England any adequate machinery for ascertaining judicially the value of land, through a public map or general valuation, such as exists in Ireland. Although we do not recommend the adoption of a judicial system of land debentures, we think it right to observe that there may be facilities for trying it in a proper manner in Ireland, where strong opinions have been expressed in its favour." 438 Cridit Fonder Westminster Review 439 "A statutory enactment conferring all the powers which a mortgagee now usually possesses under distinct provisions of his deed, coupled with a registration of the charge, as well as of the land, might probably be framed so as to give to charges on land the same advantages and the same facilities of transfer as those which attach to railway debentures." "I think that the creation, transfer, and extinguishment of charges on land ought to be rendered as simple as the transfer of the land itself; but I have not considered any plan for effecting that object, except the one proposed by Mr. Vincent Scully. I should regard this as an important feature of any permanent system of land transfer, and I think it would greatly increase the value of securities on land, and tend to diminish the average rate of interest at which landed proprietors would be able to obtain advances." 440
 MR. COX  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether it is the intention of the Government to introduce this Session a Bill to amend the Representation of the People in Parliament?
 MR. MASSEY  said, he should have been inclined to vote for the second reading of the Bill if its merits had not already been investigated before a Select Commit tee. Since then three attempts bad been made to re-open that decision, but unsuccessfully, and that was a fact to which due weight should be attached. No very im-
 434
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  seconded the Motion. The supporters of the measure were not asking for any special power in asking for a power of issuing land debentures, and he thought there was every reason to induce the Legislature to listen to those whose object it was to ameliorate the burdens upon land. By the existing system, not only was the interest on money borrowed on land enhanced, but the general expense of management much increased. It had been calculated that this increase amounted to as much as 1½ per cent, and he believed that, by a well-considered measure, the interest on loans on the security of land might be lowered so much as to form a sinking fund sufficient to pay off a mortgage in one generation. A similar plan had been tried in Prussia and in France with great success. It was introduced into Prussia by Frederick H. at a time when, consequent on the great war in which Prussia had been engaged, the condition of Prussian landlords was no better than that of Irish landowners immediately after the famine. And the plan had been productive of great benefit. The same thing had been tried in France also with great success. He knew but of two objections to the plan, first, that it would give too great facilities to borrowers. But mortgages were frequently resorted to to pay off debts already incurred, and the existence of a system which rendered borrowing expensive added to the evils which the landowner was suffering under. In the next place it was objected that the debentures would go into currency, but that objection would equally apply to bankers' cheques and bills of exchange.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, he begged to second the Motion.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that no doubt the hon. Member for the County of Cork had given great consideration and attention to the subject; but, at the same time, as the House did not yet know the details of his Bill, the discussion of the proposition had better not be entered upon until some further opportunity.
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  said, he considered that as their decision had been given once, it ought to be final. He therefore supported the Amendment.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Mr. Speaker, it is not the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce a Bill on that subject this Session.
 MR. SOTHERON-ESTCOURT  remarked, that a great deal might be said in favour of abolishing the declaration; but the subject had such wide ramifications that he held that it was a matter which should be dealt with by the Government, and not by a private Member. It was not to be expected that a private Member could give the House those assurances and guarantees which would enable them to feel justified in removing the declaration from the statute book. If the Government would have the subject investigated by their law officers and would give the House an assurance that there was no ground for apprehending danger to the Church from the abolition of the declaration, he should regard it as upon a different footing from that which it now occupied, introduced year after year as the crotchet, apparently, of an individual Member, with no further information or guarantee upon which the House could proceed.
 MR. LYGON  said, that the circumstances under which the Bill then came before the House were such as to induce hon. Member to consider very carefully the course which they should adopt with regard to it. As on a former occasion, the hon. Member for Pontefract had moved the second reading of the Bill without stating the grounds on which he introduced it; so now he had abstained from stating his reasons for embracing Scotland and Ireland in its provisions. Considering that it was the first occasion upon which it had been proposed that the alteration of the Law should extend to Scotland and Ireland, it was scarcely courteous to bring on the second reading of the Bill at a time when many Scotch and Irish Members were unavoidably absent from the House, and no sufficient opportunity had been given for their constituents to express their opinions upon it. The extreme haste with which the hon. Member who had charge of the Bill pressed it on, showed that he entertained a lurking belief, that if the subject was fairly discussed after due notice, it would be very difficult to pass such a measure. There was no reason, either, for hurrying on the Bill, as the Order Book for Wednesdays, as well as for every other day in the Session, was a comparative blank. Although, in compliance with the resolution which was passed last year, that it was inexpedient to make a change which would place the Law in the three kingdoms Upon a different footing, the provisions of the Bill had been extended to Scotland and Ireland; yet, while it was declared that in England marriages contracted before the Act were to be valid, such was not to be the case in Scotland; and while in England vested rights were saved, there was in the Bill no similar provision with regard to Scotland and Ireland. He (Mr. Lygon) objected to the Bill, as he believed it would lead to endless litigation, and confuse and disturb many family arrangements. He was very unwilling to make that House the arena of theological controversy; but he thought that they were entitled to ask the supporters of the change, why, if they defended it on the ground that marriage with the sister of a deceased wife was not prohibited by express words of Holy Scripture, they did not ask Parliament to sanction marriage in at least fourteen other cases in which it was forbidden, but in which no such express prohibition existed; and more particularly why they had abandoned the case of marriage with a deceased wife's niece,
 460 461 v ab initio 462 privilegium
 Mr. HBADLAM  said, as he had always voted in favour of the Bill since he first had the honour of a seat in the House, and as his opinion with regard to it remained unchanged by anything he had read or heard, it was his intention to vote for the present measure, and to state shortly the reasons which induced him to do so. In the first place, with reference to what was called the theological argument—that is to say, the construction to be placed on the chapter in Leviticus—he was not going to enter into any minute discussion, partly because the subject was a very unsuitable one for the House, but more especially because he did not think any passage could be found in Scripture from which a conclusion could be deduced. If in the pages of the Bible there was to be found any express recognition of these marriages, as was some-
 467 468
 Mr. LYGON : No, I said that the Bill of that year had been introduced in consequence of the inconvenience arising from the temporal Courts not being cognizant of these marriages.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, that impression was totally erroneous. The Act of 1835 was not introduced in consequence of any evils that had arisen from these marriages, but from a fear lest one of these marriages should be set aside in a case where a title to a dukedom and a great estate depended upon the marriage remaining valid. The first object of the Bill was to make this particular marriage, which had then taken place, valid. With respect to future marriages, the Bill, as originally introduced, so far from making them invalid in consequence of evils that had been found to arise from them, actually made it easier to contract them for the future; for it contained a clause, that unless proceedings were instituted within a certain time, a marriage of this kind should be valid. It was proposed, however, subsequently in the House of Lords, that whilst all past marriages were made valid, all subsequent ones should be made absolutely void. The noble Lord who introduced the Bill, having
 469 470
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, the Bill would not be looked upon with favour in Scotland, totally irrespective of religious opinions; and therefore he felt it his duty to oppose the second reading.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, that the promoters of the Bill furnished the House with no valid reason for interfering with the existing law. The hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Plymouth (Mr. Collier) had dealt largely in general principles. He started with this grand principle—he said the natural theory was that any man might marry any woman. The hon. and learned Gentleman, however, subsequently admitted that there might be some restrictions on that universal liberty, and proceeded to lay down what those were. He then gave the House a number of reasons by which they might test whether those restrictions were sound, and whether, in the case under consideration, a man might avail himself of the universal liberty given to any man to marry any
 471
 LORD ROBERT CECIL : Or perhaps, rather, set it aside—
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he would beg the hon. Gentleman's pardon, as he had misrepresented him. The hon. and learned Gentleman argued that from Leviticus no restriction or prohibition could be shown; and he also stated that there was no prohibition in the New Testament. Well, he now begged to apply the same argument to his present clients, the bigamists. Was there any prohibition in Leviticus, or any in the New Testament, against a man marrying two wives instead of one? He had never heard any argument on the subject, and he thought the hon. and learned Gentleman must take the same view of it as he did himself. The hon. and learned Gentleman had said that these marriages must be forbidden either by revelation or by a moral instinct accepted by all mankind. He had shown that the bigamist might avail himself of revelation equally with the man who wanted to marry his deceased wife's sister. He now wanted to know whether the prohibition against marrying two wives was a moral instinct accepted by all mankind. It was accepted by Englishmen and Continental nations, he admitted; but the vast majority of the human race were in favour of marrying more wives than one; so that it was impossible to say that it was prohibited
 472 473
 MR. BUXTON  said, the right hon. Gentleman who had spoken last had endeavoured to show that his hon. and learned Friend had argued for absolute liberty of marriage, whereas, what he really urged was that  prima facie 483
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he hoped that his hon. Friend would not press this Bill upon the House. He wished, however, to take that opportunity of correcting an error into which be had fallen when the measure was introduced. He (Mr. Newdegate) had said, that last Session, when the second reading of the Bill was proposed, it was passed in a not very full House by a majority of thirteen; and this was true. But it was to a previous period that he alluded when he stated that the Bill had attracted little attention in the House, and had been rejected by a majority of two to one by the House of Lords. The Bill was certain to be thrown out by the other House of Parliament; but only last Session, through some accident or another, by a majority of eleven. The Bill proposed to repeal the declaration taken by all persons who are admitted to corporate offices that they will never exercise any power, authority, or influence which they might possess by reason of such offices to the detriment of the Church of England as by law established, or disturb the bishops or clergy of that Church in any rights to which they may be by law entitled. He wished to point out to the House that the declaration in no way fettered the free action of any man as a citizen, as an elector, or as a Member of that House; but it did prevent persons invested with corporate functions and with the power attached to those functions from exercising that power to the detriment of the Church of England. The power of the corporation was conferred by the State, and he held that the State had a perfect right to define the purposes to which the powers which it conferred should be exercised. Let them look at the consequences
 456 "I will never exercise any power or authority which I may possess by virtue of the office of to injure or weaken the Protestant Church as it is by law established in England, or to disturb the said Church." 457
 Mr. SELWYN  seconded the Amendment.
 Mr. BLACKBURN  said, he rose to record his protest against the discussion of the subject having been brought on with so short a notice, especially as it was now sought to extend the operation of the proposed change to Scotland and Ireland—at a time, too, when many of the Scotch and Irish Members were absent from town. The hon. and learned Member for Plymouth (Mr. Collier) while setting the Gospel above the law, had declared that even if the Gospel contained an express prohibition of these marriages, he should feel himself at liberty to disregard it. But the fact was, that the Scriptures, rightly under stood, did contain an express prohibition, to discover which it was only necessary to admit, as they did with all Acts of Parliament, that wherever the word "men" was used the injunctions must be taken as extending to women also. Altering the words so as to impart to them this meaning, it would be seen that the interpretation put on the last verse of the passage in the 18th Chapter of Leviticus, verses 15 to 18, by the hon. Member for Plymouth, was at best a piece of sophistry, and led by inevitable and logical sequence to the sanctioning of polygamy. The Bill was not a mere alteration of t e law of 1835; it was an alteration of what had been the law of England and Scotland for the last 300 years, and of Christendom since Christianity arose. He trusted the House would throw out the Bill, and never again permit such a disagreeable subject to be introduced.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES : It is unnecessary that I should make an elaborate speech to vindicate the course I have pursued in bringing in this Bill, more especially as in the course of this debate hon. Members have spoken with so much ability that I would rather hear any one than myself. Perhaps, however, it will only be
 485 486 487 v 488 "From the best consideration which I can give to it, it appears to me that Lord Bury's Bill offers a fair and reasonable compromise amid the conflicting opinions respecting the marriage of a deceased wife's sister." "I confess that when I entered upon this inquiry I had not an idea that the case of those who wish a change in the present marriage law was so strong. I had thought that the opinions of grave and learned students of the Bible were more equally divided; and that as authorities were pretty evenly balanced, they who had contracted such marriages must bear the inconveniences arising from doubtful interpretation. But I do not think so now. Confirmed by the testimony of antiquity, and the judgment of the most considerable interpreters at the Reformation, and since the Reformation, I now believe there is no reasonable room for doubt—that there is no verse in the Bible of which the interpretation is more sure than that of Leviticus xviii. 18; and I think
 489
 MR. SPOONER  said, it was always with great hesitation that he differed from his right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Walpole), who seemed to think that these marriages were forbidden by Scripture. He had given to the subject the most anxious consideration, and had come to a different conclusion. He looked on the question as a social question: and, from what he had learned from many clergymen with regard to the large town of Birmingham, he believed that the prohibition against these marriages operated injuriously among the poorer classes. His right hon. Friend had referred to what had fallen from him on former occasions as to the immoral effect produced by the law as it now stands amongst the working classes in great towns. He quoted some figures from the Report of the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the state and operation of the Law of Marriage, showing that the working classes were in very small proportion interested in that law. The accuracy of such a statement depends entirely where the line between the middle classes, as the Report calls them, and the working classes was drawn. He would state a case which, from the very best authority he had been informed, was not a singular case. A mechanic living in a cottage lost his wife, who left him, perhaps, two or three children. His work necessitated his absence from morning to night; it was necessary that he should seek some one to take charge of his children without cost, and, naturally, he looked to his wife's sister. She came, attended the family, and it was almost impossible that such close intimacy should not originate affection. Was it then just that a connection not prohibited by the Word of God should be prohibited by man? And would not the effect of such marriages being prohibited be to produce far more immorality than would be caused by the proposed alteration?
 MR. COLLIER : All I said was that no argument from the New Testament had been adduced against these marriages.
 MR. COLLIER : I beg pardon. I did not.
 MR. COLLIER  said, he thought the hon. Member for Pontefract (Mr. Milnes) had exercised a wise discretion in the manner in which he had brought the
 463 Primâ facie 464 465 "We do not find that the persona who contract these marriages, and the relations and friends who approve them, have a less strong sense than others of religions and moral obligation, or are marked by laxity of conduct.……These marriages will take place when a concurrence of circumstances give rise to mutual attachment; they are not dependent on legislation." 466
 Mr. WALPOLE  said, he doubted whether the declaration afforded any real protection to the Church; but, on the other hand, he could not see that it formed a serious grievance to the Dissenters. It was perhaps a matter of little consequence what was done with the declaration; but it was always undesirable to re-open vexed questions which had once been settled by the Legislature, and the removal of a condition which had hitherto accompanied the appointment of persons to corporate offices would tend by implication (though, no doubt, erroneously) to the conclusion that Dissenters might, by virtue of their official position, do what was detrimental to the Church. For these reasons he should support the law as it stood.
 MR. WALPOLE :—Sir, I think that nothing could be more satisfactory than the admirable tone and temper which my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department has brought to bear on this question, and, feeling very strongly on it, I will endeavour to imitate that tone in the few observations which I have to address to the House. There was one part of my right hon. Friend's speech with which I was particularly pleased. I think it is not desirable that a question of this kind should come before us year after year, disturbing the marriage relations of the country, or giving rise to the supposition that there is a probability of their being disturbed. Therefore, what-
 476 de novo prima facie 477 status Will Reformatio Legum Ecclesiasticarum 478 onus probandi prima facie "No marriage which has been celebrated since the passing of the 5 & 6  Will 479 Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire 480 "Takes off the rose "From the fair forehead of an innocent love, "And sets a blister there; makes marriage vows "As false as dicers' oaths: O! such a deed, "As from the body of contraction plucks "The very soul; and sweet religion makes "A rhapsody of words." prima facie prima facie 481 482
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he had not been aide to collect from the speeches which they had just heard whether the Bill was to go beyond the Protestant Dissenters. He wished to warn the hon. and learned Gentleman and the right hon. Baronet how they interfered with Roman Catholic marriages, which were celebrated in a manner satisfactory to the people of the country.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, in explaining the grounds on which I support this Bill, I decline to enter into the theological argument. I entirely agree with the noble Lord that the theological ground is too doubtful a one on which to decide this question. The theological argument is one on
 474 de novo 475
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he did not think the Bill was of sufficient importance to require that it should be adopted by the Government. In his opinion the grievance of the declaration had been much exaggerated on the one side and the danger of its abolition on the other. The grievance was rather theoretical than practical, and the apprehensions entertained by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr.Newdegate), as to the effect of suppressing the declaration, had no substantial foundation. The declaration afforded no real protection to the Established Church, and he did not think that it was ever seriously proposed as such. The Test and Corporation Act was repealed at the instance of his noble Friend the Foreign Secretary as a private Member; and this declaration was not pro posed by him, but it was probably thought at the time that it would quiet the apprehensions entertained as to its effect. He agreed with the hon. Member for War-
 458
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : I rise to ask leave of the House to introduce a Bill on the subject of the solemnization and registration of marriages in Ireland. Having towards the close of last Session introduced a similar Bill, and stated the objects of the measure, probably I shall best consult the convenience of the House by merely asking permission for the introduction of the same Bill, and deferring any lengthened remarks until the second reading. The main object of the Bill is to remove certain inconveniences and difficulties which have prevailed for a number of years with regard to marriages in Ireland, more especially with regard to marriages celebrated between persons belonging
 490
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, that in answer to the hon. Gentleman he had to state that the Bill in two respects proposed to deal with Roman Catholic marriages. First, as regarded their registration, it proposed those clauses which were agreed upon in Committee of the House last year; and secondly, it proposed the repeal of the old Act of George II., with regard to what were called mixed marriages, upon very much the principle which had been suggested by the late Lord Chancellor in the House of Lords, and to introduce provisions in place of that Act.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he had no intention of opposing the introduction of the Bill. What he had told the House the other night was, that it was his intention to introduce a Bill for the registration of Births and Deaths; but that a Bill for the registration of Marriages was under the consideration of Government, and he hoped to be able to introduce that Bill also. He quite agreed with what had fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman as to the grievances of the Protestant Dissenters; and if the House would give a general system of registration in Ireland, great relief would be afforded.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, that the best; proof that the Nonconformists were suffering under a real grievance was the passing of the Indemnity Act. The declarations afforded no protection whatever to the Church, but were rather a source of weakness, diminishing her usefulness, which after all was the only thing that would preserve her position. As she enlarged and widened her sphere of action she could afford to give others the civil equality which was due to them. He was sure the hon. Member for Warwickshire might dismiss his alarms, as the passing of the Bill would not have the slightest possible effect in the direction he feared.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, he had always supported a measure of the kind now before the House, on grounds that more peculiarly applied to England. He wished his hon. Friend had still confined his Bill to England; but if it were the opinion of the House that the change in the law ought to extend to the whole kingdom, he should not oppose the extension of the measure to Scotland. That, however, was a matter which would be more properly discussed in Committee on the Bill.
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, he rose to move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months. The object of the measure was to turn the old burial-ground into
 492
 MR. WHITE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, When the Return relating to Salaries, Pensions, &c., agreed to by the House on the 1st of March last will be laid upon the table?
 MR. PEEL  said, it was a long time since this Report had been ordered; but he could assure his hon. Friend that there bad been no intentional delay in getting it prepared. He expected that it would be ready by about the middle of next month.
 MR. COWPER  said, he was not prepared to produce this correspondence, which was
 496
 MR. PEEL  said, his attention had not been called to the case alluded to. But the delay in the appointment of a Taxing Master was attributable to the Treasury, who thought it their duty to ascertain whether, in consequence of the decrease of business in the Irish Court, the duty could not be performed by two Taxing Masters instead of three, and whether the appointment should not be considered of a temporary rather than of a permanent character. The Lord Chancellor having advised the appointment to be made permanently, it was not the intention of the Treasury to delay any longer the appointment. They, however, reserved to themselves the right, whenever the next vacancy arose, of inquiring into the whole subject and the number of Taxing Masters required for the proper discharge of the duties. He was quite ready to produce the correspondence in question if the hon. and learned Gentleman moved for it.
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, that he rose to move for a New Writ for the election! of two members for the city of Gloucester. In submitting the case of this ancient city to the attention of the House, he could not but express his opinion that the conduct adopted by the House towards the constituency and great mercantile community of Gloucester had been both unjust and unconstitutional. He was not about to offer any defence, extenuation, nor even apology, for the malversation of the franchise which had so disgraced Gloucester; but he begged to call the attention of the House to a fact of which it must be perfectly aware, that the plague-spot prevailed not only within the walls of Gloucester, but within the walls of some forty or fifty other places. Up to that moment the House had viewed such matters with stolid indifference. Attempts had, indeed, been made to deal with the evil, but they had all ended in one miserable Bill which had been a miserable failure.
 499 500 pax vobiscum! 501 502 "My canvass was not on the Change nor in county meetings, nor in the clubs of this city; it was in the House of Commons; it was at the Custom-house; it was at the Council; it was at the Treasury; it was at the Admiralty. I canvassed you through your affairs, and not your persons. I was not only your representative as a body; I was the agent, the solicitor of individuals. I ran about wherever your affairs could call me; and, in acting for you, I often appeared rather as a shipbroker than as a Member of Parliament. There was nothing too laborious or too low for me to undertake. The meanness of the business was raised by the dignity of the object. If some lesser matters have slipped through my fingers, it was because I filled my hands too full, and in my eagerness to serve you, took in more than my hands could grasp. Am I to be 'How d'ye doed' out of my seat by this gentleman?" 503 "That after great sufferings and trials, the vast expense of treasure and blood for our rights and liberties and privileges of Parliament, such persons in whom we have already lodged our trusts, and who have sufficiently manifested their endeavours to perform the same—namely, Nathaniel Stephens, Esq., Sir John Seymour, Edward Stephens, Esq., John Stephens, Esq., and the Right Hon. Thomas Lord Fairfax—have been since December, 1648, and still are denied the freedom of sitting and voting in Parliament. The restoration of which Members we desire with all freedom to their former capacity, and declare that we shall not otherwise consent to pay tax or other impositions, or hold ourselves bound by any law to be made without the restitution of these our representatives, with a supply of all vacancies by a free election according to the fundamental laws and constitutions of this nation, it being the undoubted birthright of all the freeborn people of England that no tax or other imposition be exacted from them but by their consents had by their representatives in a full and free Parliament." "That Mr. Speaker do issue his warrant to the Clerk of the Crown to make out a new writ for the electing of two citizens to serve in this present Parliament for the city of Gloucester, in the
 504
 MR. SERJEANT PIGOTT  said, that when a Resolution similar to that under discussion had been proposed last Session
 509 ex post facto 510
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL : Sir, I think it desirable that a few words should be said to correct a total misapprehension of a matter of law into which the hon. Gentleman opposite (The O'Donoghue) has fallen. He implies, by the terms of his notice of Motion, and has more distinctly stated in his speech, that all masters of British merchant vessels who may have run the blockade with articles contraband of war on board have been guilty of illegal acts, in violation of Her Majesty's Proclamation, which the Government of this country, having their intention called to them, ought to have interfered to prevent, but had not done so. He has also suggested that the authorities of the port of Nassau were subject to serious blame for having permitted ships under similar circumstances to call at that port and to take in supplies, and to have the benefit of calling and remaining there when they had on board articles contraband of war, which the hon. Gentleman seemed to suppose that Her Majesty's Proclamation had made it illegal for them to have on board, and which, therefore, they could not be permitted to carry without a violation of neutrality. In all these respects the hon. Gentleman has totally misunderstood the effect of the Proclamation and the law. This country is governed by law, and except as far as Her Majesty's Government have powers by law to control the action of private British subjects, whether masters of ships or others, of course they are perfectly powerless in the matter. The only law
 530 "An Act to prevent the enlisting and engagement of Her Majesty's subjects to serve in foreign service, and the fitting out or equipping in Her Majesty's dominions vessels for warlike purposes without Her Majesty's licence." 531 "It is not the practice of nations to undertake to prohibit their own subjects, by previous laws, from trafficking in articles contraband of war. Such trade is carried on at the risk of those engaged in it, under the liabilities and penalties prescribed by the law of nations, or particular treaties." "The Government was not bound to prevent it, and could not have prevented it without a Manifest departure from the principle of neutrality, and is in no way answerable for the consequences."
 Chancellor Kent  in his hardly less admirable work says—
 "It is a general understanding that the Powers at war may seize and confiscate all contraband goods, without any complaint on the part of the neutral merchant, and without any imputation of a breach of neutrality in the neutral Sovereign himself. It was contended, on the part of the French nation in 1796, that neutral Governments were bound to restrain their subjects from selling or exporting articles contraband of war to the belligerent Powers. But it was successfully shown, on the part of the United States, that neutrals may lawfully sell at home to a belligerent purchaser, or carry, themselves, to the belligerent Powers contraband articles, subject to the right of seizure  in transitu
 THE O'DONOGHUE  said, he should be sorry to press for the return in opposition to the wishes of the Government. It was evident, however, that the hon. and learned Gentleman who had last spoken, and the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, were not quite of one mind. In opposition to the law, as stated by the hon. and learned Solicitor General, the hon. Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs had alleged, as one reason The Solicitor General
 532
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he hoped that if any British vessels had, as a matter of fact, been destroyed or captured while endeavouring to break the blockade a statement of the circumstances would be given to the House.
 THE O'DONOGHUE  said, he rose to move an Address for Returns relative to the number of vessels that had, during the past six months, broken, or attempted to break the blockade of the Southern ports of America. He hoped Her Majesty's Government would see the propriety of laying those Returns on the table. Unless they were produced, it would be impossible to discuss fully many questions likely to arise in the present unfortunate position of affairs in America. The production of the Returns would go a long way towards enabling them to form an accurate opinion on such questions as the efficiency or non-efficiency of the blockade of the Southern ports, and whether the Government had endeavoured to carry out that policy of neutrality to which it was pledged both by Her Majesty's Proclamation and its own declarations. It was an imperative duty of the Government to furnish the most reliable evidence on all these points. It had been frequently stated that the blockade was ineffective, and that therefore an English fleet ought to be despatched to break it; and an hon. Member had given
 527 The Times 528 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, that She will be graciously pleased to give directions that there be laid before this House, a Return of the number of British Vessels, with the names, as far as can be ascertained, of their Captains and Owners respectively, that have succeeded, within the past six months, in running the Blockade of the Southern Ports of America: "Similar Return as to the British Vessels that have been captured or destroyed in the attempt to break the Blockade: "And, Return of the number and description of British Vessels, if any, that have put into the Port of Nassau, N. P., and other Colonial Ports, laden with articles contraband of war, and with supplies for the Confederate States, and that have been permitted to refit and supply themselves with stores by the authorities in those places, in contravention of the Queen's Proclamation, and of the neutrality which it is the expressed desire of Her Majesty's Government to uphold."
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, If he will lay upon the table of the House a copy of all Correspondence between the Treasury, the Office of Works and Buildings, and the Office of Woods, in reference to the Report of the Thames Embankment Commissioners, and any Bill to be founded or introduced on such Report.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he believed that the 12th clause was sufficient for that purpose; but he would promise, on the part of the promoters, to consent to the insertion of any further restriction which might be deemed necessary.
 MR. LEFROY  said, he was also a Member of the Committee which had passed resolutions on this subject. According to his recollection, the Committee had made no report of the kind stated by the hon. Member for the King's County (Mr. Hennessy). He could only attribute the statement of the hon. Member to the fact that he hail but rarely attended the Committee, and knew but little of its proceedings. The argument of the hon. Member, therefore, went for nothing, as it was founded upon error. For himself, he felt bound to say that the statement made by the right hon. Baronet appeared, upon the whole, most
 522
 MR. LAYARD  was understood to state that some particulars of the nature referred to would be included in the papers promised by the Government.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he regretted he was unable to give the papers asked for by the hon. Member. He did not think it at all desirable to enter into a discussion of the subject of the blockade that evening, seeing that notice of a Motion had been given
 529
 MR. DISRAELI : The Government cannot take any other course in this matter than that which the right hon. Gentleman intends to pursue. The suspension of a writ by one branch of the Legislature is an arbitrary and unconstitutional proceeding, and one to which recourse ought not to be had unless under exceptional circumstances, and with a clear conception of what is to be the policy of the House under the circumstances. Let me recall to the memory of the House what has taken place with regard to the borough we are now considering, and with regard to the borough of Wakefield. In 1859 Parliamentary Committees of inquiry reported against the returns for both Gloucester and Wakefield, and a Motion was made for the suspension of the writs. As the Motion was made in contemplation of Royal Commissions of inquiry into the circumstances which took place at the elections, the object of the suspension was obvious, and the Motion was entirely proper. When the year 1860 arrived, and the then Secretary of State laid upon the table of the House the Report of those two Royal Commissions, he stated it was the intention of the Government that no Motion should be made for a new writ for either of the boroughs without a week's notice. Shortly afterwards, another Member of the Government—the right hon. Gentleman who was then Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster and who now fills the office of Secretary of State for the Home Department—gave the House some clearer conception of the policy the Government intended to recommend; and it was this—that a notice of one week should be given in order that the Government should have an opportunity of recommending to the House, that the writ should be suspended for not less than five, nor more than ten years: and the House, with that policy before them, consented to
 507 508
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, that the part of the first question relating to postal communication would be answered by his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer. With reference to the gold discoveries in British Columbia, a Paper would shortly be laid upon the table which would give the latest information received from the Governor on the subject. It would fully confirm, but not add much to what was contained in the excellent accounts that had appeared in the columns of  The Times 495
 LORD FERMOY  said, he should oppose the second reading of the Bill. He would beg to remind his hon. Friend who had just sat down that the present rector of St. Giles was appointed in 1857, subse-
 493
 LORD FERMOY  said, he thought that Ireland would never be put on an equality with England in this matter until it had a measure for the registration of marriages, as well of births and deaths. No measure would be satisfactory that did not include such a registration. There were difficulties in the way of a registration of marriages, but they might be got over by cordial cooperation with the clergy. The late Sir Robert Peel had generally three courses before him. The right hon. Gentleman had six, and he must say that of the six he had chosen the worst. He did not mean to say that the right hon. Gentleman did not desire to select the best, but, unfortunately, he adopted the worst. Nothing could be more objectionable or more offensive to the people of Ireland, and especially to the poorer classes, than to employ the constabulary for working the measure. He did not think there was any use in persevering with a measure of that kind.
 525
 MR. BEECROFT  seconded the motion.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he agreed with his right hon. Friend and with the hon. and learned Gentleman, that it was not expedient to leave questions of the kind to be dealt with according to the mere
 511
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he would remind the right hon. Gentleman that he had himself said there could not be extensive corruption without the entire community being implicated in it; and therefore the distinction he had drawn between a large number of voters and a large number of innocent voters was perfectly immaterial. But he (Mr. Bentinck) could not help pointing out that Parliament had dealt with small boroughs in a way that it would not venture to adopt towards large ones. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Berkeley) said, the conduct of the house towards Gloucester had been both unjust and unconstitutional. He (Mr. Bentinck) entirely agreed with that; for he believed, that if the House had acted towards Gloucester in a just and constitutional manner, it would have disfranchised it long ago. The House ought to be extremely obliged to the hon. Gentleman for his extreme candour; for he had told them that a large liberal constituency in which he was interested had resorted to every possible illegal act. He stated, it was true, that there were 1,200 electors who were perfectly honest, nay, he said they were perfectly "enamelled." Now, the House knew that enamel was often used to conceal imperfections, and he was afraid that such had been the case at Gloucester. He stated, also, that forty other borough constituencies were quite as bad as Gloucester. That was a very sweeping statement, but one which he believed was fully justified, as, if they searched the archives of the House, they would find that a much larger number than forty had been convicted of bribery within the last few years. He only hoped the hon. Gentleman would bear in mind the facts he had stated the next time he rose in his place eloquently to advocate the lowering of the borough franchise.
 MR. HADFIELD  (who spoke amid much interruption) was understood to insist that the course pursued in the examination of the witnesses at the inquiry was a straining of our constitutional law.
 MAJOR EDWARDS  said, it was his pleasing duty to move that Mr. Speaker do issue his warrant to the Clerk of the Crown to make out a new writ for the election of a burgess to serve in this present Parliament for the borough of Wakefield, in the room of William Henry Leatham, Esq., whose election has been determined void. Hon. Gentlemen opposite need not fear that he was about to inflict on the House along speech, because, from the manner in which the subject had been conceded by the Government, he considered it hardly necessary at all to go into the matter. [ Cries of
 MR. FREELAND  said, he would beg to ask the hon. Gentleman, before he answered the question just put to him, Whether any reports or despatches have been received from the Governor of Canada or the Governor of British Columbia with reference to the establishment of telegraphic communication or communication by water and railway between the north-west corner of Lake Superior and New Westminster, on the Fraser River?
 MR. GEORGE  said, he could not but compliment the right hon. Baronet upon the very clear and distinct explanation he had given of the provisions of the Bill; but, at the same time, he must express the great disappointment he had felt upon finding that it dealt with births and deaths only, and not with marriages. A large proportion of the time of the Committee last year was occupied in considering how the registration of marriages should be effected, and there could be no question about the desirability of introducing a system which should include these three classes. With regard to the machinery for registering births and deaths, the choice seemed to lie between the constabulary and the medical men. But he did not think the latter plan would work, as the medical men were already too much engaged in duties of a far more important character—attending the sick poor. He thought no more convenient mode could be adopted than that suggested by the Bill, but it was open to constitutional objections of a serious character. If power was given to the police to enter every house for the purpose of making the necessary inquiries, it was impossible to prevent their becoming acquainted with other matters than the mere subject-matter of their inquiries; and as they were always the principal agents in the detection and witnesses in the prevention of crime, the knowledge they obtained under the cover of the law would frequently be used by
 524
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that, as a Member of the Select Committee to which the question had been referred, he could not but express his regret that the right hon. Gentleman had not paid more attention to the evidence given before that Committee, and to the Report which dealt specifically with the Registration of Marriages. The conclusion at which they arrived was precisely the reverse of that embodied in the Bill which the right hon. Gentleman had introduced. They had condemned the employment of the constabulary, and they expressed a hope that an inefficient system would not be established merely because it might be more economical than another system. There was one disadvantage attending the Chief Secretary's proposal, which he was not surprised the right hon.
 521
 MR. NORRIS  said, he wished to be informed whether there was any law or usage of Parliament which would justify the Government in acceding to the Motion that Session any more than during the preceding. Whatever was the limit to the power of the House in that respect, he hoped they would exercise it to the utmost in the case of guilty Gloucester. If the hon. Member for Bristol could have proved that the guilt of 1859, as exposed before the Royal Commissioners, was unprecedented, or had occurred under circumstances of peculiar temptation, or if he could have shown that it was limited to one party or to one class of electors, then there might have been some reason for saying that Parliament ought not to punish the whole constituency of Gloucester for the offence of a few. It appeared, however, from the Report of the Commissioners, that from time immemorial the practice of bribery to a gross extent had prevailed at Gloucester. To such an extent, indeed, had it prevailed that in 1852, when the three candidates agreed to try the experiment of an election without bribery, the electors stigmatized the resolution as a conspiracy to rob them of their rights, and to get their votes for nothing. Although the Commissioners had no authority to inquire into the circumstances of any election prior to that of 1857, they ascertained that as early as 1816 one gentleman expended upwards of £20,000 to procure his return; that two years afterwards another spent £16,000; and that at every subsequent election bribery had been practised upon an extensive scale, sometimes openly and sometimes secretly, but always controlling the return of Members. Such a constituency deserved to be disfranchised, and that punishment would be inflicted if the House was really sincere, and the Government was honestly seeking to put down bribery and corruption. The hon. Member for Bristol had understated the number of electors who were bribed at the last election. The persons whose names were mentioned in the Report of the Commissioners amounted to 28 per cent of the whole available constituency, and the list included men of all parties and all classes, from an alderman of the borough down to the humblest freeman. Under these circumstances he thought it was unworthy of the Government to consent to the issue of a writ upon that occasion.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, be also was of opinion that the measure should he accompanied by a registration of marriages. As regarded the succession to property, a registration of births and deaths without a registration of marriages would be useless. The only other use of a registration of births and deaths was as a means of numbering the people and collecting statistics. But if that was the object in view, the expense should not be thrown on the county cess, but on the Consolidated Fund. The police of Ireland were, be admitted, ill paid, but their pay should be increased in some other way than by employing them in registering births and deaths in Ireland. He would advise the right hon. Gentleman to withdraw the Bill, and to introduce a Bill for the registration of births, deaths, and marriages.
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, he also wished to compliment the right hon. Gentleman for the lucid statement in which he had introduced the Bill. He would also congratulate the House, and especially the Irish Members, that from the period of the Session at which the Bill had been introduced, they had a prospect of obtaining some useful legislation on a question of much importance. He accepted the measure as an instalment, and though he would have liked to see the registration of marriages included in it, he was not dissapointed that the right hon. Baronet had not attempted hastily to deal with so difficult a subject. He thought the clergymen of all denominations should have been intrusted with the work of registration rather than the police; but that was a detail into which he would not then enter.
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, I beg to give notice that on Tuesday, the 11th of March, I shall move the following Resolution:—
 "That this House will on a future day resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House, to consider the best mode of distributing the Parliamentary Grants for Education now administered by the Privy Council."
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Was the Lord Chancellor of Ireland consulted by Her Majesty's Government as to issuing the pending Commission with reference to the Courts of that Country; did he decline to be named on that Commission; and was there any objection to produce the Official Correspondence?
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he would now beg to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland if his attention has been directed to the case of Mercer  v 497
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he approved of the period of the Session and of the evening on which the Bill was introduced, but in other respects he saw little to recommend it. The hon. Member for the King's County had been corrected as to the Report of the Committee. Perhaps he (Mr. Vincent Scully) should also be set right as to his impression on the subject. But as he had moved for the Select Committee, and presided at its sittings, which, he regretted to say, were not very frequently attended by the bon. Member (Mr. Hennessy), he might be permitted to say he understood the conclusion of the Committee to be that marriages ought to be registered through the clergy of the respective denominations; but as to births and deaths, the Committee were unable to make any satisfactory report, and the matter was adjourned for further consideration. In his view, the constabulary were the worst body that could be selected for the purpose. He did not wonder that the right hon. Baronet should feel an hereditary attachment to the "Peelers" of Ireland, but he thought that any one who would take the trouble to read the evidence given before the Committee, especially that of Mr. H. Brownrigg, would come to the conclusion that that body
 523
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The hon. Baronet is right in supposing that the supplementary Estimates introduced last year absorbed nearly the whole of the probable surplus which was calculated upon when the regular financial statement was submitted to the House. He is also correct in saying that since that time, dining the present Session and in connection with the American question, an expenditure of between £900,000 and £1,000,000 has been submitted in the shape of supplementary Estimates. We have now arrived at the 20th of February, which is within less than six weeks of the close of the financial year, and I hope to be able to submit the usual financial statement of the coming year to the House before Easter. Under these circumstances I shall best consult the convenience of the House if I bring into one view the entire revenue and expenditure of the country. I do not therefore propose to make, on the part of the Government, any financial statement before the close of the present financial year.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that as regarded the question of the hon. Member (Mr. Caird) as to whether it was the intention of the Government to establish a general postal communication with British Columbia, by which he presumed the hon. Gentleman meant a postal communication by steam between San Francisco and British Columbia, he did not think that any sufficient reason had been shown why there should be a direct charge on the Estimates of this country for a service of that kind, but he was glad to say that such communication seemed to have been established, provisionally, at all events, by the colonists themselves. A letter of the 10th of January, received by a mercantile house in this country, had been communicated to the Postmaster General. In that letter it was stated that Messrs. Holiday and Flint, of San Francisco, had made an agreement with the two Colonies for six months for a fortnightly mail communication, at a charge of £10,000 for the six months, each Colony to pay £5,000.
 MR. COX  said, he should oppose the Bill, because it contained no provision to prevent building upon the consecrated ground.
 MR. COX  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. DEEDES  said, he should support the Bill, which conferred no power which could lead to the desecration of the burial-ground.
 MR. MASSEY  said, that it was impossible to contend that the rector would acquire, under the provisions of the Bill, any power of dealing with the consecrated portion of the ground; except, indeed, of keeping it in repair. All parties would remain in precisely the same position under the Bill as under the existing law, the only difference being that instead of being paid by the churchwardens their claim would be upon the rector of St. Giles's. It was only in respect of the portion of the ground appropriated to building purposes that a beneficial occupation could be enjoyed. Having been connected with the administration of the Burial Acts, he had an opportunity of observing the extreme hardships inflicted upon the parochial clergy, and especially the clergy of the Metropolis, by the operation of those Acts. While other parties came clamouring to that House for compensation and obtained it, the clergy of the Metropolis had submitted in dignified silence to a most serious loss. The effect of the Bill would be, that an income of about £200 a year would be derived from a small portion of the ground which had never been consecrated or used as a graveyard. Out of that income, however, he would be liable to make compensation to the parish of St. Pancras, and to keep the consecrated portion of the ground in repair. The rector would then have an income of about £150 a year. It was a just and equitable Bill, and he should vote for the second reading.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, that the police of Ireland had now little to do, and he thought they might usefully be employed in the way proposed by the Bill of the right hon. Gentleman, He did not think the employment of the constabulary would be so objectionable to the people of Ireland. He would not pledge himself to support all the details of the Bill; but he could not withhold from the right hon. Baronet the expression of his thanks for the early attention he had given to Irish legislation.
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether he intends to introduce a Bill this Session upon the subject of Bastardy in Ireland?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that it was not the intention of the Government to offer any opposition to the Motion, or to that other Motion of which notice had been given by an hon. and Gallant Member opposite (Major Edwards) for the issue of a writ for Wakefield; but lie must, at the same time, express his dissent from the opinion of the hon. Member, who had that evening advocated the claims of the constituency of Gloucester, that that city had been unjustly treated by the House. He did not think the House would feel that such was the case, having heard the terms—terms which we should be sorry to repeat—in which his hon. Friend had characterized the conduct of a large number of the voters. He could not admit that there was a sharp line of demarcation between the 400 electors whom the hon. Member allowed to be corrupt, and the 1,200 electors asserted to be perfectly pure. He believed that where corruption was found to prevail to a great extent—and the advocate for the borough admitted the corruption of one-fourth of the constituency—such a state of things would never be found to exist if the respectable portion of the constituency not only abstained from offering or receiving bribes themselves, but did their utmost to oppose all bribery and corruption on the part of others, and endeavoured by their own exertions to stop those evils. He was anxious to state, also, that the course which the Government were prepared to take upon the present occasion was not dictated by the opinion that these two boroughs had been adequately punished for the general corruption proved to prevail in them at the election of 1859. He believed, that if it was the determination of Parliament to place an effectual check on bribery, the strict rule hitherto acted on with regard to disfranchisement must be relaxed, and that, where general corruption was found to exist, disfranchisement ought to be had recourse to oftener than it has been, and the elective franchise transferred to some more fit body. He agreed with his hon. Friend that the elective franchise was highly to be valued, and no doubt it was convenient for a thriving city like Gloucester to be represented; but, whatever its interests might be, the trust reposed in a constituency might be justly forfeited by abuse. On the other hand, there might be cases where a large num-
 505 "That if, after the presentation of a report to Parliament by a commission of inquiry into corrupt practices at an election for any county, city, or borough, that extensive bribery has prevailed in such place, the House of Commons shall resolve that no writ ought to be issued for an election of a Member or Members for such place for a period of five years, no writ shall be issued for an election of a Member or Members for such place till the expiration of five years from the date of such resolution; provided that such provision shall not be held in any way to affect the right of Parliament either altogether to disfranchise such place, or to alter, suspend, or take away the right of voting of all or any of the electors therein." 506
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had referred to cases where there were a large number of electors who were not compromised by the corrupt practices complained of.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the Commission had been appointed in consequence of an Address from the House of Lords. He presumed that his hon. and learned Friend wished to know whether the Lord Chancellor of Ireland had been consulted about its composition. On that point he had been consulted. A correspondence on the subject had taken place between the Lord Chancellor of England and the Lord Chancellor of Ireland, but it was not of an official character. With regard to the second part of his hon. and learned Friend's question, he had to reply that it was at first proposed that the Lord Chancellor of Ireland should be one of the Commissioners; but on further consideration of the matter it was thought better to follow the rule that had been acted on in England, and not have the Lord Chancellor on the Commission, as it might become his duty to revise its proceedings and advise the Crown thereon.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, that as the House was about to sanction an additional expenditure of £973,000, caused by the expedition to Canada, he thought it right to call the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the fact that nearly the whole of the probable surplus spoken of by the right hon. Gentleman in his last financial statement had been appropriated by the supplementary estimates which were introduced last Session. He wished to ask, Whether it was the right hon. Gentle-
 498
 MR. CAIRD  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether he can confirm the reports which have recently appeared regarding Gold
 494
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, it was intended to introduce a Bill on the subject during the present Session.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : Sir, I rise to move for leave to bring in a Bill for the Registration of Births and Deaths in Ireland. This is a subject which is acknowledged to be of very great importance to Ireland. It is admitted that the registration of births and deaths would be of extreme advantage in the promotion of both the moral and material interests of that country. In fact, in a general point of view the advantages of a system of registration cannot be denied; and all I, on the part of the Government, want the House to do now, is to give Ireland that measure of justice which has already been meted out to England and Scotland. England, as the House is aware, was dealt with in this matter by the Registration Bill of 1836, and Scotland by the Registration Bill of 1854. The greatest possible inconvenience results from the present state of things in Ireland, which is, I believe, the only civilized country in Europe where there is no system of registration. Property has become alienated for want of a proper and careful registration. All parties and religious sects in Ireland are thoroughly agreed as to the necessity of it. The Protestants of the North are not less anxious for it than the Roman Catholics, who have been the greatest sufferers from the want of an efficient registration. The Registrar General, Mr. Donnelly, has informed me that he knows of numerous cases of Irishmen who have died in America and the colonies leaving property, but their poor relations in Ireland, although the undoubted heirs, have been unable to recover the property from the absence of the means of proving their connection with the deceased. This matter has been several times considered by the House, and also by a Select Committee. The noble Lord the Member for Cockermouth (Lord Naas), when Secretary for Ireland, introduced a Bill on the subject. In 1861 my right hon. Friend (Mr. Cardwell) the Chancellor of the Duchy, also introduced
 515 "Prior to 1861 the registry of birth and baptism was not attended to, and thousands of baptisms could not now be found." "A brother of mine having died intestate, his life was insured for a large sum of money; but, from the difficulty of obtaining the necessary certificate to satisfy the just requirements of the insurance office as to identity, it was most vexatious, protracted, and expensive. Year after year the public suffer very much for the want of a proper and safe mode of registry of births and deaths." "I take the liberty of addressing you relative to some general measure of registration of births and deaths. The importance of such a measure in a social and moral point of view can scarcely be overrated. The official and accredited records of parishes and congregations of the various sections of the Protestant Church in Ireland are
 516 "I have given my best attention to the accompanying Bill, and I have made in it several alterations which I think essential. I hope you may succeed in what for several years each succeeding Secretary for Ireland has failed to accomplish, and this measure, as prepared by you, will, I think, be found to answer admirably." 517 518 s s d s d 519 "Strength of the rural police of Great Britain, 13,437; cost, £788,800. Strength of the Irish constabulary, 12,124; cost, £430,084. Annual cost per man in Great Britain, £58 14 s d s d s d s d d d d 520 s d d s d s d
 SIR ROBERT PEEL , in reply, said, he could assure hon. Members that he did not intend to cast any slight upon the medical officers. His opinion simply was, that they could not discharge the duties so efficiently and so economically as the police. Indeed, from the immense area they had to go over, he doubted if the medical officers could do the work at all. As to the Irish constabulary, he was not wedded, personally, to the institution; but he believed it had done a great deal of good to the country. It had discharged its duties with great ability, and with very advantageous results. As to the charge thrown on the county cess, it was proposed
 526 d d d s d
 MR. WHITE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If he has received any plan or proposition from the Metropolitan Road Commissioners, for the removal of Toll Gates in and round London; and, if not, whether the said Commissioners have been called together for the special object of removing the existing obstructions?
 MR. DAWSON  said, that he had no desire to prolong the discussion, but no Irishman who was properly jealous of the honour of his country ought by his silence to admit that the destitution alleged by the hon. Member for Dungarvan (Mr. Maguire) on the first night of the Session and again that night was either so general, or of such a nature as to demand extraordinary intervention from the Legislature. He acknowledged that a great amount of distress had prevailed in consequence of the inclemency of the weather for the last two seasons, the partial failure of several crops, and the difficulty of saving and procuring fuel. He was willing to admit that the distress had not been confined to the western and southwestern parts, and that in the north of Ireland the weavers had suffered from a deprivation of their best market through the failure of the American trade, contemporaneous with a deficiency in the produce of the soil. While admitting a great amount of suffering, of which he had been a personal witness, he ascribed it to temporary and accidental causes, and he protested against any Imperial alms or rates in aid, while, as he believed, there were the means to provide relief within the compass and control of the resources of Ireland itself. It was only in exceptional cases of the direst necessity that it was the duty of the Government to feed a population, and he could not admit that this was one of those cases. In Londonderry, which he had the honour to represent, the actual number of paupers now receiving Union relief did not amount to a sixth of the number for which ordinary accommodation was provided. He had heard with pleasure the statement of his right hon. Friend the Chief Secretary, and he was glad to find that the statement of his right hon. Friend on a previous occasion, in which he avowed his reliance on the capability of Ireland, had been more than endorsed by the intelligent and reflecting portion of the Irish people. His right hon. Friend had truly stated that these were altered times, compared with the calamitous years 1846, 1847, and 1848, when a bankrupt proprietary had not the means, though he believed they had the inclination, to effect the salvation of the people, and that those who now possessed the rights of property were
 577
 THE O'CONOR DON  said, that he had not intended to take any part in the discussion, but the speech of the right hon. Baronet would compel him to address a few observations to the House. The right hon. Baronet had told the House that "this lament," as he had called it, had not come in any way from the landlords, or from the tenant-farmers of the country, or from any one at all acquainted with the real condition of the people; he said that it had been tinged with exaggeration, that it had been urged by passion, that the knowledge of the parties with whom it originated was limited and of a very subordinate character. Such having been the language of the right hon. Baronet, he (The 0'Conor Don) felt that as a landlord in the west of Ireland, and in one of its most distressed counties, he could not sit silent. Another reason was, that he had had the honour of waiting on his Excellency, as the head of a deputation, to lay before him the condition of the country. That deputation consisted not of parties unacquainted with the condition of the people, not of persons whose knowledge was limited or of a subordinate character; it was composed almost entirely of landlords, most of them resident, most of them magistrates, and most of them  ex officio ex officio 586 587 588 589 590
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, When he expects to receive the Report of the Iron Plate Committee, and whether he intends to lay it upon the, table of the House? They were building iron-cased ships of war to a great extent, and the time had arrived when they ought to know whether they were constructing them on a correct principle. It would be recollected that about the middle of last Session a Committee was appointed by the Admiralty, in conjunction with the War Office, to consider what should be the strength of the iron plates. The members of the Committee were able men, and they were presided over by an excellent officer, Sir John Hay. They had been sitting for several months, and it was time the public should be told what had been done. The Government were building these ships in ignorance of what the strength of the iron plates should be, which was beginning at the wrong end, and he should-like to know why the Report of the Committee had not been published before. As long ago as 1855, it was quite clear that men-of-war, however constructed, ought to be cased with iron, and yet, until the preceding year, no experiments were attempted upon a large scale. It appeared to him that if due energy had been exhibited, and if proper resources had been placed at the command of the Committee, they would have had a Report of one kind or another long since. He understood that the Committee had been making experiments with two guns on two plates, but in a matter of such vast importance they should have been experimenting with twenty guns on twenty different plates, and any required number of men should have been placed at their disposal. No blame was to be at-
 593
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether the Government intend to complete the pier of Holyhead, which had been so long promised, and when? Three years had elapsed since the necessity of a new pier at Holyhead, for the Dublin packets was recognised by the Government, and yet, up to the present moment, nothing had been done. He hoped the noble Lord would be able to inform the House when the works were to be commenced. Nothing could be more unsatisfactory than the existing state of things.
 MR. LYGON  said, he would beg leave to ask, When the notice of which the right hon. Gentleman spoke had been given to the Messrs. Longman?
 LORD NAAS  said, the hon. Gentleman had entirely mistaken the principle and object of the Bill. In 1852, in consequence of the prevalence of very great abuses, the Lord Lieutenant issued a commission, which, after patient inquiry, reported the existence of frauds of an extraordinary nature, and of chicanery and disreputable contrivances of every kind. In consequence of the outcry which that report gave rise to, a Bill was introduced into Parliament; and though it had not been successful, the efforts of all Chief Secretaries for Ireland since that date had been directed towards the same object. The aim which they had in view was to compel the present owners of tolls to do something for the money which they received in the way of affording accommodation to the public. It was impossible that the Bill could be used for the purpose stated by the hon. Member for Wexford, for tolls would only be sanctioned by the public where a public benefit was conferred, and the measure would have the direct effect of preventing private tolls from growing up as they had done under the old system. One of the clauses to which objection had been taken, was directed to the suppression of nuisances, such as those arising from the remnants and dregs of that classic celebrity, Don-nybrook fair. The fair green itself had been bought up by the inhabitants of the locality, but a patriotic individual owning a public-house in the neighbourhood—he was afraid the individual was a lady—had thrown open a field in which a small fair was annually held, and a great deal of drunkenness and irregularity took place. The Bill differed mainly in point
 603
 LORD DUNKELLIN  observed that every hon. Gentleman connected with Ireland must be aware of the want of accommodation for fairs and markets in that country. On various points in the Bill—such as the compulsory weighing, and the payment of tolls on articles sold—some exceptions might be taken; but he thought, on the whole, that the principle of the Bill was good, and he therefore hoped that hon. Members would settle their differences in committee.
 MR. COWPER  said, he quite agreed with the hon. Baronet that the appearance of Leicester-square was not such as could be desired for the head-quarters of foreigners; it had long been the stigma and opprobrium of the metropolis. The case was mysterious, and he was afraid he could not give any satisfactory account I of it. It appeared that there was some doubt as to the legal estate in the soil,; but some time since all the parties having rights over the square consented to the erection of a building, which they were told would be temporary and ornamental. A building had been erected, which certainly was not ornamental, and did not appear to be temporary; for although the lease had expired, there were yet no; signs of its removal. The Crown had no power to interfere, and he could, therefore, hold out no prospect of an alteration of the present discreditable state of things. He should regret that any square should be built upon, and had rather that the owners, imitating the example of the benchers of the Temple, should afford to the public opportunities of enjoying the advantages afforded by these open spaces.
 MAJOR KNOX  said, he thought the Bill an important measure, and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would succeed in passing it.
 MR. COWPER  said, he rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the London Coal and Wine Duties Bill, 1861, to authorize the formation of a road between Kensington and Bayswater, and to apply the proceeds of the Metropolis Improvement account towards defraying the cost of the construction of such a road. It was universally admitted that a road across Hyde Park was one of the earliest and most urgent wants of the Metropolis. Formerly there was no necessity for such
 607 608 609 "That the Chairman be directed to move the House, that leave be given to bring in a Bill to amend the London Coal and Wine Duties Continuance Act, 1861, and to authorize the formation of a Road between Kensington Gore and Bayswater, and to apply the proceeds of the Metropolis Improvement Fund Account towards defraying the cost of the construction of such Road."
 MR. COWPER  said, the road was to be a sunken road, and would run below the
 610
 LORD ALFRED CHURCHILL  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether the Government has received any communication with respect to the Australian Coal; and, if so, whether it will order that Her Majesty's Ships in those waters shall make trial of it; and, if any slight alterations are requisite in the machinery to adapt it better for the use of this Coal, whether the Admiralty will direct these to be made in Steam Ships now on the Australian Station?
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  had to state in reply, that the Admiralty had lately received a Report from the Colonial Office as to the merits of Australian Coal, and he should be extremely glad if that coal could be made available for Her Majesty's Ships on the Australian Station, He was sorry to say, however, that the Report was not very satisfactory, for it had been found that this coal had the effect of choking up the flues of the boilers, and the Officers were not particularly partial to it; but he was not without hope that this coal might be rendered useful to vessels while in the Australian waters. As to altering the boilers of vessels so as to adapt them for the better consumption of this coal, no particular objection could be urged; but it would not do to make any such alterations as to render the vessels inefficient on any other station.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Sir, in reply to the hon. and gallant Member for Chatham (Sir Frederic Smith), I cannot at this moment state exactly when the Report of the Iron Plate Committee will be made, because three very important experiments have still to come off. Those experiments are so important that the system of plating our iron-cased ships may be said to depend upon them. I believe they will be made next week. No fewer than three great authorities have proposed plans which must be thoroughly tested. One of these plans is by Mr. Fairbairn, who is himself a member of the Committee; another is by Mr. Scott Russell; and the third is by Mr. Samuda. We have prepared targets to represent sections of the side of a ship such as the  Warrior 594 cul de sac 595
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the case of the Derby Road School, Nottingham, to which the provisions of the Revised Code had been partially applied, notwithstanding the announcement that those provisions would be suspended until they had been submitted to the judgment of Parliament. The managers of the school in question had applied in the ordinary way for a grant of books and apparatus which would have been given as a matter of course under the operation of the old Code to all schools which had not received any grant for three years. The managers, in making the application, observed that it was more than three years since they had received a similar grant, adding that as the new Code, which cut off all book grants, had not come into operation, they apprehended there would be no difficulty on the part of the Committee of Education in complying with their request. In reply a printed form was sent to them—a circumstance which showed that the same answer was generally returned to similar applications—and in that communication, which was dated 29th January, 1862, they were told that the Committee had ceased to make grants in the shape of books and maps. Now, the matter might be a very small one, but it nevertheless involved a direct breach of faith with the House, the managers, and the public generally; and he could not but complain that the school in question had been dealt with as he had described on the mere fiat of the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Lowe), who had acted suddenly and precipitately, before Parliament could be invited to express an opinion on the subject. He might add that the managers of the schools might have been able to get on without the assistance of pupil-teachers, had it been deemed expedient to dispense with their services; but they could not do equally well without books and maps, which, though cheap, were more essential to the working of a school than anything else. The breach of faith involved in the proceeding was, therefore, he could not help thinking, quite as great as if the £250,000 expended on pupil-teachers had been withdrawn. There was another matter also with re-
 596
 MR. AYRTON  said, he wished to know whether it was to be a public road in every sense of the word, or whether it was to be a trench cutting through Kensington Gardens?
 MR. LEFROY  said, that he regretted that the discussion had not been allowed to terminate immediately after the close of the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary's able and convincing speech. He could not understand what object was to be served by prolonging the debate; and it was not pretended that a case had been made out for demanding assistance from the Imperial Exchequer. He had himself been much surprised to hear the hon. Member for Dungarvan's statements as to the alleged general and pressing distress in Ireland, and had felt strongly inclined at the time to get up and contradict some of them Coming from the centre of Ireland, he could state that food was abundant in that part of the country; and though fuel was certainly scarce, the deficiency of that article had been greatly made up for by the contributions of the landlords, especially of those whose estates were well-wooded. The right hon. Baronet had satisfactorily answered the allegation of the hon. Member for Dungarvan; and it was to be hoped that, while Ireland was
 591
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he thought no sufficient answer had been given on the part of the Government to the question of his noble Friend. The right hon. Gentleman opposite did not deny that under the existing regulations the application for books made by the managers of the school at Nottingham ought to have been complied with, and his defence for having met the application with a refusal was unsatisfactory. It was, he said, necessary to make some arrangements with the publishers, but then those arrangements ought not to have been anticipated on the presumption that the Revised Code would be adopted by Parliament. That was the ground of the complaint then made. The case adduced by his noble Friend was not, it was true, one of primary importance, nor so great as many
 598
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that it was evident that the opposition to this measure, and that the exaggerated accounts of the distress in Ireland, were carried on chiefly for the purpose of harassing the Chief Secretary for Ireland. By maintaining the present system of poor laws in Ireland, the Bill would maintain that which was one of the greatest boons conferred upon that country for centuries. He could un-
 605 in loco parentis
 MR. NEWDEGATE  complained, that the hon. Member for Sheffield had fixed the Bill on a Government night at this very early period of the Session, which was quite unusual. He thought the Bill ought to be fixed for its next stage on a Wednesday, in order that it might come on for discussion before two o'clock in the morning.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the English Minister at Turin had lately been directed to communicate to Baron Ricasoli any remonstrance on the part of the English Government against the late popular demonstration in Italy against the continuance of the temporal power of the Papacy; or whether, in point of fact, be had made any communication of that character to the Italian Minister, either alone or in conjunction with the French and Prussian Ministers? A remarkable correspondence between M. Thouvenel and Cardinal Antonelli had been lately published in the French blue books. In a letter forming part of the correspon-
 599 "It is not true that there is any disagreement between the Holy Father and Italy, although there may be with the Government of Turin." 600
 ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, he represented a district very distant from the Exhibition, a district which had contributed very largely to the coal-tax, and he was sure that the contributors would look with astonishment on the application of the fund to the wealthy portions of the Metropolis to which it was proposed to devote it. He was sure it would tend to make the Government exceedingly unpopular.
 LORD FERMOY  said, he concurred with what had been stated by the hon. Member for Finsbury. He wished to see a road carried across the Park from the Paddingtta side; but the proposal to cut Kensington Gardens in two by a sunk road was so objectionable that he should be disposed to offer it every opposition. It would be an eyesore to the gardens, and a regular trap for the children or the nursery-maids, or perhaps both, to fall into, and be driven over by the traffic. But, if the road was made out of the proceeds of the coal-tax, it should be made clear that it was open to traffic of every kind, without any exception whatever. And, if so, let them consider what an amount of it there would be, what noise, and what danger. The plan of the hon. Member for Finsbury was good, sound, and practical. He believed a permanent road could be made nearly on the line he suggested; but that could be easily proved by making it first, as a temporary and experimental road, for the present summer; and, if it answered, there would be no objection on the part of the public to widen the bridge across the Serpentine. He hoped the Government would reconsider the plan it had now proposed.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, that he considered that, in the course of the debate, hon. Members had entirely wandered from the subject. The Government had been charged with ignoring the distress which they were called upon to relieve. One part of that distress, it appeared, arose out of unfortunate bill transactions into which some of the small farmers and dealers had entered; was the Government to interfere for the protection of parties who had placed themselves in that position? The whole case as originally stated entirely fell to the ground. There was one point, however, on which he wished the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland had been more explicit. Who had raised the cry of distress? The right hon. Gentleman should have traced the evil to its real source. He said it was not the landlords or the middle classes who had raised the cry; but he should have gone a little further, and either entirely acquitted the priesthood or boldly charged them with complicity in, or with having originated this most injurious agitation. He was afraid, from what occurred in 1847, that it was the priests, and the priests alone, who were at the bottom of it. At that time, he admitted, many of the priests behaved in the most admirable manner; but in the west of Ireland, where he went with many others to relieve the distress, he had heard it stated in more than one chapel that the million of money then subscribed was only an acknowledgment of the great debt which, as Mr. O'Connell at his monster meetings always told them, England owed to the Irish people, and that the mess of pottage then offered them was intended as an acquittance. That was the way in which the priests, trained and supported by public money, at Maynooth, forgetting their duty to the Government and the people, had spoken of the great exertions which were then made to relieve the distress existing in Ireland; and the very same parties now, for their own purposes, had raised the cry of distress.
 MR. BAGWELL  said, he thought the discussion had arisen entirely from the animus of the remarks of the hon. Member for Dungarvan and the eccentric qualities of the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary. He did not see why distress in Ireland should be regarded in a different light to distress in England. There was distress in Ireland, but there was also distress in Manchester; in the one case it was a dearth of corn, in the other a dearth of cotton; but the people of Manchester did not come to that House for relief. There were the same local means of relief in Ireland as in Manchester, and he asserted that the landowners of Ireland were willing to supply the wants of the suffering population, and he was sure that it was the desire of every enlightened Irishman to work out his own deliverance. If
 578
 MR. BRADY  said, that he sincerely regretted that any feeling of animosity should exist, or any personalities should be allowed to pass between hon. Members on different sides of the House, believing as he did that both had the welfare of the country at heart. He could not, however, admit that the distress existing in
 592
 MR. BRADY  said, that while approving of the Bill generally, he objected to the clause which rendered it necessary that the corn or other commodity to be purchased in the markets of Ireland should be weighed at a public weigh-house. Such was not the state of the law of England. He considered this regulation to be highly oppressive.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, the law of England was adequate to meet such distress as prevailed in Ireland, and to prevent the sensation which that distress had occasioned. The English Poor Laws gave a species of relief which the poor were desirous to receive; but the Irish Poor Laws gave a species of relief which the poor most unwillingly claimed. Upon financial as well as moral grounds, he preferred the English to the Irish system. The workhouse system was more expensive than out-door relief. In a union in Ireland the total cost was £1,592, of which £630 was expended on the poor, and £962 was expended on the officers of the establishment. Such a disproportion would be exceptional in England and impossible in Scotland. Without opposing the Bill he felt it his duty to enter a protest against the course pursued by the Government.
 MR. MAGUIRE : No; the place I referred to is Kilmore, in the West Riding of the county Cork.
 MR. MAGUIRE  rose to call the attention of the House to the existence of serious distress in Ireland. He had been for nine years a Member of that House, and never on any occasion had he greater need of its indulgence and forbearance than he had that evening. He relied on the spirit of fair play which always animated Members of that House to secure him a patient hearing while he endeavoured to defend himself, and to show that certain statements made in Ireland, and repeated in that House on behalf of Her Majesty's Government, were not founded upon accurate information. He seemed as if he were standing there upon his trial. His veracity had been impeached, and his statements declared to be grossly exaggerated or without foundation. He stood there to prove that all he had said was true, and that what had been urged on the other side was not justified by the facts. It was humiliating and painful for any Member to stand up to expose the miseries of his country, and nothing but an imperative sense of duty would compel him to assume that attitude. He yielded to no one in respect for the private character of the present Viceroy of Ireland; but that nobleman had an unfortunate habit of taking a one-sided view of public affairs, because he had not moral courage sufficient to look upon their stern and disagreeable side. He viewed the condition of Ireland through a species of Claude Lorraine glass, which allowed him to see nothing harsh or repelling, but represented everything as grateful to his fancy as to his feelings. In the month of April, 1861, the Lord Lieutenant took
 549 550 551 "The way in which the people of Ireland have found the means to pay for the large quantities of foreign wheat and Indian corn imported since the famine has long been a mystery to us. It is now becoming evident that this has been done, in part at least, out of capital, as the last Government returns show a great reduction both in the number of cattle kept and the acreage under cultivation; for a time, the expenditure of English capital—" "For a time the expenditure of English capital in the purchase and improvement of estates prevented the drain of money being felt; but now we see its results in decreasing stock and diminished cultivation, which, if continued, must reduce a considerable portion of the country to a mere sheep-walk." "The imports of Indian corn exceed those of any past year except that of the famine in 1847. One gentleman who has recently visited all the ports in Ireland estimates the stock at over 1,000,000 qrs.; others, 900,000. The latter quantity materially exceeds the annual average consumption of the last seven years; still, for the reasons before expressed, respecting wheat we do not look forward to any material decline at present. The total imports of all kinds of corn, meal, and flour, were 1,684,633 qrs. more in 1861 than in 1860, and 4,575,377 qrs. in excess of any other previous year." "Let them now recollect the disadvantages with which they had to contend during the past year. When they met together last August all had fondly
 552 "These figures will clearly show the shortness of the crops in this locality. It may, however, be argued against you, that six months afford no test that the farmers do not hold larger stocks in their farm yards this time this year than they did at the same time last year. But the reverse is the fact, for owing to the wet harvest, and the impossibility of saving the grain crops, they were unfit to stack up, and those who might have been able to hold their grain were compelled to send it into market, else it would rot. So it may be fairly inferred that the bulk of last harvest's
 553 s s s s s s s s 554 555 Sounder's 556 "But we are vauntingly asked, in disproof of the existence of distress, Are not the workhouses half empty, and are there not plenty of bread-stuffs and provisions to be had at comparatively low prices? Those who allege this in disproof of even extreme distress, must know very little of the condition and feelings of the Irish poor. A more fallacious test of distress was never applied than the extent of workhouse relief. To my own certain knowledge, hundreds of our poor people would prefer starving. They would regard death in its most painful form, death by starvation, as a
 557 "I got the most worthy men to go to every tenant-farmer's house in my parish, and they made me a return of the quantity of food possessed by every one of them, to the truth and accuracy of which return they will make the most solemn declaration. "The population of Kilmovee Parish, county Mayo, is 6,534—of which 
 
 272 have provisions for 4 months. 
 967 have provisions for 3 months. 
 2,613 have provisions for 2 months. 
 1,554 have provisions for 1 month. 
 1,138 have no provisions. 
 6,634" en passant Sligo Champion Champion Sligo Champion 558
 MR. MAGUIRE : Very good; he was delighted to hear it. But why, on the second or third day, did not the right hon. Baronet look at the placard, and correct his first impressions? The right hon. Gentleman certainly had honoured Sligo, and Sligo ought to raise a monument—not to his memory, for he hoped he would live long in the land—but to commemorate his visit. But what had been the character of his tour, or progress through the country? The right hon. Gentleman himself described it, and lest there should be any mistake on a matter so interesting, he would quote his own words, embalmed in the pages of the  Sligo Champion "I have no doubt now, after having traversed a very extensive range of country within the last three days, about three hundred miles, on an outside ear, with my friend Sir Henry Brownrigg, who I am sure is in a condition to know much better than any man in the country, &c. &c." 559 "There are at this moment in actual distress, and in receipt of relief from our parochial committees— 
 
 In Athlone, about 250 families. 
 In Roscommon, about 200 do. 
 In Boyle, about 200 do. 
 In Sligo, about 900 do. 
 Note.—At 5 each—8,250 persons." "To the poor of our towns, and still more to the poor of our country districts, the workhouse is an object of horror and disgust—more hateful and formidable than death itself. We have given up advising them to go there; it is useless. Those who would urge them to do so they would regard as unfeeling and cruel. With the workhouse they associate sickness, death, disgrace, and the permanent disruption of family ties. To go there once is to make themselves paupers and outcasts for ever; not to go there is their only chance of preserving a home and family." 560 Munster News s s "But, if the lot of the labouring classes is at all times a hard enough one—if what may be called their normal, every-day condition is a struggle for the necessaries of life—their condition at the present time is one of unusually deep distress, such as has not fallen upon them since the famine years, and imperatively demands of those having the ability to come promptly to their relief, that God's poor may not perish in the land. From the unpropitious nature of the seasons, the potato crop is in good part utterly lost, and what little remains is greatly injured; the cereal produce, too, of the land is both short in quantity and inferior in quality—so that, owing to this combination of adverse circumstances, even now, before we have passed out of the second month of the year, the people are crying out for food, and, to add to their distress, they are suffering from want of fuel, many having nothing to burn but
 561 "The result of personal observation, and of anxious inquiry, is a firm conviction on my mind, that if this year the poor were as numerous as in '47 and '48, and if the corn-merchants were as little prepared at once to meet the pressing demands in the food market, the famine would lie as bad now as at that disastrous period. There will, however, be no famine. Death and emigration have taken away over two millions of the poor; and the supply of breadstuffs imported from other countries is general and abundant. But, there will and there must be great distress. The reasons are obvious. In the condition of tradesmen and labourers who happen to have constant, employment, there will be no change. With fair wages, and food not over-dear, they will have little to complain of. The large farmers, who had previously made some reserve, can also meet the difficulty with comparative ease. The classes on whom the pressure must bear most heavily, are the small farmers, the shopkeepers, the tradesmen and labourers, who are depending on occasional employment. These farmers, in many instances, have at the present moment neither food, nor money, nor credit. Shopkeepers of all classes, and in a special manner those in the drapery line, are doing comparatively little. And the tradespeople and labourers now idle have very little prospect of employment. Of the existing distress, the numbers in the workhouses afford no correct test. Unless for those who are thoroughly acquainted with the habits and feeling of the Irish poor, it is difficult to form an adequate idea of their unwillingness to accept Poor Law relief. The severest pangs of hunger, nay death itself, will be encountered by many of them, sooner than they would seek the chilling discomforts of workhouse accommodation." 562 The Times 563 Laughter "Those who know the aversion the labouring classes in Ireland have to entering the workhouse, will not be astonished to hear, that in order to
 564 "I have been from the commencement an anxious observer of the progress of distress, and have arrived at the conclusion, formed, I believe, by almost every one here, that there will be extremely severe suffering endured by numbers of our poor people. All the small farmers are in the most deplorable position. No crops to pay their rents, nor money enough to purchase food or fuel for their afflicted families. The enormous deficit in last year's harvest will be destructive to the mechanics and poorer tradesmen, whose existence hangs on their employment, which depends on the produce of the soil, the foundation of almost all the trade and commerce of this country. Notwithstanding the imputation of want of self-reliance, ordinarily, but as in other cases unjustly, laid to the charge of the Irish people, the poor of this country generally will not enter the workhouse while the faintest ray of hope remains to them of sustaining life outside the walls of these institutions. The famine year demonstrated this. Tens of thousands perished within the precincts of the asylums prepared for them at enormous cost, simply because nothing could induce them to seek aid within their walls. When others did at last resort to this their only chance, they were so wasted by sickness and reduced by starvation, that medicine could not restore them, nor nutriment sustain them." ad misericordiam 565
 MR. HASSARD  said, he also would express a hope that the Bill would be read a second time without further opposition.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he felt it his duty to oppose the bill. It made a vital difference between the law of England and Ireland on the subject. He regretted that; such a Bill had been brought forward, as it would be far better to give Ireland the benefit of the Local Government Act. There were some regulations so outrageous in the measure that he thought it ought not to go to a committee. By the 12th section, buyers and sellers of certain articles, such as potatoes above 14 lb., and
 602
 MR BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he thought the hon. Gentleman was showing a settled disposition to harass the hon. Member for Sheffield, who had charge of the Bill. He looked upon this Session as essentially a private Members' Session; and unless private Members were to be permitted to proceed with their little reforms, he did not see how they were to employ themselves till the 1st of June, when it was understood the Session was to be finished. There was "ample time and verge enough" for private Members if they were not interrupted, for the Government were intent on the pleasant occupation of lying on their oars. They intended to do nothing, and very wisely, for they could do nothing. He appealed, then, to the hon. Gentleman not to oppose this puny bit of reform, so that the House, when it separated, might be able to boast of having done something.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Though I cannot take the grand parochial view of this matter, still, as being one who takes what I call a Consolidated Fund view, I wish to say a few words. The hon. Baronet the Member for Westminster said, "Let's take a pull at the Consolidated Fund." Now, having a slight interest in the Consolidated Fund, and having heard the exposition of the right hon. Gentleman, I have come to a very different conclusion from that at which he has arrived. If experience is to have any weight in this debate, we probably have heard the most experienced man in this country as to the cost of this
 614
 MR. LONGFIELD  assured the House that the object of the Committee had been to obtain for the people the utmost accommodation consistent with law. The question of tolls they had regarded as one of secondary consideration. The Bill as a whole would prove beneficial, and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would proceed with it.
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, that whilst admitting the ability and honesty with which the hon. Member for Dungarvan (Mr. Maguire) had brought the subject forward, as well as the purity of the in-
 583 584 585
 MR. LOWE  said, he thought in April or May last.
 MR. LOWE  said, that as the noble Lord had not given him notice that he was about to advert to the question of pensions, he was not prepared to furnish him with those details connected with the subject which he should otherwise have been in a position to supply. The noble Lord, however, was mistaken in supposing that these pensions were invariably granted, but the time for dealing more particularly with such claims would not arrive until after the period fixed for the Revised Code to come into effect. So far, however, as he knew, there had been no refusal of a pension on that ground; indeed, he himself had entertained several claims for pensions since the beginning of the present year. In reply to the other question to which the noble Lord had called his attention, he might observe, that although no doubt book grants were very generally given at the commencement of the present educational system, yet the aid thus afforded was exceedingly small. Those grants had become burdensome and expensive, rendering necessary the employment of a large staff of clerks, and the Royal Commission had reported strongly against them, and it was the wish of the Committee of Council to put an end to them. That wish could not, however, be carried at once into effect, inasmuch as it was necessary to give a somewhat long notice to the Messrs. Longman, who were the agents employed by the Committee in carrying out the necessary arrangements. That notice had been given, and when the Minute was introduced, one of its provisions being the abolition of book grants, the Messrs. Longman, who had behaved exceedingly well in the matter, had offered very liberal
 597
 MR. HALIBURTON  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Upon what terms, if any, the Americans retain possession of a portion of the Island of St. Juan; whether there is any negotiation pending on the subject, and the nature thereof; and, whether there be any objection to produce the Papers and Correspondence referring thereto?
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he rose with much reluctance to take part in the discussion, but could not sit silent after the constant references to several localities in the county of Cork. He regretted that the right hon. Baronet should have imported into the debate topics which had no connection with the subject before them. He should not follow him into his "cabbage garden," or discuss "mannikin traitors" and "American emissaries." The question they had to consider was, whether there was distress in Ireland, and the extent of it. He did not understand how any person acquainted with that country could doubt the existence of great distress, though no one had asserted it was universal, or that there was danger of death from starvation. The Chief Secretary admitted that he had at one time apprehended severe distress, and had taken credit for active efforts to avert it; those efforts consisting in 1,600 printed circulars, some Crimean bread-carts sent into distressed districts, and a promise to send a Government steamer to the western coast of Ireland. The hon. Member for Dungarvan (Mr. Maguire) had concluded with a formal Motion for the production of Poor Law returns. He thought it might have been better to have made some substantive Motion—which might yet become necessary—such as a Select Committee to inquire into the extent of existing distress, and the best mode of relief. The only applications which had been made for any Government aid, as regarded the constitu-
 579 "I have no wish whatever to raise or renew unprofitable controversies in the House of Commons, and I consider it the fairest as well as most useful course to communicate to you personally my grounds for believing (knowing, I might say) that extreme destitution now exists in some localities in Ireland; though freely admitting there is no absolute famine, and that many districts are still exempt from any unusual distress. "The counties with which I am best acquainted are Tipperary, where I have property, and Cork, which I represent. As to those two counties (one-eighth of Ireland), I have already stated, as the result of local observation, that dairy and sheep farmers have had a good year, but that small tillage farmers had a miserable harvest; potatoes and wheat having failed, and oats being a deficient crop. Turf also could not be saved, owing to the wetness of the season. There may
 580 "Enclosed are printed appeals from relief committees established in the comparatively wealthy towns of Clonmel and Tipperary; Mallow, county of Cork, also a rich district; Kanturk and Skibbereen. Among the subscribers you will observe clergymen of both denominations, and other faith-worthy names, including, at Mallow, a distinguished gentleman closely connected with your department. "At Sligo, also, you will notice the mayor and town council, with the resident magistrate and sub-inspector of constabulary, about twenty justices of the peace, two M.P.s, and one noble proprietor (Viscount Palmerston), who contributes the liberal subscription of £20. "You will, perhaps, collect from those appeals, as well as from others which may have reached your hands, that there is some extreme destitution in various localities; but that with few exceptions (such as Bere Island), it is still chiefly confined in each instance to some populous town, into which has been concentrated the accumulated, pauperism of surrounding electoral divisions. Hence, as at Skibbereen, demands are again being made for union rating. "I beg likewise to direct your especial attention to statements made at a public meeting in Kanturk by the Very Rev. Mr. 0'Regan, P.P., a gentleman whom, from long and intimate intercourse, I know to be incapable of misrepresentation. "The Mansion House meeting, in the Irish Metropolis, with its Lord Mayor and Catholic Archbishop, confirm provincial statements. "Having taken the liberty to submit these evidences of local distress in Ireland, in a temperate and friendly form, I trust they may assist your other information to judge rightly for the good of the country." 581 "I have been incessantly engaged in efforts to relieve the frightful miseries of some of our poor people. Now that our funds are exhausted, they will, many of them being brought to death's door, go into the workhouse. Be assured there is great and deep distress at the present moment, and that the small farmers were never since the famine years, nor even then, reduced to a more pitiable extent." 582
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  was rejoiced to be able to give his full assent to the Bill. The Bill was an exact transcript of the results to which fourteen Irish gentlemen had arrived in Committee, and therefore it could not with any accuracy be called the Bill of the present or preceding Government. The principle of the Bill was that those who took the tolls should provide adequate accommodation for the public, which seemed to be just. He hoped that hon. Members would agree to the second reading without further opposition, and that a reasonable time would be given to the people of Ireland to consider its provisions before it came to be considered in Committee.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the Report of the Committee on the Post Office related to a claim that was made by certain members of the metropolitan establishment for the improvement of their position. Their claim was first of all examined by various officers of the Post Office; and, secondly, by officers of the Post Office in conjunction with some officers of the Treasury; the two Departments, as the House was aware, being very intimately associated together, and the Treasury, in fact, being strictly responsible for all the proceedings of the Post Office. There was some difference of opinion prevailing among those officers, and under those circumstances it became the duty of the Government themselves to assume the responsibility; and after communications had passed between his noble Friend the Postmaster-General and the Treasury, certain arrangements were made which were now in force. With respect to that variety of view which prevailed amongst persons of intelligence and ability in Departments on the details of some practical questions, it was impossible that gentlemen of intelligence should not occasionally vary in the advice that they conscientiously tendered; but these were questions which he thought, in the first instance, were for the consideration of the Government, and they were for the consideration of Parliament, if Parliament should think fit to impugn the conduct of the Government. But, undoubtedly, these were not Papers of a nature which, in his judgment, it would be convenient or agreeable to precedent to lay before Parliament. Having taken a certain course, the Government intended to abide by that course, and it was not a matter on which they intended to submit Papers to Parliament.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would take that oppor-
 548
 MR. ALDERMAN COPELAND  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If it is the intention of the Government to appoint a Select Committee to inquire into the state of the Ecclesiastical Commission and the management of the Estates now vested in the Commission?
 MR. HUME  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Homo Department, Whether he has it in contemplation to introduce a Bill this Session to amend the Law regulating the traffic of Cabs and Public Carriages through the Streets of the Metropolis; and, if so, when it may be expected to be laid upon the table of the House?
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, he could corroborate what had been stated in regard to the reluctance of even the most destitute persons in Ireland to enter the poor-houses. It had been asked why the same complaints did not arise in England, which was equally subject to the vicissitudes of trade and bad harvests, as in Ireland. The reason was that in England distress was relieved without compelling the destitute poor in every case to go into the workhouses. One great difference existed between the circumstances of Ireland in 1846–7 and at present. Then there was no food. Now there was no scarcity of food, and every labourer who could find employment would be able to maintain himself and his family. He hoped the worst of the distress was nearly over. After the middle of March there would be no want of employment; indeed, it was a general complaint that there were in general not sufficient labourers to be found for the work to be done. He could not agree with the hon. Member for Cork as to the expediency of giving relief in the shape of advances for public works; the experience of 1846 and 1847 was against the proposal, and he hoped the Government, warned by the results of the past, would not again fall into a similar error.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, he also should support the Bill. At the same time he believed that the Irish Poor Law system was not adequate to the wants of the country.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he wished to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, When the Report of the Committee on the Post Office will be laid upon the table?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that he had no intention of proposing any alteration in
 547
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that when last Session the hon. Gentleman had brought under the notice of the House a certain branch of expenditure with reference to the Ecclesiastical Commission, In said he (Sir George Grey) thought the subject might be fit for the inquiry of a Committee. The hon. Member for Pooh (Mr. H. Seymour) had given notice of his intention to move for a Committee on the general question, and if the House should agree to that Motion, this subject would come within the scope of the inquiry of that Committee.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied, that he had not received any plan or proposition of the kind referred to from the Metropolitan Road Commissioners. In 1859 a Commission, presided over by Lord Eversley, had reported as to the best means of relieving the burden inflicted by the metropolitan toll gates, and in February, 1860, his right hon. Friend, the present Secretary for "War, who then presided at the Home Department, addressed a letter to the Commissioners with reference to that Report, to which an answer was given, but it could hardly be said to contain any plan or proposition for the removal of the toll bars, and since that time nothing had taken place.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he thought if the plan had reference to the Exhibition alone, it was clear the Government had no right to touch the fund—namely, the Coal Tax—appropriated so recently as last Session to another purpose. If, on the contrary, it was a permanent metropolitan improvement, then it entirely rested with the Metropolitan Board. He conceived that the duty of the right hon. Gentleman, as representing the Crown, was only to take care, in making over the land for a public highway, that the arrangements would be carried out as they would be by any other landlord. The whole difficulty might be met if his right hon. Friend would bring in a Bill making over a certain portion of the Crown property for a high road. Then
 612
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : Is it? Well, the hon. Gentleman read a letter from Mr. Fisher. Now a Gentleman (Mr. D'Arcy) writing to a colonel in the array, gives to the statement made by the hon. Gentleman this triumphant refutation. He says—
 "The fact is, an alarm has been raised by the priests to frighten the people and call in the aid of the Government, and thus local efforts have been checked." "Because, although it is true that there has been pressure, and the price of fuel was raised—and I admit that several Roman Catholic priests were indignant at this—yet there has been no pressure with respect to food, and we have got a special coal fund. I have closely watched the state of the people, and I do not think I ever saw so large a market as we had last Saturday." "I have taken some pains to ascertain how things stand in my part of the world, and, as far as I can ascertain the real state of the case, it seems that there will be a sufficient supply of food." 573 574 "I am happy to say that there is no distress in this county, except in a few of the poorer districts. Fuel is bad, but, fortunately, the winter is mild; food is abundant, and not above the usual price, but there is a want of good fuel." "Unfortunate as had been the result of the late harvest, the amount of destitution in this county at least is not beyond the compass of local resources to relieve." "Provisions of every kind are considerably cheaper than they were at the corresponding period of 1846, and there is ample employment for able-bodied men," 575 576
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he could assure the House that he did not feel in the least harassed by what had taken place. The Government would be glad to receive any suggestions for the amendment of the Bill. With regard to the objection of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Warwickshire, if any better system could be devised he should be happy to adopt it.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  intimated his intention to persevere with the Bill, notwithstanding the almost solitary opposition of the hon. Member for Wexford. He thought
 604
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : Sir, the hon. Member has entered into a wide field of discussion, and has brought under the notice of the House a question which in years gone by was found well worthy to occupy the time and attention of Parliament, when it could be shown that there was no reason to apprehend that the statements adduced were tinged by exaggeration or prejudiced by faction. I believe the House of Commons would be just as ready now to listen to any statement calling for the sympathy, the advice, or the assistance of; Parliament. But before hon. Gentlemen pass an opinion on the observations of the hon. Member respectfully ask a few moments indulgence that I may have an opportunity of replying to them. I do not complain of the course taken by the hon. Gentleman; three times within a fortnight he has brought this subject under the notice of Parliament; but although I have abundant business of the department to transact at this moment, I shall always be ready to listen to him or any other hon. Gentleman who may bring forward in this House subjects bearing on the condition of the people, and especially of the poorer classes in Ireland. But it must have struck you, Sir, as well as many other hon. Gentlemen, that this lament, this cry of alarm, does not come—as it did in 1846, 1847, and 1848—from the landed proprietors in Ireland; it does not come from the tenant farmers; it does not come from the Parliamentary representatives of popular constituencies, or from the people themselves; it does not come, in fact, from those who have an opportunity of knowing what the real state and condition of Ireland is; but it is confined simply and solely to a very few persons in Ireland, of whom the hon. Member for Dungarvan is the representative in this House, whose opportunities of observation and whose knowledge of Ireland—I say it with complete Parliamentary respect—is, as every hon. Gentleman knows, of the most limited and subordinate character. In discussing the subject the hon. Gentleman, I am sorry to say, has gone into that most distasteful arena—personal attack. He has alluded to some things in connection with my visit to the West. He is quite at liberty to criticise that journey; but, at all events, it was undertaken with the best motives. As to my conduct at Londonderry, where I received the freedom of the city, as my father had done before me, I sec nothing
 567 568 569 d d s d s d 570 s s d d "I am the Chairman of the Board of Guardians of Castletown, Berehaven, a district considered to be one of the poorest in Ireland. When I, therefore, bear testimony to the general prosperity of my district, I think that the state of it may be taken as a fair criterion of the west of Ireland. … The present 'distress agitation 'is easily traceable… The landlords in this part of the country have shown great leniency to their tenants in the matter of rent, and have done their duty liberally in cases of real distress; and I think I express the opinion of most Irish landlords when I say that I should indignantly
 571 "Manch House, Enis Kean, County of Cork, Jan.10, 1862. "Sir,—It becomes my duty to enclose a memorial to his Excellency the Lord Lieutenant, unanimously adopted at a presentment session for the barony of the western division of East Carbery on the 6th inst. by the justices and cess- payers, to request a loan from the Government for the West Cork Railway. I have great pleasure to be able to state to you, for the information of his Excellency, that the labouring classes in this barony are fully employed at good wages, and that the famine cry lately attempted to be got up has proved a complete failure. The number in our workhouse is very few, "I have the honour to be, Sir, "DANIEL CONNER, J.P., Chairman of the magistrates and associated cesspayers for the Eastern Division of East Carbery Sessions. "To General Sir Thomas Larcom." "I was greatly surprised at the account given by him (the Rev. Mr. Conway) of the state of affairs in this neighbourhood (he writes from Headford, Nov. 27 (1861), of which I, for one, was completely ignorant, and I am glad to say, on reference to the books of the relieving officer, it appears that from the 1st of September to the 26th of November there have been but eight applications made to him for relief in his entire district, which embraces nine electoral divisions, an extent far beyond that of which Mr. Conway speaks, only three of which were from Headford property, and these applications were less by three than those made by the relieving officers during the corresponding period of I860." 572
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : I was in Sligo three days.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, it was impossible the work, as the right hon. Gentleman had described it, could be executed between that time and the opening of the Exhibition. There were not between that day and the 1st of May more than forty clear working days. He pledged his practical experience that the thing was perfectly impossible. It would require about ten days to pass the Bill, and by the time all the arrangements for commencing the work were made nearly three weeks would be lost. There would not be more than twenty-five working days left. The result would be an inextricable confusion instead of a benefit. He suggested that the better plan would be to make a short junction road from the Victoria- gate, in the Bayswater-road, above the Powder Magazine, to the top of the bridge over the Serpentine, and then use part of Rotten Row as far as Queen's Gate, close to the Exhibition. The loss of that portion of Rotten Row might be compensated by letting its frequenters go down by the Serpentine, and pass under the bridge. The total expense of the small junction road from the Powder Magazine to the Serpentine Bridge would be some £200 or £300; and everything might be done in time. He assured the right hon. Gentleman that the plan he had described was a perfect impossibility. To make the sunk road would require the removal of many thousand cubic yards of earth. Then, there were the bridges to construct, one of them the whole width of Rotten Row. Judging by the rate of progress of the Government works in the Italian garden, the plan was more
 611
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he desired to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether there was any early prospect of the improvement of Leicester-square. Leicester-square was certainly not a fashionable quarter, but he had felt considerable shame, as an inhabitant of this City, at the state in which the square at present stood. It was worse than that of any place in any other city in the world that he knew of. The past history of the square had been a very mysterious matter. Since the statue, once erected as a memorial of one of our monarchs, had disappeared, and the large building at present standing had been erected, heaps of ashes, mixed with rags and shavings, and other decayed matters had been allowed to accumulate there. Foreigners were likely
 601
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that it was quite true that in almost every part of Italy there had been a strong manifestation of an earnest desire that Rome should be the central capital of the Italian Kingdom, and that the temporal power of the Pope should cease. He believed that feeling had been nowhere more strongly felt or more decidedly expressed than in the city of Rome itself. Her Majesty's Government, however, had taken no part in regard to those opinions, and no instructions had been given to Sir James Hudson to make any remonstrance on the subject to the Government of Turin; nor, as far as he was aware, had Sir James Hudson taken any step on his own authority. There was, therefore, no truth in the report, if such a report was current, that Sir James Hudson had, in concert with the Austrian and Prussian Ambassadors, addressed a remonstrance to Baron Ricasoli against the expression of national feeling in favour of Italian unity.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : There are two things which almost everybody admits—the one is, that access to the Exhibition should be provided by the 1st of May; and the other, that a permanent communication is required between the town on the north and on the south side of Hyde Park. My right hon. Friend has asked leave to bring in a Bill to accom-
 613
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, the occupation of the Island of St. Juan rests upon an arrangement made in 1859 between General Scott, who was sent for the purpose to Vancouver's Island, and Governor Douglas, who was at that time Governor of that island. The conditions of that arrangement were, that without prejudice to the claim of either party to the whole of the island, there should provisionally be a joint occupation, the occupying force on each side not to consist of a greater number than 100 men, either soldiers or marines, to be stationed in separate parts of the island, so as not to come into contact; each party to exercise control over the subjects of its own government, and to repel any attacks from Indians. From that time negotiations have been carried on between the "British Government and that of the United States with a view to the final settlement of the disputed question relative to the channel between Vancouver's Island and the main land, a dispute which, of course, involves the question of the Island of St. Juan. That negotiation had progressed to a certain extent when the civil war broke out, but in consequence of that war it has been suspended. That being the case, I do not think it would be useful, or conducive to the public interest, to enter into a detailed statement of the negotiation up to the point at which it was suspended, and, of course, I could not lay any Papers connected with that subject on the table of the House.
 MR. LYGON  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, When the Return relating to Ecclesiastical Manors, ordered by this House 15th June 1860 and 25th June 1861, will be laid upon the table?
 THE O'DONOGHUE :—Sir, I hope it is unnecessary for me to say that I should regret deeply to do anything to violate the privileges of this House. And I may say for myself that I would have been the last person in this House to say or do anything which might wound the susceptibilities of any hon. Member. I hope, however, that the House will accord to me for one moment the consideration which they invariably extend to any one who has a personal explanation to make. Having received this afternoon an intimation from the noble Lord at the head of the Government that he would feel it his duty this evening to make a statement with reference to me, I felt it my duty to attend in my place; and as I took it for granted that what the noble Lord had to say would refer to what passed on Friday night, I made a copy of the words used by the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary to the Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland, and which I considered personally offensive to myself. In rising to offer a very few words of explanation, I am sure I do not erroneously estimate the character of this House when I expect from it all the more consideration from the fact that the right hon. Baronet did all in his power to excite a prejudice against me. Perhaps the House will permit me to read the words which I considered offensive. Alluding to the alleged prosperity of Ireland, the right hon. Baronet said:—
 "Of the justice of that opinion no more remarkable proof can be adduced than that which took place the other day, when there was danger of rupture with America, and Ireland was filled with American emissaries, who tried to raise there a spirit of disloyalty. A meeting was then held in the Rotunda, at which a few manikin traitors sought to imitate the cabbage-garden heroes of 1818; but I am glad to say they met with no response. There was no one to follow. There was not a single man of respectability who answered the appeal." 624 625 Loud cries
 THE O'DONOGHTUE : I bow to your decision, Sir. But before I sit down I wish to say that I begin to be afraid that the mind of the right hon. Gentleman is not quite so hollow, and that there is much more of craftiness and cunning in his disposition than—[ Loud cries Cries of Oh
 THE O'DONOGHTUE : I thought that I had already apologized to the House for committing a breach of their privileges. I think I may add—although after what has passed it is almost unnecessary to say so—but if it be necessary, I am ready to state the matter shall go no further. 626 Votes and Proceedings of the House of Commons, Lunæ, 24 o
 ADMIRAL, WALCOTT : Sir, I am induced to ask the question I have placed upon the paper from a personal experience which I have had of the great unhealthiness of the climate of Vera Cruz and the Fortress of San Juan d'Ulloa in, with slight exceptions, all seasons of the year. I make, Sir, no exception to the policy which directed the expedition to Mexico; but I shall lament beyond expression, if the fact be so, that, on the occasion of the French and Spanish troops marching into the interior, the English contingent be placed, not only in such a fatal, but in such an inglorious position as to remain in garrison of the places I have named, which will deny to that eminently distinguished corps the Royal Marines the opportunity of adding fresh laurels to those already gathered by long service. In a joint expedition all should share equality of fortune. I therefore ask the Secretary to the Navy, Whether the Royal Marines sent to act in conjunction with the troops of France and Spain upon service in Mexico were supplied with tents and field artillery; or whether their duties would be restricted to garrisoning Vera Cruz and the Fortress of San Juan d'Ulloa; and, in the latter event, whether due caution had been impressed upon the commanding officer to select a position where their health and sanitary arrangements could be best secured previous to their landing—Vera Cruz being surrounded with sandhills and pools of stagnant water?
 ADMIRAL DUNCOMBE  asked the Secretary to the Admiralty, In what manner the surplus from the last year's Estimates had been disposed of; and to what extent, if at all, it had been applied to the increase of the fleet consequent upon the late differences with America?
 MR. HENLEY , in reply to the question of the gallant officer the hon. Member for Portsmouth (Sir James Elphinstone), stated that he was not one of the parties who originally moved for the appointment of the Committee referred to, and it certainly was not his intention to take any part in moving for its re-appointment.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he had carefully examined the Estimates, and it was a satisfaction to him to be able to state that he could conscientiously support every item. He regretted, however, that, owing to the manner in which the Estimates had been prepared, it was impossible to ascertain the cost of any one ship in the navy. At present they had not the means of knowing how much had been expended on any particular ship—for instance, the  Warrior Black Prince Warrior Black Prince 634 Albion Wellington Frederick William Royal Sovereign Orlando Galatea Warrior Black Prince Achilles 635 Britannia Warrior
 MR. LINDSAY  wished to make a few remarks upon certain new Votes in these Estimates which were likely to become permanent. There was an item of £150 for a librarian. He did not object to there being a library for the navy, but he hoped it would contain some volumes teaching the art of book-keeping upon a more intelligible principle than was now followed in that department. The hon. Member was proceeding to comment upon the item for salaries of naval instructors, when—
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he would confine himself to the general question. Our naval expenditure had enormously increased of late years. When the present Government acceded to office, they asked for upwards of £12,000,000 for the navy;
 640 Warrior 641 Gloire Invincible Normandie Couronne Magenta Solferino 642 Black Prince Warrior Defence Resistance Warrior Defence Achilles Warrior
 MR. MASSKY  in the Chair.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he had always advocated the efficient maintenance of the navy as our right arm, and that it ought to be so maintained at all hazards. He had always said that our ships ought not only to be equal to those of France, but equal to France and any other nation. But we had now ships more than equal to all the navies of Europe. What more was required? There were ships enough to meet the world in arms. He could understand our being at war with two or even three European powers at the same time; but he could not conceive England being at war with all the world. No doubt the first duty of that House was to look to the safety of the people, but the second duty was to see that the public money was not unnecessarily spent; and he was sorry to see that those who spoke so much out of doors on the subject of economy were not in their places when the money was actually voted. There were a great many points in which he agreed with the noble Lord. On these he would not touch; he would restrict himself to those on which he differed from his noble Friend. The right hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich (Sir John Pakington) agreed with his noble Friend in almost all he said; especially he agreed with him in spending a great amount of money. He even went further, for the right hon. Gentleman appeared to think that the Channel Fleet was not large enough. It had been the policy in that House to measure our armaments by what was supposed to be possessed by other countries. But these comparisons had often been fallacious. Last year the noble Lord had spoken of six iron-cased ships which the French had launched, and had obtained a large Vote in consequence. Why two of those ships—the  Magenta Solferino 680 War- 681 rior Warrior
 MR. CORRY  said, the able statement which his noble Friend (Lord Clarence Paget) had made was most satisfactory. There was one point to which he wished to direct the especial attention of the Committee, and that was the question of reducing the armaments of the ships. If that question had been referred to a Committee of gunnery officers, and they had come to the conclusion that such a reduction would be judicious, he (Mr. Corry) would not have said a single word against such a decision. No such inquiry had been entered into, and the solo reason alleged for the reduction in the existing armaments was that the ships strained very much in bad weather. He must say that during the whole time he (Mr Corry) was at the Admiralty there was no general complaint that our ships were overweighted, although there had been a report that particular vessels laboured in very bad weather. Moreover, the introduction of the Armstrong gun had tended to reduce the weight of the armament. Under the old system of armament the 68-pounder weighed 95 cwt., the 8-inch gun 65 cwt., and the 32-pounder 58 cwt. The corresponding Armstrong guns were the 100-pounder, which weighed 81 cwt., the 70-pounder of 60 cwt., and the 40-pounder of 31 cwt., so that a reduction in the weight of the armaments might have been effected without the removal of a single gun. He admitted, however, that it would be inexpedient to substitute to too great an extent rifled guns for the old smooth bore guns, as while the former were more
 682 Shannon Shannon Royal Oak
 Mr. CORRY : That included the weight of shot and shell, and other gunnery stores, but the weight of the guns was 230 tons. He was aware that the  Royal Oak
 MR. LINDSAY  said, in explanation, that the main reason of his dissent from the Report of the Commission on the manning of the navy was, that he wished to see better measures provided for inducing the men in the merchant service to join the Naval Reserve; and he thought that as such measures had now been adopted he was entitled to some little portion of the credit due to the improvement.
 ADMIRAL DUNCOMBE  thought some reduction in the weight carried by some of the iron ships would be very advantageous. They would be less affected by the strain when being forced through the water at high rates of speed. The experiment might, perhaps, be carried further, by the reduction of some of the weight in the masts and rigging.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT : I must reiterate my objection to the proposed reduction of men in the several ships, but I am sensible it will be useless to press it further. Now, the hon. Member for Sunderland has asked why we should have a navy beyond the navies of all other nations. I make this brief reply—because we have a more extensive commerce than all other nations combined, and because England, the first maritime nation in the world, should maintain a navy proportionate to her extensive commerce and her wide-spread Colonies and Dependencies. I give my unqualified support to the training ships for boys, and the introduction of the greater number proposed, a measure I have not ceased to advocate for many years past. I concur with the hon. Member for Sunderland in all he has said as to the value formerly acquired from our collier crews as seamen into the royal service. They were acquainted with the coasts of Ireland, and were formerly invaluable as pilots, and many of a superior class had been brought into the navy as masters. I am glad to hear a Committee is at this time sitting to inquire into the position of masters, for they are a most valuable class of officers hitherto sadly overlooked. I gave my voice in favour of building two additional troopships in the last Session of Parliament—valuable as I consider these ships are in instruction afforded to our officers and men in embarking and disembarking troops under all circumstances of weather and danger, berthing them when on board, and in many other particulars of no small importance looking to their comfort and health. Above all, paramount in importance to the material efficiency of our navy, it is an indispensible necessity to have practical officers and practised crews. To secure this end we must assure the officers be-
 685
 SIR CHARLES DOUGLAS  said, that in the absence of the hon. Member for Tavistock who was detained at home by indisposition, he begged to inform the right hon. Gentleman that there was no intention to bring on the second reading of the Church Rates Bill on Ash Wednesday, when it could not be fully discussed. It had remained on the orders where it was
 617
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : I am very much indebted to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Droitwich for alluding to the difficulties I am placed in by having to answer a variety of questions concerning the navy before I have the honour of making my statement on introducing the Estimates. I trust hon. Gentlemen will not think it disrespectful to them if I request them to allow me to make my statement in the first instance, as I believe they will then be put in possession of much of the information they desire to obtain. Before proceeding to answer the Questions on the paper, I should like to congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Portsmouth (Sir James Elphinstone) on the fact, that the reports he has heard of the bad health of the cadets on board the  Britannia 638
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Will the House permit me shortly to describe what has taken place in this matter on the authority of the Accountant General of the
 639 Achilles
 LOUD CLARENCE PAGET  wished to correct an impression which he thought he had conveyed to the right hon. Gentleman (Sir John Pakington), that during the coming year there would be in the Channel only two line-of-battle ships and two iron-cased frigates. What he had stated was the force they now had; but he gave the force of men they proposed for next year, and this would suffice to maintain three line-of-battle ships, three iron-cased frigates, two wooden frigates, and four corvettes, making a total of twelve instead of ten. The hon. Member for Norfolk (Mr. Bentinck) had stated correctly that our ships had very fine ends, and the guns could not well be put there. It was certain that these ships would not bear any great weight of guns in their extremities. The new plan was of a tentative nature only. He had attempted to show that the introduction of a certain number of Armstrong guns would makeup the weight of broadsides caused by the reduction of guns. Thus the loss of weight upon the broadside of the  Shannon Trafalgar
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : It was 540 tons.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : In some cases.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Sir, previous to bringing these Estimates before the Committee, I must briefly notice the
 646 Magenta Solferino 647 648 649 650 651 652
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Yes, certainly, they are line-of-battle ships; the  Caledonia 653 654 655 656 657 658 Chi va piano va sano 659 660 Revenge Ariadne Shannon Ariadne 661 Ariadne Warrior? Warrior Agincourt Minotaur Northumberland Warrior  Warrior Black Prince Achilles Hector Valiant Resistance Defence Prince Consort Ocean Caledonia Royal Alfred Royal Oak Prince Consort Caledonia 662 Royal Alfred Royal Oak Warrior 663 Warrior Warrior 664 665 666 667 668 Hector Valiant Minotaur Warrior 669 670 "That 76,000 Men and Boys be employed for the Sea and Coast Guard Services, including 18,000 Royal Marines."
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Two frigates and corvettes.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Ten sail.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  had only said that that was one reason; but he by no means meant to convey to the House that it was the principal—which was because the ship strained very much, and they were obliged to lessen the weight.
 MAJOR GAVIN : I beg, as the Friend of The O'Donoghue, that the House will allow me to say a few words in explanation; and I think when hon. Gentlemen have heard the statement, they will agree with me that I have nothing to regret in respect of the course I have taken in this matter. I believe that every one in this House read, if they did not hear, the debate on Friday night. They will recollect that in that debate very strong language was made use of by the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland in reference to my Friend the hon. Member for Tipperary. My hon. Friend, on hearing that language, did not avail himself of the rule which enabled him to call the attention of the Speaker to that language as a question of Order, but left the House very indignant and highly irritated. He called on me at the club on Saturday morning, and stated that he felt himself grossly offended at the right hon. Baronet's observations the previous evening. I begged him to put in writing the words which he felt hurt at, and he did so. I am bound to say that, having consulted with him, and having fully considered those words, I quite agreed with him in opinion; and for any act which may have been done I, and I alone, am responsible. The House heard the language used by the right hon. Baronet. As well as I can recollect, the language which was employed—refering to a meeting held at Dublin, and presided over by the hon. Member for Tipperary—the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary said that it consisted of "manikin traitors," who sought to imitate the "cabbage garden" proceedings of 1848, but that he was happy to say the call was not answered by a single respectable person. I think those were the words; if I am in error, let me be corrected. I thought over those expressions, and I arrived at the conclusion that they were words that no gentleman should rest under. I had the honour of being in the army for twenty-four years, and I am quite certain that no such language would be tolerated in that honourable profession. Entertaining that view, and having a very high opinion of the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary for Ireland, I was convinced that it would be only necessary for me to place before him the very injurious nature of the expressions made use of, and that he would give such explanations as
 621 "15, Charles Street, St. James's, Saturday. "My dear Sir Robert,—As the explanation given by you to me regarding the words you made use of towards The O'Donoghue last night in the House is not satisfactory, and as the matter cannot possibly remain in its present position, I must request you at once to refer me to a friend. "Faithfully yours, G. GAVIN. "To the Right Hon. Sir Robert Peel, &c." "Irish Office, Great Queen Street, White-hall, Feb. 23, 1862. "Dear Major Gavin,—In consequence of a communication I received from Lord Palmerston very early on Saturday morning, I referred to him the letter you addressed to me yesterday after-
 622 I am yours very truly, "ROBERT PEEL." Major G. Gavin, MP."
 MR. CARDWELL  on behalf of his colleagues in the Navy Manning Commission, wished to correct a mistake made by the hon. Member for Sunderland (Mr. Lindsay), who seemed to suppose that there existed an objection to the plan of the Secretary to the Admiralty for enabling the Officers of the merchant navy as well as the men to join the Reserve. The hon. Member had stated that he was alone in advocating this proposal; but, on his own part, as well as on the part of his hon. Friend the Member for Portsmouth, he (Mr. Cardwell) could say that they were ardent supporters of it, and were most anxious to carry it into effect, though it was omitted from the Report because the subject was not within the order of reference. At that time there seemed to be an alienation between the Queen's and the merchant services, and it was thought hopeless to expect a Reserve furnished by volunteers. It was gratifying, therefore, last autumn, when an emergency did arise, to see that so noble a spirit was manifested in the merchant service. This association of the
 684
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he had no wish to deprive the hon. Gentleman of any credit to which he was entitled. Neither himself nor his colleagues were ever indifferent as to the subject; but, as it was not in the order of reference, it could not be mentioned in the Report.
 MR. BENTINCK  was inclined to believe, that the true reason for the straining was to be found in the disproportionate length of the vessels to their breadth of beam, and the fact of their being over-weighted by the guns placed in the bow and the stern. We had long departed from what was formerly considered the proportionate length for a good sea-going ship of war, and if we built long vessels with fine ends, we must sacrifice something to speed, and relieve them of the weights which they now carried. The noble Lord said that it was the Admiralty who had to determine the question of manning the navy; but he wished to know whether it was the First Lord or the Naval Lords who were the paramount authorities on that point? There was one item referred to by his noble Friend which he had heard with very great pleasure; that was with regard to experiments. He thought it important that there should be placed at the disposal of the Admiralty a sum of money annually to enable them to make experiments which they might think it desirable to make. Many valuable improvements were lost, owing to the Admiralty not having the means of testing them. He was very glad, therefore, that his noble Friend contemplated the introduction of this Vote. His noble Friend said he was making his proposals in what he called a quiet time. He (Mr. Bentinck) was not prepared to say that they were not quiet; but how long would they continue so? He was glad, therefore, that there was no material reduction in the efficiency of the navy, as he believed that nothing would be
 679
 MR. BENTINCK  explained, that he had not attributed the straining of vessels solely to their great length, but in part to the misplacement of weight; nor had he, in referring to the subject of troop-ships, intended to imply that the mercantile marine was not equal to the performance of any service which might be required of it.
 MR. BENTINCK : My noble Friend also stated that he believed the ships were overmasted.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he had heard
 677 678
 MR. BENTINCK  believed, that the appointment of the Committee referred to was brought about by a general feeling that there was something objectionable in the constitution of the Board of Admiralty, rendering the efficient performance of its duties impracticable. When the Committee was moved for, the noble Lord observed that the Admiralty was about to be put on its trial; but how, he would ask, was it sought to carry out that view? By placing on the Committee so large a number of Members who either were or had been officials as to constitute it a tribunal which was both judge and jury in its own case. He (Mr. Bentinck) had opposed the composition of the Committee, but the House overruled his Motion on the subject. He had always been of opinion that this was a question rather for the House to deal with than a Committee. A Committee took evidence and made a Report, which was laid on the table and there remained. No result followed. The appointment of a Committee, therefore, was entirely useless. He was himself a Member of the Committee last year for several months, but he became so convinced of the utter inutility of sitting on it that he respectfully asked leave to retire, convinced that the inquiry was an utter waste of time, and that no practical result would follow. He trusted, therefore, that it was not the intention of Her Majesty's Government to reappoint the Committee this year. With regard to the question of the hon. and gallant Member for Portsmouth (Sir James Elphinstone), considering the enormous amount it would require to place Portsmouth in an adequate state of defence, he would suggest that it would be better to select some other locality for the principal dockyard of the country.
 MR. SPEAKER : I trust the hon. Gentleman is aware that the matter in question lies not between himself and the right hon. Baronet, but between himself and the House; and I hope he will not conclude his speech without some reference to the I position in which he has placed himself, with regard to the House.
 MR. SPEAKER : This is not an occasion on which it is competent for the hon. Gentleman to enter upon a general discussion of this nature. The matter is confined within much narrower limits.
 MR. SPEAKER:  The hon. and gallant Centleman the Member for Limerick, speaking on behalf of the hon. Member for Tipperary, has been permitted full latitude; but I must point out to the House that it would not be proper in the House to follow him to the extent he has gone, because one of the rules of the House is that any exception taken to words spoken in debate must be taken on the spot and at once; and no words spoken can be taken notice of afterwards in the House, if such exception has not been taken to them, and if the words themselves have not been taken down by the Clerk at the table. The value of that rule must be felt on the present occasion, because the hon. and gallant Gentleman has not professed to report to the House the exact words which have been complained of by the hon. Member for Tipperary. It is now my duty to inform the House that no discussion can take place on the words which were used on Friday evening. The time for discussing them has passed. A breach of privilege has now been brought under the notice of the House; and it is my duty to call on the hon. Member, who was
 623
 MR. SPEAKER :—It having been brought under the notice of the House that a distinct breach of its privileges has been committed by the hon. Member for Tipperary, it becomes my duty to call on that hon. Member to express his regret for the breach of privilege he has committed,
 620
 MR. SPEAKER  said, it was irregular to refer in detail to the separate Votes, on the Question that the House do go into Committee.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he wished to ask the hon. Member for Banbury (Sir Charles Douglas), in the absence of the hon. Member for Tavistock (Sir John Trelawny), Whether it is his intention to bring on the Second Reading of the Church Rates Abolition Bill on the day for which it now stands fixed, which is Ash Wednesday? On that day the House did not meet till two o'clock.
 MR. BAXTER  said, that he entirely I concurred with his hon. Friend the Member for Sunderland (Mr. Lindsay) that at a time like the present, when they were at peace with all the world, it became the duty of hon. Members, in justice to their constituents, to ask the Government to give them very cogent reasons for demanding such an expenditure as
 643 644 La Gloire 645 La Gloire Magenta Solferino La Gloire
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he would admit that nothing could be more clear and able than the statement of the noble Lord; but he was astounded at the vast increase of the expenditure of the naval department within the last few years. He should like to know the ultimate object of these vast increases in our naval armament. Our navy was already double that of France, and exceeded that of all the rest of the world put together. In 1852, the number of men voted for the navy was 39,000, and in the hottest year of the Russian war, the number was 76,000, including 10,000 boys. The Government wanted 74,850 for the present year, and that number was exclusive of 10,000 for the Reserve. He was anxious to maintain the efficiency of the navy, but he objected to uncalled-for extravagance, and thought the time had arrived when Parliament ought to interfere. The saving of £481,000 on the expenditure of last year was wholly accounted for by the smaller quantity of timber and machinery required for the present year, and in the majority of Votes there was a decided increase of expenditure. He asked the Secretary to the Admiralty to explain under what authority the Government employed about 1,880 men more than were voted last Session?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the Returns relating to Ecclesiastical Manors had been kept back in consequence of one part not being completed. They would be laid on the table of the House immediately.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  hoped, the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty would state if it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to move for the re-appointment of the Committee. One thing was quite clear, and that was, that the Committee last year was most unfairly treated in the work it had thrown upon it. He hoped the noble Lord would explain the position of the finance of the Navy. The noble Lord two or three years ago startled the House by the statement that £5,000,000 had not been accounted for in regard to the Navy. That statement created a considerable sensation. The noble Lord, however, was partially right and partially wrong, as the half of the amount was found in a lumped sum among certain other figures in the Navy papers. Now he (Sir H. Willoughby) had no doubt in his own mind that the finance of the Navy was still in a most unsatisfactory position, and what he wanted to know was, why the noble Lord did not improve that system? A most distinguished Accountant General, Sir Richard Bromley, who had many years held that office, had distinctly stated in his evidence that which was perfectly true, that there was no definite responsibility whatever that could be brought home to any manager in the Admiralty in respect of these matters and he illustrated that by his own position, for in a certain number of years he had had ninety-seven masters. Now, if by the reappointment of the Committee they could find out what the constitution of the Board of Admiralty was, and bring to bear on the First Lord and other officials a defined responsibility, so that they might really know what "My Lords"—for that was the expression—which now meant nothing, ought to mean, something would be ac-
 632
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY : I merely asked what steps had been taken.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  asked the
 627 628 Britannia 629 630 Trent 631
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, that by the application of steam power you might dredge any quantity of soil you pleased from the bottom of Portsmouth Harbour, and it would not silt up again. The labouring of ships of war might be diminished by a better arrangement of the weight of machinery and coals which they carried, by diminishing the height of their masts, and by sailing ships of equal capacity together, so as to avoid the necessity for one vessel shortening sail in order that others might overtake it. He fully agreed with what his right hon. Friend had said as to the Manning Commission. The Members of that Commis-
 688
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I am glad to hear the correction, for I did not understand from the noble Lord that the Channel Fleet was to consist of so many as ten
 671 672 673 Warrior 674 675 Warrior Warrior 676
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : That would amount to some six or seven sail.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I think the noble Lord who has just sat down has shown himself fully entitled to the attention which he acknowledges to have received from the Committee. The noble Lord has made a statement—which, indeed, occupied a considerable time; but it is full of interest, and he has made it with that degree of clearness and frankness which has characterized his statements on previous similar occasions. I agree so very much in what has fallen from the noble Lord that I am happy to say it will not be necessary for me, in following him, to trouble the Committee at any very great length. There are, however, one or two points in the statement which, I confess, I am unable to regard with feelings of entire concurrence, and with regard to which I shall be glad to elicit some further information. The noble Lord explained what was the amount of force kept in commission; he also explained the manner of its intended distribution; but the noble Lord appeared to reduce the Channel Fleet within limits which are hardly consistent with what of late years has been acknowledged to be fairly required by the interests of the nation. I understood the noble Lord to say that the Channel Fleet was to be reduced to two line-of-battle ships—two of the iron-plated ships—I suppose the noble Lord means the  Warrior Black Prince
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Are the five training ships of the class recommended by the Commission?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I do not intend to enter into any of the subjects which have been adverted to by hon. Members on either side of the House with reference to the statement we are about to hear from the noble Lord the Secretary of the Admiralty. I think it not only fair, but usual, to await the statement of the noble Lord, and then to make such comments on it as may appear necessary. I shall therefore only follow up what has been said on one subject so far as this, contenting myself with expressing my hope that in the statement he is about to make the noble Lord will give a full explanation as to the intention of the Government to diminish the armament and men on board our ships, which has excited some surprise out of doors. With regard to the reappointment of the Committee to inquire into the constitution of the Board of Admiralty, considering the very imperfect state in which that inquiry was left by the evidence given last year, I certainly had expected that at the commencement of the present Session some Motion would have been made for the re-appointment of that Committee; and I cannot help thinking the feeling of the Government will be that so important an inquiry as that, having been left in so very unsatisfactory a state, ought properly to be proceeded with. But, whatever the opinion of the Government as to the re-appointment of that Committee with regard to the constitution of the Board of Admiralty, I beg to remind the Government and the House that another question of very great interest was referred to that Committee—I mean the present system of promotion and retirement in the Royal Navy. If I remember rightly, the noble
 637
 SIR MICHAEL SEYMOUR  said, that the  Britannia 633
 SIR MORTON PETO  wished to know from the noble Lord the Secretary of the Admiralty what were the views of the Government with regard to floating basins and docks to receive the large iron-sheathed vessels they were building and must continue to build? He had in former Sessions called the attention of the House to this question, particularly with reference to Portsmouth. They must have some other great naval depot in the Channel for steam ships. It would be impossible ever to make Portsmouth as secure as the great central depot of the Channel ought to be if we were to provide for the maintenance of our power on the seas. If he had been correctly informed, the  Warrior 636
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he believed that the combination of wood and iron in the construction of ships of war was injudicious. Ships should be constructed either of wood or iron. To combine both would only result in having a weak vessel. The shaking of the screw would in two or three months make a ship so leaky as to be unsafe. This arose simply from the fact that wood could not be so strongly bound together as iron could be by riveting. The Government was entitled to the greatest possible indulgence. In the last fourteen years the changes in scientific knowledge of the construction of ships had been great and rapid. He hoped that the Government would not be in too great haste to build more iron ships than those already ordered, but would first thoroughly try those they had already got. The whole matter was completely experimental. The  Warrior 686 687
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that his hon. Friends the Members for Sunderland and Montrose seemed to imagine that he had been very much deceived when he made his statement last year as to the strength of the iron fleet which the French Government was building. He could assure them, that if there was any delusion upon the subject, it was on their part, and not on his. He did not want to repeat every year the names of the ships which the French were building and the places at which they were being built, but he might assure the Committee that the statement which he made last year was perfectly accurate. The twenty-six iron ships which he then said were some of them completed and others in progress, were now either completed or in progress; and so far was their number from being diminished that, unless he was greatly misinformed, the French Government not a long time ago ordered the construction of ten more of what they called floating batteries, which were iron ships of a smaller description.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Mr. Speaker, I am desirous of saying a few words upon a matter of great interest and importance to the House, because it bears upon one of our most important privileges—I mean that privilege which is sanctioned by ancient customs, and I believe confirmed by the Bill of Rights—that there shall be perfect freedom of speech in debates of this House. It is our privilege to say whatever we think right in Parliament, and it is a breach of the privileges of this House that what any Member says in this House should be questioned out of this House by any person whomsoever. That is the corporate privilege of Parliament, and a most important one it is; for without freedom of speech on the part of Members of this House the proper functions of this House could not be adequately and usefully discharged. To counterbalance that latitude we have rules and regulations of our own. We have rules and regulations by which any Member is liable to be stopped by the person who sits in your chair, Sir—the Speaker for the time being—if he says anything contrary to the usages of Parliament, and contrary to those rules and regulations which, for the dignity and decorum of this House, have been established and practised, and which ought to be observed. But beyond this there is another rule established. Where it happens that the Speaker may not feel or understand the offensive force of some expression bearing on a Member of the House, it is competent for the Member
 618 "House of Commons, Feb. 21, 1862. "My dear Peel,—It has been suggested to me that The O'Donoghue may contemplate sending you a hostile message in consequence of what he considers your allusion to him in your speech
 619 "Your duty, therefore, in such case would be to decline the invitation; and I should in such case deem it my duty to state the matter to the House at its meeting on Monday, in order that the House might deal with the matter in the manner which it has usually dealt with matters of the same kind on former occasions. "It seems to me, moreover, that your official position renders it the more incumbent upon you to avoid infringing the privileges of Parliament and making yourself a party to what would be a public scandal. "Yours sincerely, "PALMERSTON. "The Right Hon. Sir Robert Peel, Bart., &c."
 MR. BEAMISH  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether his attention has been called to the state of the law relating to Charitable Bequests in Ireland; and whether it is his intention to introduce a Bill during the present Session for the purpose of altering the present constitution of the Board of Charitable Bequests?
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he rose to move the following resolution:—
 "That, in the opinion of this House, her Majesty's Government ought to adopt measures to carry into effect the recommendations of the select committee of this House appointed in 1860 to inquire into the transport service, or at least such portions of the report of 1861 as were unanimously adopted by the said Committee." s d s s s 702 "1. That the victualling and the transport department should be separated; 2. That the transport of stores should be removed from the charge of the India Board; and, 3. That the Emigration Office should be abolished and its duties transferred to the Transport Board. 703 704 "That, as a general rule, Government transports are much more costly than hired troop-ships; and, considering the vast extent of the mercantile marine of this country, and the magnificent steamships and vessels of every description which can at all times be obtained, your Committee are of opinion that Government should in future rely still more on the mercantile marine for the transport of troops." 705
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS:  Sir, the time was when Governments were accused of too great a desire to create new departments and new boards, and when the principal function of independent Members of this House was to restrain the appetite of a Government for wasteful expenditure of that description, by which its patronage in new appointments was increased. Now, however, we have lived to see quite a different state of things arise. The creation of new branches of Government is not unfrequently recommended in this House by independent Committees and independent Members; and it not unfrequently falls to the lot of a Minister to decline, at all events for a time, the creation of a new department of the State. Well, I find myself in that; position in the present case. I quite admit that the Report of the Committee of last Session was a well-considered report, that its recommendations are worthy of the attention of the House, and ultimately of adoption by the Government. But I am not at this moment enabled to say that the Government will at once act upon those recommendations. My hon. Friend said the result of his proposal would be that the work which was now done by fifteen persons would be done by three. It is very likely that it would be necessary to create a board consisting of perhaps three Members and a secretary upon whom this duty should be devolved; but I confess that my experience of changes of this sort does not lead me to anticipate with great confidence that the services of the fifteen other gentlemen who are said to be superseded will be dispensed with, and that a reduction to that extent in the different departments will take place. I think the House must expect, that if this new department should be established, there would be some additional number of persons employed
 706 707 708
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he was glad to hear that the right hon. Baronet admitted that efficiency and economy would be the result of establishing a Transport Board. As a member of the Committee, he could not but express his regret that the question had been left under consideration for two years. He thought sufficient time had been afforded for the various departments to make any arrangements that might be necessary. He had heard, that had not the American difficulty been settled so soon, a Transport Board would have been immediately established. The blue-book showed the great emergencies that occurred at the commencement of the Crimean war, and as no one could tell when a fresh difficulty might spring up, he thought that now was the time, when affairs were quiet, to make any changes that were necessary.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that his noble Friend at the head of the Colonial Office also objected to the amalgamation on colonial grounds, for the reasons just stated by his hon. Friend.
 MR. LINDSAY , in reply, said, that as the right hon. Gentleman had admitted the principle for which he contended, he should rest satisfied with the pledge of the Government on the subject, and should not press his Motion.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he quite agreed with the hon. Gentleman that the subject to which he had called attention was a large and important one, and that in several of its branches there could be very little difference of opinion as to its being desirable to improve the law. But to agree to an abstract resolution in the terms proposed by the hon. Gentleman would be inexpedient and productive of no advantage. The hon. Gentleman had referred to the very learned and able publication of Mr. Stephens, which obviously had suggested to him the terms of I his original Motion. That Motion was for the consolidation of the Ecclesiastical and Eleemosynary Statutes, which happened to be the title of that learned gentleman's voluminous work. He was not surprised that his hon. Friend, on taking up that
 715 716 717 718
 MR. LOCKE KING  said, he could not take credit for having induced the House to adopt any species of law reform. He had only been instrumental in getting rid of the Commissioners, and he felt glad at having done so, because, so long as they occupied the ground, nothing was done in
 720
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL:  I meant no disrespect to Dr. Stephens.
 MR. LOCKE KING  said, he rose to ask
 721
 MR. A. TURNER  said, he was glad that a Bill on the subject was to be introduced, because the existing regulations caused great inconvenience and frequent complaints, particularly in the counties of Lancashire and Yorkshire. The magistrates of Lancashire had made a strong presentment on the subject, complaining that the scale interfered with the due administration of justice by deterring witnesses from attending courts to give evidence. He had heard of the case of a
 722 s d
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he heartily concurred in the general views and principles which his hon. and learned Friend had expressed, and in his estimate of the practical importance of the subject. His noble and learned Friend the Lord Chancellor had authorized him to state that his attention had been directed to that very subject, and that he had it in contemplation to embody that, as well as other points touching the practice and procedure in the Court of Chancery, in a Bill which it was his intention to lay on the table of the other House. At the same time, his noble and learned Friend did not wish to throw any impediment in the way of his hon. and learned Friend. who was so well entitled to contribute his valuable assistance upon questions with which he was so well acquainted. He thought that they would all concur in the main principles which his hon. and learned Friend had laid down — that it was of the utmost importance that every court should be, as far as possible, complete in itself, and that multiplicity of litigation should be got rid of, not merely discouraged. In the nature of things, courts of equity must be as competent to deal with questions of law as any other courts,
 726
 MR. COWPER  said, he rose to move that the Chairman be directed to move the House that leave be given to bring in a Bill to amend the London Coal and Wine Duties Continuance Act, 1861, and to authorize the formation of a road between Kensington Gore and Bayswater, and to apply the proceeds of the Metropolis Improvement Fund account towards defraying the cost of the construction of such road. It was with considerable reluctance that he asked the Committee to entertain the Motion, not merely because it was always unpleasant to deal with questions of taste in Parliament, nor because the question was mixed up with parochial and metropolitan jealousies, but chiefly because the office he had the honour to hold had for one of its special duties the guardianship of the public parks. He was therefore anxious to protect them as much as he could against any interference which would diminish the recreation and enjoyment of Her Majesty's subjects. A very strong case, however, had been made out for the proposed interference with the existing stale of the parks. For the last two years lie had received representations that the formation of a road across Kensington Gardens from north to south was a very urgent and a very necessary metropolitan improvement. Recently he had received a deputation from the five parishes of St. George, Hanover Square, Marylebone, Paddington, Kensington, and Chelsea, showing that the want of some such road as that he now proposed was urgently felt by all the inhabitants of those parts, and representing that it was a hard case that the Park and Kensington Gardens should oppose a barrier of two miles to the passage of any carriage from north to south. He felt there was great force in the demand which had been preferred, that the Crown should allow a carriage road to be made to meet the permanent wants of that portion of the Metropolis. He spoke not of a temporary want, which might arise this year from the Exhibition, but of one of the permanent wants of London. It was obviously a great in-
 728 729 730 Vict 731 732 733
 MR. COWPER  replied, that the engineers whom he had consulted on the subject by no means proposed to construct the antiquated and absurd description of bridge to which the hon. Gentleman had alluded, but to employ flat iron girders to span the arches. Neither was it intended to have so large a headway as had been mentioned; it was quite open to the engineer to carry the road as low as he might think necessary, in order to clear the upper surface. Looking at the plans and sections, he had every reason to believe that 10 ½feet would be a sufficient depression, and certainly the bridge at Rotten Row would not be above that level. The bridges in Kensington Gardens would be slightly raised, but they would be very light, and would not be so arranged as not to divide the gardens, as the hon. Gentleman supposed, into two parts. For his own part, he did not see how it could fairly be contended that such would be the result, when persons might cross the road in six or seven places within the distance of half a mile. The slope to which the hon. Gentleman referred would not be at an angle of forty-five degrees, it being proposed that it should be supported
 735
 MR. BANKS STANHOPE  said, that he strongly objected to the formation of a permanent road across Kensington Gardens. There was scarcely a feature in the metropolis worthy the notice of foreigners except the parks and those gardens, and he could never consent to sacrifice them merely to promote the success of the present Bill. A temporary road might, if necessary, be made along the west side of Rotten Row, which would simply cause slight temporary inconvenience to equestrians. The right hon. Gentleman had not answered the question raised by the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton). That was not a matter merely affecting the interests of Tyburnia or Belgravia, but was one of national importance. He wished to know whether the Bill was intended for the making of a permanent or a temporary road, or whether the two were to be combined in it?
 MR. COWPER  said, that after the appeal made to him by the noble Lord the member for Marylebone, he (Mr. Cowper) felt himself very much in the position of the camel whose back was broken by the last feather. In the quarter from which he had expected staunch support he had met with strong opposition. Seeing that the feeling of the Committee was so decidedly against a permanent road, he should only be wasting time by persevering with the Bill. But before the Chairman left the chair, he wished to make one
 741
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he hoped that after the satisfactory reply of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for War the hon. Member for Sunderland would not press his Motion to a division. He thought the recommendations were being carried out with extraordinary rapidity, as the principle was admitted by the Government, and two of the most important departments were already acting in accordance with those recommendations.
 LORD HOTHAM  said, that having been a Member of a deputation from Yorkshire on the subject, he wished to corroborate the opinion entertained as to the injury and inconvenience accruing to the present administration of the law from the present mode of paying witnesses.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he believed that the difficulty in which the First Commissioner of Works found himself placed at that moment was mainly owing to his having confused the duties of his office with others which did not belong to him, and he trusted that the result of that unfortunate Bill would be, that the right hon. Gentleman would for the future confine himself to the discharge of his important public functions. The right hon. Gentleman had distinctly stated that, as guardian of the Royal Parks, he had serious objections to the proposed road, but that in his private capacity, looking at the road as a great metropolitan improvement, he thought it ought to be made. Let the Committee support the right hon. Gentleman in the performance of the special duties of his office. It was as a metropolitan improvement, however, that the right hon. Gentleman wished them to support him in making this road. But that was precisely the function which the right hon. Gentleman was not called on to discharge; and if he would only leave it to the proper authorities to carry out metropolitan improvements, he would greatly facilitate the discharge of his own important duties, and spare the House a great many unsatisfactory discussions. The right hon. Gentleman had found a supporter in the noble Lord at the head of the Government, who sometimes assumed the whole management of the Office of Works on his own shoulders. That noble Lord said they were called on to say aye or no to a great metropolitan improvement. Well, but great metropolitan improvements had been by Act of Parliament delegated to another body. If, then, the proposed road were a great metropolitan improvement, it was for the Metropolitan Board of Works to decide whether it should be carried out. No doubt a great metropolitan improvement might be carried into one of the Royal Parks, and in that case the right hon. Gentleman would
 739
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, that the right hon. Baronet had selected the most unimportant part of his hon. Friend's proposal for his criticism, and had quite passed over the kernel and gist of his Motion. The right hon. Baronet had, in fact, censured, not the proposal of his hon. Friend, but the practice that existed in the House at that moment. It was quite conceivable that the Speaker and some hon. Gentleman should be confronted in the House, while one spoke and the other listened, and that might go on the whole evening, because there would very likely be forty Members in the library and smoking-room who would rush in, make a House, and then disappear. Therefore, the right hon. Gentleman condemned that which existed,' and not what his hon. Friend proposed. If hon. Members intended to carry out the rigid theory, and to hear every speech before they voted upon it, then they must abolish the two-minute glass, which enabled Members to leave the smoking-room and make a House. If they did not intend to act on that theory, then there was no standing-ground for opposing the Motion. By maintaining the present system the House did not get rid of one dull speech, silence one bore, or facilitate the business of the House. The important part of his hon. Friend's Motion was, that when an hon. Member took notice that forty Members were not present, he should do so on his own responsibility, and that he should not conceal his name. He wished the House to observe that that was the solitary bit of secrecy in
 697 Cries of
 MR. AYRTON  said, he was anxious to have some further information on the subject of the road proposed than the right hon. Gentleman had afforded. He had not, for instance, told the Committee what kind of road it was intended to construct, or given any explanations as to the height of the proposed bridges or the depth of the cuttings. It was true that on a previous evening he had been understood to say that the road would be some feet below the level of the parks, and that it
 734
 LORD FERMOY  said, he knew no reason why the Ecclesiastical Statutes might not be consolidated in one or two years. He ventured to express a hope that the Church of England and that of Ireland—or, more properly speaking, "the United Church of England and Ireland"—would be dealt with as one. If the Government did not treat them as one, but dealt with the Act of Union as waste paper, he hoped they would call together the Irish Parliament to deal with Irish Church matters.
 LORD FERMOY  said, that while not going to the full extent with the argument of the Solicitor General he thought that the instalment which the hon. and learned Gentleman had promised would do something. The fact that the Solicitor General called Dr. Stephens's book a jumble of everything, showed the necessity for a complete consolidation.
 LORD FERMOY  said, that he believed the right hon. Gentleman to be one of those men who were more formidable to his friends than to his enemies. He (Lord Fermoy) had been one of the colleagues of the right hon. Gentleman in endeavouring to get a road made across the park, but even those who were most anxious for such a communication, were quite opposed to his engineering crotchet, which, indeed, was distasteful to everybody but to some few individuals in his own office. The right hon. Gentleman hazarded the very principle of carrying a
 740
 MR. MACEVOY  said, he rose to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government, Whether it was the intention of the Government to make any proposal to Parliament, in accordance with the suggestion of the Secretary for Ireland, respecting the erection of a College in Dublin in connection with the Queen's University?
 MR. BENTINCK  in reply said, that the admirable speech of his noble Friend (Lord R. Cecil) had not been answered. He had never heard much romance in the speeches of the hon. Member for Liskeard (Mr. Osborne), and the speech just delivered was not only devoid of romance, but of matter of fact, because he entirely misconstrued both the Motion and the arguments in support of it. As to the insuperable difficulty alluded to by the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary as to the shortness of the time which would be afforded for counting out, all he need say was that the difficulty would be avoided by giving the mover of the count precedence over any other new speaker. The right hon. Gentleman had made another starling assertion. He said the front benches had no power to 'arrange a count-out. Now, he (Mr. Bentinck) appealed to hon. Members whether, over and over again, they had not known the whips arrange the count out—whether it had not taken place frequently? The right hon. Gentleman had stated that private Members had three days each week. But, really, Wednesday went for nothing; Friday, generally speaking, was a  dies non
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he rose to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice, to make an alteration in the 57th paragraph of the Rules, Orders, and Forms of Proceeding of the House. He would ask the attention of the House for a short time while he endeavoured to explain the object which he had in view. If hon. Gentlemen would do him the favour of reading the motion as it stood, and of comparing it with the rule of the House to which he referred, they would at once see the modification which he wished to effect. He had put his Motion in the shape which he thought would render it most intelligible to the House. By the insertion of a few words at the commencement of the rule of the House he wished to prevent any hon. Member being interrupted in the course of his speech in order that the House might be counted. By the introduction of a few words at the end of the paragraph he proposed to fix upon the hon. Member who called attention to the fact that forty Members were not present, and thereby interrupted the progress of public business, the responsibility of that act, by the insertion of his name in the votes and proceedings of the House published the following morning. All those Members who were present on the occasion, and who might fairly be considered as dissentients from the Motion, would also obtain the advantage of having their names recorded in the votes and proceedings of that House. He begged the House to understand that there was nothing in his Motion, nor had he the slightest desire, to interfere in any way with the existing right of any hon. Member to call upon the Speaker to count the House. On the contrary, he believed nothing was more essential to the proper conduct of the business of the House, or a better safeguard of their rights and privileges, than the retention of this power to count the House when circumstances occurred to justify such a proceeding. The alteration only affected the manner of exercising that right. It might be contended that for a debate to continue when forty Members were not present was an infringement of the rule of the House; but what happened practically was this:—A number of Members flocked in as soon as the Motion was made, and the Speaker having counted and declared that more than forty were present, those Members who had come in
 691 692 693 "That if it appear on notice being taken, at the close of the Speech of any Member (such notice not to be taken during the time that any Member is addressing the House), or on the Report of a Division of the House by the Tellers, after Four o'clock, that Forty Members are not present, Mr. Speaker do adjourn the House without a Question first put till the next sitting day; and the name of the Member who has taken such notice, and also the name of every Member present when the House is counted, shall be taken down by the Clerk of the House, and published on the following day in the Votes and Proceedings."
 MR. HADFIELD  said, they had several immense volumes of statutes on ecclesiastical law which might he reduced within very small limits; and he believed that if they were consolidated, and the repealed Acts taken out of the way, it would be a boon to the student, the profession, and the country at large. He was glad to see a prospect of the Church Building Acts being reduced to something like an intelligible form. He was sure the Lord Chancellor was in earnest in the matter, and he hoped now something would be done. At the same time he trusted that the Government, in prosecuting legal reforms, would not confine their attention exclusively to ecclesiastical measures.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he wished to express his concurrence in the principle of the Bill, but it was his opinion that in the event of this Bill becoming law the common law judges should be engaged to assist in the trial of the issues of cases in equity courts, and that barristers practising at common law should be admitted to the equity courts without a breach of etiquette.
 MR. PAULL  observed, that he regretted to say he felt himself at variance with the hon. Member who moved the Resolution. He thought it exceedingly inexpedient to pass any law or by-law which would sooner or later become inoperative. He did not think the object of the hon. Mover would be attained by the adoption of his Motion. Were they to consider that a quorum of the House should consist of forty Members or not? If they considered that fewer than forty Members should not constitute a House in which questions of importance should be debated and decided, the whole argument fell to the ground. He thought forty too few. The time was when sixty was the smallest number of
 698
 MR. H. SEYMOUR  said, he rose to move that it was expedient that the Ecclesiastical Statutes be revised with a view to their consolidation, and he did so upon two grounds. The first was, that ecclesiastical matters were at length claiming the attention of the Government, and the Home Secretary had given notice of a Bill for the reform of the Ecclesiastical Courts, to which his own Motion might be said to be supplementary. The second ground was, that the consolidation of the statutes was regarded as a work which ought to occupy the attention of Parliament, more especially at a time when it was not occupied with the consideration of subjects of an important external character, and when the Session was likely to derive its character from the promotion of measures for effecting important internal improvements. The Commission for Consolidating the Statute Law had resolved, after mature discussion, that the best way of carrying out this consolidation was not by any general system, but by choosing groups of statutes devoted to one particular subject, and consolidating each group separately. With regard to the consolidation of the statutes generally, the first Motion was brought forward by Lord Brougham in 1833, when a commission was appointed to consolidate the criminal statutes. They reported in 1835, and then the matter lay dormant until 1853. In 1854 another commission was appointed, and existed till 1859, when it ceased. It made several valuable reports, and left many materials for future consolidation. The result was, that there had been three great consolidations of the law of late years — the Bankrupt Act in 1849, which paved the way for the amended Act of last year; the Customs Act in 1853, when from 1,000 to 1,500 statutes were consolidated;
 711 712 713 Record 714
 MR. SEYMOUR  in reply said, that he could not accept the amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Surrey, because he thought there was more to be hoped from the promised measure of the Solicitor General than could be got from what the hon. member (Mr. L. King) proposed. As he understood, there was at present no work of consolidation going on, but only expurgation by two gentlemen. If that state of things were allowed to continue, half a century might elapse before the desired object was accomplished. The Statute Law Commissioners had reported that, to a great extent, amendment and consolidation might go on together. After what had been stated by the Solicitor General he would, with the permission of the House, withdraw his motion.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he also hoped the Motion would not be pressed. With respect to the third recommendation of the Committee, he wished to make one or two suggestions which might, perhaps, be considered by the Government before finally adopting any course as to the Emigration Department. The recommendation in the Report was, that that Department should be abolished altogether; but in describing the duties of the office some of its most important functions were omitted. The hon. Member for Sunderland had omitted to refer to the duty cast upon the Emigration Department to carry out the provisions of the Passenger Act. Every vessel leaving this country with passengers was inspected by that department, upon which also devolved the duty of prosecuting in cases of ill-treatment of passengers whether leaving or arriving in the United Kingdom. When the Committee recommended the abolition of the Emigration Department, they should have pointed out what other department ought to discharge those most important duties. The arrangements for sending Government emigrants to the colonies had been put upon the same footing as the transport of stores and soldiers; but that was a mistake. The greater part of the funds employed in the conveyance of emigrants was not the money of this country, but the money of the colonies. A very large proportion of the expenses of the Emigration Office itself was defrayed by the colonies. He would ask the House whether they were prepared to transfer to a department having nothing to do with the colonies the duty of looking after the safety and comfort of these emigrants, or would they wish to cast that duty entirely upon independent agencies appointed by the colonies themselves? The latter would inevitably happen if the Admiralty did the work of the present Emigration Office. The colonies were unwilling that an arrangement should be made by which these functions were taken away from a department with which they were in direct communication, and turned over to a department with which they had nothing to do.
 MR. FREELAND  said, he entirely sympathized with the motives which had induced his hon. Friend to bring the subject before the House. One more important, he thought, could not engage their attention. He concurred, however, with his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General that it would be inexpedient for the House on a matter of such magnitude to commit itself to the terms of a somewhat vague resolution. The Solicitor General had placed the real question in a. very plain and intelligible form before the House, and had promised on the part of the Government that as regards the statutes relating to church building, they would at once apply themselves to the work of consolidation; and those statutes certainly required, more than many others, to be so dealt with. He had also intimated that the statutes relating to residence should be consolidated, and that other groups should be dealt with in u similar manner. He (Mr. Freeland) thought that this was the proper course to pursue to effect a few simple reforms in the law, and to present results in a
 719
 MR. LOCKE  said, they had often been promised consolidation, not only of the Ecclesiastical Statutes, but of the laws generally. And he wished to know, before they went into the matter before them what had been done in respect to the consolidation of various other laws? He was aware that, at the instance of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Suffolk (Sir FitzRoy Kelly), several gentlemen had been employed to condense and consolidate various branches of the law. Among other subjects taken up, a Bill had been prepared embracing the whole of the law with regard to aliens. The measure passed last year was not strictly an Act for the consolidation of criminal law, but only of what were commonly called Sir Robert Peel's Acts; and, owing to the course which had been adopted in consolidating with them certain portions of Lord Campbell's Acts, considerable practical inconvenience had arisen. Some of the clauses only having been repealed and others left standing, it became necessary to consult two Acts for the future instead of one.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE:  I do not
 699 "Do good by stealth, and blush to find it fame." 700
 MR. W. EWART  said, he thought that it was important that the Member who might move to count the House should have his name published, as he assumed a great responsibility in putting a stop to the machinery of legislation and the business of the House. The whole of the hon. Member's propositions appeared to be worthy of consideration. Publicity was the soul of their proceedings, and for that reason he objected to a Member going secretly, stealthily, behind the chair and putting an end to a debate in that way, when all the other proceedings were fair and open. He thought the Motion deserved the attention of the House.
 SIR GEORGE GREY:  Sir, I must express my hope that the House will not assent to a Motion which will, I think, tend very much to discredit the proceedings of this House. The hon. Gentleman has said that he does not intend to limit the right which any hon. Gentleman now has to take notice that forty Members are not present; but if the House adopts his Motion, it will, I think, tend to restrain that right, by limiting the period during which the Speaker may be called on to count the House to the short time which elapses between one Member sitting down and another rising. The hon. Member says there are two motives for counting out the House—one to get rid of a dull and uninteresting debate, and he does not object to get rid of such debates; and the other to prevent the discussion of some inconvenient subject. But is it in the power of any Government or of any Opposition to prevent the discussion of any inconvenient subject, provided it is one which, in the opinion of any considerable number of Members, ought to be discussed? It is a complete delusion to suppose that at the present time, when there is so much less party following than there used to be, any Government can prevent the discussion of a subject which a very considerable number of the Members of this House think ought to occupy the attention of the House. The hon. Gentleman has stated that the practice of counting the House was had recourse to twelve times during the last year, and thirteen times during the previous year; but I think the hon. Gentleman is mistaken in supposing that the House was counted out on the majority of those occasions at an early period of the evening. The House has been counted out once already during the present Session; but it was then between twelve and one o'clock in the morning, after the principal business had been disposed of; and it would, I think, turn out that on many occasions during the two previous years the House was counted out after twelve o'clock, owing
 695 696
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he wished to reintroduce the Bill of his right lion. Friend the War Secretary for the amendment of the Acts relating to the payment of expenses of prosecutions. It was proposed that there should be a uniform scale of allowances to witnesses payable by the Treasury, which should in no case be exceeded; but that the county magistrates should have power, subject to the approval of the Secretary of State to increase the allowances out of their own funds. He moved for leave to bring in the Bill.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  explained, that the Bill was the same that was brought in by his right hon. Friend (Sir George Lewis) last Session. It was founded on the Report of the Commission of 1858. He would not put the second reading for a very early day, and he wished the Bill to be printed before he named a day for the second reading.
 MR. ROLT  said, he rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to regulate the procedure of the Court of Chancery. The object of his Bill was simply to make it imperative on the Courts of Chancery to determine every question of law and fact necessary to enable them to administer the jurisdiction they possessed. He did not desire either to enlarge or to diminish, to alter or affect in any way the jurisdiction of these courts. In the exercise of i that jurisdiction, however, there often arose questions of law and fact, which, under the present mode of procedure, the courts of equity were in the habit of referring to the courts of law for their opinion or decision as preliminary to the determination of the equitable questions arising in the case, and he proposed by this Bill that this course of procedure should be discontinued. The object of the Bill, though simple, was therefore of considerable importance, and would produce very large results in the administration of justice in those courts. He was quite conscious that the  onus 723 Vict c 724 viva voce 725
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that he had opposed the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman the other night, because he thought that a question of such importance and interest should not be discussed in a House consisting only of about twenty-five members. It was usual to allow a Bill to be brought in without opposition, that the House might be enabled to form an opinion as to its merits or demerits; but his right hon. Friend had given so full a description of his measure that there was nothing more to learn concerning it, and upon his description the metropolitan Members were satisfied that there was no cause for allowing the Bill to proceed. He thought it much better that it should be at once understood that the Bill would not be allowed to go on, in order that other arrangements might be made for the accommodation of the traffic to and from the forthcoming Exhibition. He (Sir John Shelley) thought that the right hon. Gentleman had rather shirked one part of the question which he brought before the House the other night, and that was as to the source from which the funds for the construction of the proposed road were to be obtained. The right hon. Gentleman had told the House fairly enough the other night that it was by an oversight that the sum of £32,000 was not included in the Act of last Session appropriating the proceeds of the coal tax to the Thames Embankment, and that he thought the money might now be employed in the construction of the road. He (Sir John Shelley) did not believe there was any difference of opinion as to the great advantage that would accrue to both Kensington and Paddington from a road running between them, and he believed that both localities, if they were empowered by law to do so, would readily contribute towards so great an improvement. The Metropolitan Board of Works, which was intrusted with the funds of the metropolis at large, would likewise be perfectly justified in voting a sum of money for such a purpose. But the real question now before the Committee was, whether the plan proposed by the First Commissioner of Public Works was the one best calculated to accomplish the object which all desired to attain? He was anxious, if the
 736
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY:  And through all the other gates in the Park.
 MR. KNIGHTLEY  said, he rose to second the Motion, as he believed it was calculated to remedy a state of things that was most inconvenient, particularly as regarded independent Members. He was at a loss to know on what ground the Motion of his hon. Friend could be opposed. On occasions when the fate of a Ministry was at stake, and when, perhaps, 600 Members voted in the division, it frequently happened that there were not thirty Members present at some portions of the debate. If that was the case on occasions of great importance, a  fortiori 694 "—The last rose of summer, left  sleeping his vanished
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : The subject has been under the notice of the Government, and communications with the Board have passed; but, at present, I am not aware that the Government have any intention of introducing a Bill.
 MR. JACKSON  said, that having been a member of the Committee he was quite content with the assurance of the right hon. Baronet, but he would press upon
 709
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : No question of the sort has yet been brought under the consideration of the Government.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON:  But all the traffic passing through those gates must come round by Hyde Park Corner; and what, I ask, would you gain when you got to the Marble Arch by coming down through the Park instead of along Park Lane? The only advantage would be, that you would avoid, perhaps, some obstruction in the narrow part of Park Lane. You would, however, make no saving in point of distance, which is the very object sought to be attained. However, I shall not go further into that matter; but I shall be glad to have the opinion of the Committee upon the question of a permanent road, and
 738
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON:  I so far agree with the hon. Baronet who has just spoken that I think the matter before the Committee has been pretty fully explained by my right hon. Friend, and that, as the Committee is tolerably full, we may as well come to a decision upon it now as wait for the second reading. No more information can be derived from a perusal of the Bill than has already been given by my right hon. Friend in his opening speech. This really is a question in which the Government have no particular interest. It relates mainly to the convenience of the metropolis. Everybody must admit that there is a great want of communication between that great mass of town which lies to the north of Hyde Park and Kensington Gardens and the huge city, as I may truly call it, which is growing up in the south. There are two questions—how and in what direction that communication is to be made, and who is to pay for it. My right hon. Friend has proposed a direction which is the shortest
 737
 MR. STANLEY  said, that in moving for returns on the subject two years before, he first directed the attention of the House to a very great abuse. He thought, however, that the regulations about to be introduced by the Secretary of State would prevent the recurrence of what was a disgrace to the country.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was glad to find that the Secretary of State had taken the matter up. He was horrified to see in a recent return that a child under ten years of age had been ordered to be flogged with a cat, and another to receive fifty strokes with a birch rod—sufficient, if they were real strokes, to cut the child in halves. He thought the time had come when these practices should be put under some regulation. If they did not, the effect would be to set people against a punishment which, under due reserve, might prove a salutary means of punishment. He did not think that the power of inflicting corporal punishment upon refractory criminals in gaol could be advantageously taken away, for there were some men who could be reached in no other way. At the same time, he believed that in well managed prisons there were few cases in which it would be requisite to inflict it. He rejoiced to hear that the Secretary of State proposed to
 745
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, that the result of a long experience in the army convinced him that the lash did very little good. He had been for ten years in command of a regiment, and during that period not a man had been flogged. The return of cases in which the lash had been inflicted had filled him with perfect horror. It mentioned one case of a child of three years of age being flogged with a birch rod, but he trusted that was a mistake. In some counties there was no punishment of that kind. In Cumberland, for instance, the lash had not been inflicted in the course of three years, during which time in Lancashire 8,479 lashes had been inflicted.
 SIR BALDWIN LElGHT0N  said, that it might appear harsh to inflict severe corporal punishment upon young children for trivial offences; but in these cases it frequently happened that the child had previously a bad character, and it was for that, as well as the particular offence with which he was charged that the punishment was inflicted.
 MR. MOFFATT  said, that the Bill had been published only that morning, and Members therefore could not have read it. He therefore desired that it should be well understood that the principle of the Bill was not taken to be affirmed by its passing through the second reading in order to be referred to a Select Committee.
 MR. SELWYN  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he also thought the Member for Sheffield (Mr. Hadfield) had acted judiciously in adopting the suggestion of the Secretary of State; but that he would have done better to omit the
 744
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that as it appeared the large agricultural boroughs were to be exempted from the operation of the Bill, he should like to know what was the principle of the measure. Was Nottingham to be included when East Retford, Crickdale, and other boroughs were to be excluded? They had heard a good deal of fancy franchises, but the Bill set up a fancy franchise far more deplorable than any they had yet heard of—namely, the possession of a certain power of pedestrianism. The Bill in effect enacted that a poor elector who could walk a certain number of miles should have a vote, and that the elector who could not should be disfranchised. He objected to any fancy franchises of that kind. If through physical infirmity a voter could not walk to the poll he saw no harm in permitting a candidate to provide a conveyance for him. The Bill before the House, however, was really a proposal to disfranchise a certain number of the poorer voters of the United Kingdom.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he wished, before the House went to a division, to say one word as to the real nature of the clause which he had had the honour to introduce, and which the Bill of the lion, and learned Gentleman sought to repeal. Now the hon. and learned Gentleman had en-
 768 769
 MR. AYRTON  said, that two or three years previously, when the Metropolitan Board of Works asked for increased powers, he contended that they did not enjoy the confidence either of the inhabitants of the Metropolis or of the House, and moved for the appointment of a Committee to inquire into the local government of the Metropolis. The result of that Committee must have satisfied the House that the position he affirmed was well founded. The Committee unanimously recommended that it was desirable that the constitution of the Board should be changed, by substituting for the present imperfect and novel mode of election, that which was well understood and generally prevalent throughout the country. The noble Lord who established the Board thought that a better selection would be obtained if the members were elected by the vestries, but no one was now more grievously disappointed than the noble Lord himself as to the result. It was generally admitted that the sooner they got rid of the present system of election the better, and therefore it was his intention to propose a mode of election in conformity with the recommendation of the Committee. He regretted that the Board had not introduced a clause into their own Bill to alter the mode of election. Perhaps they had felt some delicacy about destroying themselves. He had not introduced any Bill for that purpose, as he preferred to extend to them the Asiatic politeness, which allowed a criminal the option of suicide before ordering his execution. He proposed also to give them a large power of relegating certain parts of their duties to Committees—a system which was found to work exceedingly well in the Corporation of the City of London, which, in its constitution, was the best corporation of England. He regretted that its benefits were not extended to the whole Metropolis, but gentlemen within the walls of
 751
 MR BLACK  said, he considered that in most cases where there was whipping there ought to be no imprisonment. If boys convicted of trivial offences had a slight castigation at the police station, and were then sent home, it would be far better than by sending them to prison to diminish the terrors of the gaol.
 MR. BRISTOW  said, he was at a loss to understand how further time could be wanted for the consideration of a Bill which had been brought in from year to year, which had passed the ordeal of a Select Committee, and which had afterwards been carried through all its stages in the House of Commons. The Bill went up last Session to the House of Lords, and the only reason it did not pass was, that it reached that House after the time fixed for second readings. To refer it again to a Select Committee would be, in fact, to throw it over for the Session. He was therefore strongly opposed to any such suggestion. The alleged quarrel between the Metropolitan Board of Works and the City only existed in the fertile imagination of the hon. Member for Southwark. Certain duties were imposed upon the Board of Works by statute, which they carried out quietly and steadily, and although questions had of course arisen requiring solution in the usual manner, they did not interfere with the City nor did the City interfere with them. To suppose that they were influenced by any feeling against the City of London was only one of the peculiar idiosyncrasies in which the hon. Member indulged. The Bill had been introduced exactly in the same state as it passed the Commons last year. The Board had not thought it proper to include any provision as to the mode of election, because such provision was not in the Bill of last year; but it was quite open to any hon. Member to bring up a clause upon that subject.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he hoped that the provisions of the Bill would be carefully considered in the Select Committee. He did not see why there should be a special enactment with regard to the fraudulent imitation of trade marks. That offence ought to be dealt with by some general law against attempts to defraud. He conceived that the extension of the Bill of the summary jurisdiction given to magistrates was very objectionable, and he thought the Bill defective, inasmuch as, though it contained an enactment to prevent one trader using the trade mark which was already the property of another trader, it did not provide against a very common fraud on the public, consisting in traders using their own trade marks in selling short measures.
 MR. FOLJAMBE  said, he intended to record his humble vote in favour of the Bill, because it had for its object the restraint of lavish and profuse expenditure, and the checking of abuses bordering on corruption. He did not feel himself precluded from voting for the Bill by the circumstance that he represented one of the four boroughs that had been alluded to in the debate (East Retford). He shared the feelings of the hon. Member for Shoreham to a considerable extent, for there were only four polling-places in his borough, and to reach them voters had to walk a distance of six or seven miles. A poor man could not be expected to give up his day's wages and to make such a sacrifice. Still, the case of these and other agricultural boroughs might fairly be considered in Committee.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he wished to explain that the case referred to by the hon. Baronet opposite appeared to be a first offence.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he was exceedingly obliged to the right hon. Baronet for
 743
 MR. HUNT  said, there was a general impression that the case referred to by his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Chatham (Sir Frederic Smith) of a child three years old, which had been whipped with a birch, was attributable to a misprint, and hoped that means would be taken to ascertain how the fact really stood. He was glad to find that in the gaol of the county which he represented the returns
 746
 MR. HUNT  said, as he had had the honour of moving the rejection of the Bill of the hon. Member in 1858, he hoped the House would allow him to state briefly why, though the measure was somewhat modified, he could not give his support to the second reading. Hon. Members opposite always looked upon any Bill for conferring the franchise as a very large measure, but he thought that the Bill, so far as it would take away the franchise, was a very large one. The existing law,
 767
 MR. PAULL  said, that if the only reason which induced the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth to draw a distinction between boroughs and counties was the supposition that in the former the voters lived so near the poll that there was no necessity for conveyances to bring them up, he could hardly be aware of the size of many of the Parliamentary boroughs. The area of the borough which returned the hon. and learned Gentleman himself was no more than about two square miles; but from a return presented to Parliament
 756
 MR. CLAY  said, it was perfectly well-known that the conveyance of voters was made a colourable pretext for bribery, not of the voter, but of the owners of the conveyances. He appealed to the metropolitan Members whether one of the best means of insuring success at an election in the metropolis was not the purchase of conveyances for bringing voters to the poll?
 Mr. BRISCOE  said, the opinion expressed by the hon. Member for Sheffield deserved the support of every friend of enlightened legislation. In the course of an experience of forty years as a magistrate he had never witnessed a case in which corporal punishment was expedient or necessary. Its infliction so degraded the recipient that any hope of subsequent amendment or reformation was out of the question.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he would recommend his hon. Friend to bring forward a Bill for the total abolition of whipping. Individually, he had no personal experience of the subject. It had been stated over and over again that prison discipline was more perfect in Ireland than anywhere, and in Ireland flogging was almost unknown. Something had been said about flogging in schools. Since last Session, a poor boy had been flogged to death by a schoolmaster, and he thought the House might fairly consider whether flogging should not be altogether abolished.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he was much pleased to find that silence had been broken and that the Corporation of London were disposed to oppose the Bill. In former years they had taken no steps in the matter. That change of policy he attributed to the feud which had recently sprung up between the Corporation and the Metropolitan Board of Works on the subject of the Sale of Gas Bill. The cause of the feud was an opinion given by the Attorney General that the Metropolitan Board of Works had the right to appoint inspectors of gas meters in the city. The House might imagine the commotion that opinion had created in the city. The Corporation obtained another opinion to the contrary, and a combat was now going on between these bodies for which the ratepayers would have to pay. Such was the result of establishing antagonistic bodies in the Metropolis, Still, though his hen. Friend the Member for London (Mr. Crawford) was hardly actuated by first-rate motives, he was glad that he had risen, and he expected him to conclude by moving that the Bill be referred to a Select Committee. [Mr. CRAWRORD: I said I would not.] True, his hon. Friend had said so that morning; but the previous day he learnt that it was his intention to Conclude with a Motion.[Mr. CRAWFPRD: Not at all.] Then he must have misunderstood the hon. Gentleman. He must say, however, that he thought it would be better if these two great bodies—the Metropolitan Board of Works and the Corporation of the City, would both pay rather more attention to the interests of a third body, whom he hoped the House would protect—he meant the inhabitants of the Metropolis. It was true that the Bill had passed that House last Session, but when it reached the House of Lords, they insisted on sending it to a Select Committee, and that was the reason it was not proceeded with. The Bill conferred extensive additional powers upon the Metropolitan Board of Works, and he could not therefore admit that the fact of its having passed last Session was a reason for its passing again. Moreover, it was certain that since the Bill passed through the House last year, a circumstance had taken place which altered the position of the whole question. In the last Session a Committee of that House had inquired into the local taxation of the Metropolis, and it was clear that if the House thought the recommendations of their Committees
 748 totidem verbis 749
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he rose to move the second reading of this Bill, with the intention of sending it to the same Select Committee as that to which the Government Bill on the subject would be referred; and he trusted that the deliberations of the Committee would result in the production of some good measure to effect the object in view.
 MR. VANCE  said, he doubted much
 757
 MR. P. A. TAYLOR  said, that as the youngest member of the House, he would beg its indulgence while he stated the reasons which led him to support this Bill. He had formed no exaggerated notion of the importance or scope of the Bill, but he regarded it as simply a branch of the great question of Parliamentary Reform— a question which, being fresh from the hustings, he might be permitted to say was as dear to the heart of Englishmen now as at any time during the last fifteen years. He should support the Bill as one sound in its principle, right in its tendency, and of so unobjectionable a character that until he had heard the speeches of hon. Gentlemen opposite he should have supposed it would meet with the concurrence of all parties. That House might be divided into those who were favourable to Parliamentary reform and those who opposed it. He would first address himself to those who thought that reform was essential, and he appealed to them not to reject the Bill because it did not go so far as they might wish, seeing that it extended the area from which the constituency had a right to select candidates. Any expense that was permitted by law soon became essential to the obtaining of a position so honourable as a seat in Parliament. It was something most disgraceful and anomalous that, when a man sought the honour of representing a constituency, the question should be, not whether he possessed
 760
 MR. COLLIER  said, that up to a recent period it was doubtful whether it was lawful to convey voters to the poll, and prudent candidates were therefore restrained from paying those expenses. In the well known case of "Cooper and Slade" it was, however, decided in the House of Lords that a promise by a candidate to pay a voter's expenses was, if he really voted for him, bribery, although no more than the legitimate expenses were defrayed. In 1858 an Act was passed to the effect that it should be lawful for a candidate to provide conveyances for voters, but that it should be unlawful to pay a voter the expense of conveying himself to the poll. So that if a candidate gave a voter a smiling to pay for a cab it was illegal; but if the candidate paid the cabman the shilling, he only did a lawful act. The inducement, however, to the voter was the same; the expense to the candidate was the same, and there was no
 761 "Meno salis placidi vultum fluctusque quietos "Ignorare jubes? mene huic confidere monstro?" 762 763
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he did not intend to offer any opposition to the Bill. It affected very materially the interests of his constituents, and to some of its provisions they entertained considerable objections, especially to the part giving to the Metropolitan Board of Works powers inconsistent with the privileges of the City of London. He was not disposed to give formal notice that the Bill should again be referred to a Select Committee, but he hoped that the House would have a fair opportunity of considering its provisions, and for that reason that the hon. Member would name a distant day for the Committee.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he thought that the hon. Gentleman opposite had acted prudently in assenting to the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary, and he would have acted more prudently had he done so without making a speech. He could assure the hon. Gentleman, from his personal experience, that what he stated with regard to children of the rich and poor was not true. He (Mr. Sotheron Estcourl) was the son of what was called a rich man, and he had certainly undergoue that castigation. He thought that the hon. Gentleman hardly did justice very often to his real character, which he believed was one of kindness and consideration; and he (Mr. Sotheron Estcourt) must assure him that observations which drew a distinction in regard to the proceedings in social life between rich and poor very often offended those whom he did not intend to offend, and presented a picture of our society which was not, according to his (Mr. Sotheron Estcourt's) experience, conformable to the true state of things.
 MR. COX  said, he hoped the hon. Member for Southwark would not persist in opposing the second reading, though he was inclined to think that the Bill ought to be sent to a Select Committee, not for what it contained, but for what it omitted. There were other omissions in the Bill besides that as to elections, and he wished to suggest some alterations in order to get rid of certain anomalies with respect to the division of wards and the number of vestrymen allotted to them, as well as to the mode of compound rating, which shut out many voters. He also thought there was no necessity for any qualification on the part of vestrymen beyond that of being a rated inhabitant, especially as the qualification of Members of Parliament had been abolished, and as the Members of the Metropolitan Board of Works themselves were not required to have any qualification. These points might all be considered in a Select Committee.
 MR. DEEDES  said, he thought that before the House was again called upon to legislate on the subject, the regulations which, as had been stated by the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, the inspectors were drawing up, should be laid before the House.
 MR. MITFORD  said, he felt that if the first clause of the Bill were passed into a law, we might as well shut up our prisons, as discipline could not be maintained. To the second clause he had not so strong an objection; but he considered that the surgeon who saw the boy stripped, was a better judge of the amount of punishment he could bear than the magistrate who merely saw him at a distance in the dock.
 MR. TITE  said, he rose to move the second reading of the Bill. It was precisely the same as one which had been passed by the House at the close of last Session too late to be proceeded with in the other House. A Bill similar in most respects was originally introduced in 1860, and referred to a Select Committee, which sat fifteen days. The delay thus occasioned prevented the measure from passing that Session, and last year it encountered considerable opposition because it was accompanied by another Bill, known as No. 2 Bill, which was not now before the House. After the very full discussion which the subject had undergone, he trusted there would be no objection to the second reading.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  explained, that those regulations would not apply to the subject of the Bill, the introduction of which he had recommended.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that it was impossible to lose sight of the fact, that the Bill was substantially the same as the Bill that passed through a Committee of the whole House last Session, was read a third time, and sent up to the House of Lords, but was not considered there owing to the late period at which the Bill went up. The only question of importance raised in the discussion was with regard to the constitution of the Metropolitan Board of Works, and the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets had given notice of his intention to propose certain clauses in Committee. Surely that was a subject which the House ought to entertain as a whole, and ought not to refer to a Select Committee. He (Sir George Grey) thought that the Metropolitan Board of Works had not been fairly treated with regard to the recommendation of the Committee of the last Session, as it teas assumed that the Committee had condemned the constitution of the Board, and questioned their competency to discharge their duties. What the Committee really
 752
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had
 742
 SIR GEORGE GREY:  Sir, I wish to state briefly the reasons which induce me to vote for the second reading of this Bill. I see no reason for objecting to it on the ground that it deals with only one part of that subject which came under the notice of the Committee, which has been so often referred to, and not with the whole. I think that my hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Collier) has done well in submitting this question by itself for the decision of the House. The Bill is in principle not a new one, because it is an amendment of a Bill which was passed on the recommendation of my right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Walpole) in 1858, the main provision of which related to the payment of the expenses of voters for counties and boroughs—prohibiting the giving of money to voters to pay their own expenses, but allowing the conveyance to be paid for. He thought that a useful and wholesome improvement of the law, and that it did tend to check the payment of money to the voter under colour of expenses. This subject was very fully considered by the Committee of which my right hon. Friend the Member for Kilmarnock was chairman and in the proceedings of which I took part; and the opinion which we came to, after full consideration and after hearing important evidence, was that it was desirable to continue the existing law as contained in the Act of 1858 with reference to counties, but, with respect to boroughs, that it would be proper that no expenses should be paid for the conveyance of voters. When that decision was arrived at thirteen Members were present, and twelve of them voted substantially for the resolution to this effect proposed by the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Sheffield. I should say there was a subsequent division as to whether certain boroughs, to which allusion has been made, should be excepted, and a majority of only one decided against excepting them. The reasons which influenced me in my support of the proposition were founded very much upon the abuses which have risen in for roughs from the practice of pay the conveyance of voters, and un absence of any necessity for cotinuing the that practice. The difference between, his this case of counties and boroughs is non-resi-in counties the law recognises
 765 766
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he hoped that no opposition would be made to the second reading of the Bill. It was true the Committee recommended that the Metropolitan Board should be directly elected instead of being sifted through the vestries, and he was himself anxious that the basis of the Board should be extended, but the best machinery for doing that could be discussed when the Bill went into Committee. With regard to metropolitan improvements, he would bring up a clause empowering particular localities to tax themselves for improvements within those
 750
 MR. KNIGHTLEY  said, that the hon. Members who sat on the Opposition benches had been more than once asked why they opposed a measure the provisions of which were included in the Earl of Derby's Reform Bill. For himself, as an independent Member, he begged to repudiate the smallest responsibility for that Reform Bill. Hon. Members did net even have the opportunity of voting for the second reading of that Bill, because Earl Russell interposed with what had been termed his "cunning and craftily devised Resolution." But, although the Conservative party were not responsible for this measure, it should be remembered that the Earl of Derby's Bill had a corrective for the provision which the hon. and learned Gentleman had engrafted in his measure, in a clause permitting voting by voting-papers. If the hon. and learned Gentleman would combine the two in this Bill, he would give it his cordial support. He had stood two or three contests, and, not being a rich man, it was no pleasure to him to pay £2,000 or £3,000 for his election. But, although he should like to be spared this expense, he did not wish to be the representative of those only who had a strong pair of legs, but desired to represent equally the old, the sick, and the infirm among his constituents. Why was it that no county Member had been unseated on the ground of bribery? It was because in counties there were many polling places, and the railways were continually bringing in returns which might at any moment alter the relative position of the candidates; therefore, towards the close of the day, when votes became valuable, persons did not wish to throw away their money in bribery at the risk of losing their seats. Now, the same uncertainty which was so important an element in county elections would, he believed, be produced in like manner by means of voting papers. As the Bill embodied a very dangerous principle, without any counter-
 764
 SIR ROBERT CLIFTON  said, it occurred to him that there was a class of voters whose case had not been considered by either of the hon. Gentlemen who had addressed the House. He alluded to voters who could not walk ten yards. He should like to know how poor voters of that description were to get to the poll, if the Bill passed? He was put to great expense for carriages at his election; and he knew of nothing that would afford him greater pleasure than to see all election expenses done away with, and Members returned free of cost, but he did not think that ought to be brought about by disenfranchising any class of voters. There were from 800 to 1,000 burgesses in the borough he had the honour to represent. Many of them were over 70; and a number of them 80, 85, and some as old as 90 years. Indeed, he believed the excitement of the last election had killed one or two of them. His opinion was that private arrangements would be made for the hire of conveyances, in spite of the Bill; and that the measure would only lead to an increase of those malpractices which were already complained of as taking place at some elections.
 MR. CAVE  said: Sir, I feel bound to object to this measure. Its provisions are of so penal a nature, I may say, as regards my own and similar constituencies, practically disfranchising as it does, without a cause, large numbers who have hitherto freely and fairly exercised the right of returning Members to Parliament, that I should not be doing my duty did I not come forward as prominently as possible to oppose it. I fully admit the evils and abuses which this Bill is intended to meet. I am willing to allow that the man who refuses to walk to a polling-booth half as far as he walks every day to his work or his dinner is not worthy of the consideration of this House. I should be quite willing that the cabmen's saturnalia in Marylebone and Finsbury should come to an end. But it seems to me that the hon. and learned Member, in his zeal against this abuse, would punish the innocent with the guilty; that he confounds towns with boroughs. What may be perfectly right and just with regard to a town of small area, where every man may, by a little exertion, record his vote—during his dinner-hour, for instance—without expense or loss of time, tells very differently in the case of a large rural borough, where many voters live half a day's journey from the poll, to which it is physically impossible for them to go without assistance. Many hon. Members will, I am sure, bear me out in this; and as my own borough is a remarkable case in point, I will give a few particulars for the purpose of illustrating my position. The borough of New Shore-ham, which is co-extensive with that division of Sussex called the Rape of Bramber, is 24 miles long in the longest, and
 753 754 Principiis obsta animus 755
 MR. LAWSON  said, he would suggest that the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Cave) should propose in Committee to omit the four boroughs mentioned by him from the provisions of the Bill, or bring up a clause providing for the establishment of additional polling places. He thought the House was indebted to the hon. Member for Plymouth for bringing forward the measure. Whenever a similar measure had been formerly introduced, it was always put off on some plea or another. At one time it was said that there was a large and comprehensive measure of reform looming in the distance. At another time it was said that a Corrupt Practices at Election Prevention Bill was about to be introduced in an amended form; while, at another time, it was urged that the question ought to be referred to a Select Committee up-stairs. The noble Lord at the head of the Government had told them that they "were not to expect a large and comprehensive measure of reform" during that Session, and therefore they need not now wait on that account. A Bill to Amend the Act for Preventing Corrupt Practices at Elections had, indeed, been promised by the Home Secretary; but the right hon. Gentleman seemed to be rather tardy in his Motions, and he did not see why they should wait for that measure. They had received the Report of a Select Committee, and one of its most important recommendations was the adoption of the plan proposed by his hon. and learned Friend. The experience of the last few years showed them that it was useless to wait for a large and comprehensive measure of reform, and that they ought to take what was offered to
 758
 MR. COWPER : Judging, Sir, from the present state of the works at Westminster Bridge, I think there is every reason to hope that it will be open for public use early in the month of May. The houses on the south side of Bridge Street are pulled down as they come into the possession of the Office of Works. I am not, however, able to state any precise date at which the whole of that number of houses will be in our possession. With reference to the proposal of the Member that carriages shall be allowed to enter New Palace Yard from the bridge, I can only state, that when the ground has been levelled which was previously occupied by the houses near the Clock Tower, there will be no difficulty I apprehend, as regards the ground, in admitting carriages. Whether it would be convenient to do so, as regards the approaches to the Houses of Parliament, is a matter on which I should be anxious to consult you, Mr. Speaker, before giving any answer.
 MR. COWPER : The leases are for various terms— some for two years, some for a longer period. I am anxious, in deciding on the mode of dealing with the tenants, to consider both economy and utility. I am not at present aware to what use the ground on which the houses stand will be put, and therefore I should not be inclined to give any unnecessarily high price for the land. But negotiations are going forward both with regard to the freehold and also the interests of tenants in the houses.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he wished to know whether it is intended to proceed with the Bill this evening.
 MR. CARD WELL : Sir, I think the matter stands thus—the Motion to be made on the 25th of March is, that on a future day the House will resolve itself into Committee; before that future day arrives, the right hon. Gentleman has stated that he will lay his Resolutions on the table of the House.
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, the question was most important, and one in which the House took the greatest interest. He feared that the course which had been taken in the House would have
 807
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : Sir, I may perhaps be allowed to explain that of the two alternatives stated by the right hon. Gentleman the Government are quite ready to accept the first. If hon. Members do not understand that which appears to me to be very clear, perhaps the right hon. Gentleman will be good enough to repeat his proposals.
 MR. HENLEY : Sir, taking the  variorum 808 pro formâ
 MR. LINDSAY  said, that the Vote under consideration was increasing at a very rapid rate; it was upwards of £170,000, and it had increased by £36,000 within the last few years. It was proposed that five new appointments should be made. There was to be a librarian at £150 a year, there was to be an acting constructor at £800, there was to be a Deputy Accountant General at £900, a new chief clerk in the storekeeper's department at £850, and an officer and secretary to con-
 809 employés 810
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he thought there was great force in the hon. Member's observations. He hoped that a satisfactory explanation would be given for the appointment of an Acting Constructor. They were about to substitute an iron fleet for a wooden one, and as many of the large iron vessels would be constructed in private yards he did not understand why another officer in the Controlling Department was needed, unless, indeed, that officer was intimately acquainted with the construction of iron ships. With regard to the item for transports, the affair must be a sham if two great Departments were excluded from the arrangement. He thought that the item had better be deferred until the Indian and Colonial Departments consented to form part of the Transport Board. With regard to the Deputy Accountant General, he should not object to the appointment, if it were made a temporary one, only to endure while the accounts were being brought into a proper state, and to cease when that result was attained,
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : Sir, I rose at the same time as the noble Lord to state the view of the Government upon this subject, which seems to me to have given rise to an unnecessary amount of debate. I admit the fairness of the course proposed by the right hon. Gentleman, and the fairness of spirit in which the House has met the question, and I will at once state that the Government are ready to accept the first alternative.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, that his objections to the appointment of an acting constructor had not been removed by what had fallen from the noble Lord. What, he would ask, would the chief constructor and constructor have to do when this acting constructor was appointed? In every dockyard there was a master shipwright, receiving a salary of £600, and two assistants, receiving salaries of £400 per annum; therefore there was no want of hands to conduct the works. If they had too many heads, there would be divided responsibility, and when anything was wrong, they would be unable to place their finger on the person who bad committed the error. He should press his amendment to deduct £2,550 from the Vote. With respect to the remarks of the hon. Member for Birkenhead (Mr. Laird), he would observe that it was stated that the building of ships at Deptford cost £37 a ton. No one knew better than the hon. Member that the hull of a ship under 1,000 tons would not cost one-half the sum of £37 per ton.
 MR. CORRY  said, that, in explanation of the statement of the Royal Commission as to the cost of constructing ships at Deptford, he might observe that a great many of the ships built there had been built originally as sailing vessels, and afterwards converted into screw ships. Besides, the expense of repairing a 36-gun frigate had been included in the charges for building at Deptford.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, it was scarcely possible to overrate the services rendered by the shipping masters at the various ports in the formation of the Royal Naval Reserve. He trusted the Admiralty would deal with them liberally, and consider whether they might not receive some distinguishing badge or honorary rank.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he thought that "Paymasters of the Royal Naval Reserve" would have been a better title. He wished to know whether the £180 went to the deputy registrars, or was it to be divided among their clerks?
 MR. CORRY  observed, that there was an increase of 150 men in the number of the coast-guard on land service, though he should have thought that since the establishment of the Naval Reserve the importance of the coast-guard would have diminished.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, they had given up building wooden ships, except those of small size. The pay of master shipwrights was £650 per annum, and of master smiths £250 per annum. The increase of iron ships would throw extra work upon the master smiths, and he sug-
 823
 MR. LINDSAY  said, that if the accounts of the expenditure of the navy were to be presented in detail they ought to show the whole cost of each ship. Was anything, for instance, taken into consideration for depreciation, or insurance, or losses? He could not but complain of the unsatisfactory and confused manner in which the accounts were presented to the House. He should like also to know whether there was any alteration made in the system of task and job-work.
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, he wished to ask what steps had been taken by the Admiralty to remedy the evils complained of by the chief engineer of Chatham Dockyard before the Dockyard Inquiry; Committee, respecting the deteriorated quality of copper obtained for copper sheathing in the navy? He also desired to be informed whether there was any intention on the part of the Admiralty to manufacture their own plates in any of
 826
 MR. CORRY  said, he had examined the Report of the Commissioners as to the cost of building ships at Pembroke Dockyard,
 834
 MR. LINDSAY  said, that he could state from his own experience that he had found no difficulty in cleaning the bottoms of iron ships in any of the chief ports of the world. As to durability, there was no comparison between iron and wooden vessels. He was just opening out an iron vessel which had been built for ten years, and the iron was as good as on the day when the ship was built. He need hardly say it would not have been so with a wooden vessel. He would probably have found the dry rot in her, and been only too glad to close her up again and sell her as soon as possible. There was one item in the Vote upon which he should certainly take the opinion of the Committee. The Vote for timber upon an average was, before last year, about £400,000. Last year £940,000 was voted, upon the ground that it was wanted to replenish the stock of timber. This year, although they had given up building wooden line-of-battle ships, the amount asked for was £160,000 above the average. He should move to reduce the Vote by £100,000. He also wished to ask whether one firm continued to enjoy the monopoly of supplying anchors and chains to the navy? There were surely more firms than one in the country whose manufacture could be depended upon, and a little competition might produce economy without impairing efficiency. He moved to reduce the Vote by £100,000.
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, he desired to ask for information as to the probable cost of the three vessels ordered during the last year. Having himself last Session stated the cost of the large iron-cased ships at half a million sterling apiece, he had been told that he had alarmed the country, and that the actual cost would only be £300,000. Now the  Warrior
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he wished to know whether the items in the Vote for new machinery in several of the yards were intended as the commencement of plant for the building of iron ships? He had opposed the Vote last year for iron shipbuilding at Chatham. It was, he believed, a great mistake.
 MR. CORRY  observed, that it was stated in the House a few nights since that the water on Portsmouth Bar was so shallow that large ships could not enter the harbour, and it had been even suggested that in consequence of this Portsmouth ought to be abandoned as our first naval arsenal. In the course of the last two years, how-
 837 838
 MR. CORRY  said, he had received reliable information that the  Warrior fortiori
 MR. LINDSAY  denied, that the owners of a merchant vessel would suffer if the ship were lost under the circumstances supposed by the hon. Member for Norfolk. He was convinced that in the last resort the Government would take care that they should not be losers. With regard to the alleged expediency of constructing additional transports, he might refer to the evidence given by Sir Alexander Milne, one of the ablest public servants of the Admiralty, who showed conclusively that hired merchant vessels cost exactly half as much as Government troop-ships. He therefore thought it was sound policy to keep as many troop-ships as would be required in time of peace, and in time of war to depend on the merchant service. These Estimates had been got through with a speed and at a period of the Session unparalleled in his experience. Knowing the many burdens to which the country was exposed, he could not bring himself to believe that voting away £12,000,000 in two nights was a course likely to commend itself to general approbation.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : Sir, I rise to move for leave to bring in a Bill of which I have given notice. This Bill is purely of a technical nature, but it is right that I should explain to the House the precise effect which I wish it to have. The House may not be aware of the exact form now adopted with respect to the commissions of military officers. In every case—whether it be that of a first commission or that of the promotion of an officer—a "submission" is made by the Commander-in-Chief to the Queen. He states the name of the officer, together with the rank in the army which it is proposed the officer should hold. If the Queen approves it, Her Majesty signs her name at the top of the submission paper, and also signs a direction at the bottom of the paper to the Secretary of State to prepare a commission according to the name and the degree stated in the body of the document, and the latter is then returned to the Commander-in-Chief. It is sent by him to the War Office, and then it becomes the duty of the Secretary of State to prepare a commission according to the directions contained in the paper. This commission runs in the name of the Queen—that the Queen grants certain rank in the army, and certain powers to the officer named in the document. When made out, the commission is sent by the Secretary of State to Her Majesty. Her Majesty writes her name at the top of the document. It is countersigned by the Secretary of State, and then it is complete. The House will see, therefore, that in order to enable an officer to obtain a commission in the army it is necessary
 842
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that the Royal prerogative of the sign manual was exercised "as had been the custom." If that custom were departed from, questions might arise as to the legality of the sign manual. It was therefore prudent and constitutional to make the alteration by an Act of Parliament.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the law relating to copyright in works of fine art. The law on that subject was at present in a very imperfect and anomalous condition. Copyright had been created in books and other subjects. With respect to the fine arts, two series of Acts had been passed, giving a copyright of a limited and special nature. In 1735 an Act was passed at the instance of the celebrated Hogarth, giving a copyright in prints and engravings, but awarding no protection to the pictures from which they were taken. In the present reign that protection was extended to lithographs. Another series of Acts gave copyright to sculp-
 844 845
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that protection was at present afforded by law for fourteen years at all events, and if the author were living, for a further similar period, making altogether twenty-eight years after the first production or publication to works of sculpture, casts, and models. The natives of countries which have treaties of international copyright with England enjoyed the benefit of that protection.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  remarked, that he also thought increased efficiency would be the result of the Vote, and he should therefore support it. He approved of the present form of presenting the estimates, as tending to a more watchful supervision of naval works.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that the point had been so fully discussed on a recent occasion that he had not thought it necessary to refer to it. The appointments which the sum of £2,000 was intended to cover had been made in consequence of proceedings before the Transport Committee of last year. The naval officer and his secretary were intended to form the nucleus of a Transport Board, which at present was to manage the transport of troops to all our
 818
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that the officer to be appointed was Mr. Abethell, one of the master shipwrights in the dockyards.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he was glad to hear the voice of the hon. Member for Birkenhead, and hoped he would often give them the benefit of his knowledge and experience in naval matters. If his hon. friend the Member for Sunderland (Mr. Lindsay) had been in his place on Monday, he would have heard him (Lord Clarence Paget) distinctly state what was going on in the dockyards as to the rectification of the accounts. He would not trouble the Committee with a repetition of that statement; but he might say generally, that the Accountant General expressed his expectation of being able to render the general accounts as perfect as the personal accounts of the seamen. His hon. Friend said he disapproved of the deputy Accountant General. He (Lord Clarence Paget) could assure his hon. Friend that the Accountant General could not do the work that was assigned to him. No amount of industry would enable a man to get through it. It was simply impossible, owing to the great increase in the navy which had taken place of late years. The Accountant General must under the new system of accounts visit the dockyards for the purpose of examining and checking the accounts; but how was he to do that and attend to his daily business at Somerset House as well? An additional officer was imperatively required, more especially when all desired to see more correct and detailed accounts of everything connected with naval expenditure. So with respect to the appointment of an acting constructor. The Admiralty had over and over again been found fault with because the Controller of the Navy sat in his office at Whitehall and did not inspect the dockyards; but the simple answer was that he could not visit the dockyards unless he could leave an officer behind him at Whitehall to carry on the daily business there. It had been said that they were building ships by contract, but the fact that the work was being done in private yards, was an additional reason why it should be properly inspected and checked by a Government officer. The appointment of au additional first-class
 815
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that it was intended to reduce the number of permanent men in the dockyards to the extent laid down in an Order in Council in
 825
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that
 829 830 831 Warrior Valiant formâ pauperis Valiant 832
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, the defect of the present system of expense accounts was that large sums were attributed in them to one service which, in truth, belonged to another. For instance, in the account items were put down under the head of "Docks," cranes, and various matters connected with the dockyard, which ought to be attributed to the ship which was being built. The hon. Baronet, however, was aware that it was those very defects which the Admiralty were in process of remedying, and for the future to every individual ship would be credited under the new system every particular item which belonged to it. Thus, by a system of double entry, the exact cost of each ship would be shown. By that time next year the returns probably would show accurately the exact cost of every one of Her Majesty's ships.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  remarked, that he could only say that the Malta station was of great importance in respect to the Mediterranean service, and, besides being a great store and victualling depot, and therefore requiring a smaller proportion of artificers, large works were going on there. Malta, therefore, could not be considered, as regards officers and men, in the same light as the home dockyards.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that he was a most zealous and active officer.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  replied, that the seamen of the Channel Islands were as much interested in the reserve as the seamen in the home ports. Several of them had been already enrolled.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, the fees of the shipping masters were £2,000.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  stated, that £180 was the highest amount that any of the registrars had received. Of course, certain clerks were to be paid, but that was to be done before, and the £180 was a substantial addition to the income of the registrars. As to the number out of the 10,000 reserves that might be immediately available, their present position was this:—According to the la test returns in last December, the number of reserves on long voyages was 669, on
 822
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he was happy to inform his hon. Friend the Member for Greenwich (Alderman Salomons) that they had made a commencement in granting appointments to officers of the Naval Reserve, and that the first commission had been conferred on Mr. Judkins, the officer who with so much ability had commanded the steamer that carried our troops up the St. Lawrence. Mr. Judkins had passed the age for active service, but he had been made an honorary lieutenant, to mark the sense which the Government entertained of his services. The item of £5,000 for lieutenants and sub-lieutenants of the Naval Reserve was to reimburse them for travelling expenses, board, and so on, when they were away from their vessels undergoing instruction —the lieutenants to receive 10 s s 821
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he did not think that it would be easy to make an index of the charts of all the surveys of the world; but if the hon. Gentleman would move for an index of all the published charts, there probably would be no objection raised to the Motion. As to the Astronomer Royal, he was an excellent officer, and he might add that that year the Admiralty had somewhat improved the position of some of his assistants.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that in the second section of the Vote he had taken a sum for making experiments upon iron plates. With regard to the modern processes for economizing fuel in steam-vessels, the Admiralty were fully sensible of the importance of those improvements, and were submitting them to a practical test on board of some of their vessels.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he could not give the exact cost of the vessels. He must defer any precise statement
 836
 Lord JOHN MANNERS : Sir, I wish I could agree with the hon. Baronet, that the point is cleared up. Though my right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge has stated, in the most clear and distinct terms, his readiness to adopt either of the alternatives he has proposed to the House, up to this moment the Government have not replied to his offer, by stating that they will adopt either the one or the other. I hope some Member of the Government will state whether the House is to be allowed to go into Committee of the whole House on the question of education or not.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that he rose to ask the question of which he had given notice. If hon. Members were to judge from the letters, pamphlets, and other communications which had poured in upon them from all quarters, no topic had, for some time past, excited so much attention as the Revised Code of Education. He therefore wished to elicit from the Government the course which they intended to pursue on this important question. Some three years ago, to pacify the discontent then existing, a Commission on the subject of education was issued, and the Government so far acquiesced in its Report condemning the present system, as to propose a new one. That new plan had been brought forward at the close of last Session, but after six months' consideration the Government were so dissatisfied with their own former conclusions that at the beginning of the present Session they introduced another scheme. It might, therefore, be fairly admitted that the subject was one of the greatest difficulty and surrounded with the gravest doubt. The Government, however, announced that their latest proposition was intended to be a permanent arrangement, in substitution for the existing system, which they had regarded as only temporary in its character; and they also assumed an attitude towards the House which he ventured to think was most inconvenient. They did not propose, on their own part, to invite the House to consider the question itself except according to the usual and strictly formal manner of asking the House to vote the funds necessary to carry out the design. To any hon. Member who might desire to suggest any change in the existing system such a course was most unsatisfactory, because in Committee of Supply the only question which could be put from the Chair was "Aye" or "No" as to the granting of the money. It would not be competent to propose a resolution defining the exact mode in which the supply ought to be expended; the House would be asked either to endorse the proposition of the Government, or to refuse the supplies necessary to carry out their educational plan. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Walpole) had undertaken the difficult task and grave responsibility
 798 799
 MR. AYRTON , said, that he would ask the Government, Whether they were prepared to assent to the course proposed by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge—namely, that the House should resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House to consider the best mode of distributing the Parliamentary grants for education administered by the Privy Council? If they did not wish to give an answer with reference to the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman, then he would ask them in more general terms what plan they intended to propose to the House? An assurance from the Government on that point would relieve hon. Members from the embarrassment in which they were at present placed. He had given notice of his intention to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge, whether he would immediately lay on the table the resolutions which he intended to move in Committee; but he could not expect the right hon. Gentleman to answer that question till he knew what course the Government intended to adopt. Indeed, he should deprecate any Resolutions being laid on the table until they knew whether the House was to go into Committee. Such a course would be in the last degree unfair; for, if
 800
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  remarked, that while the sum asked for the purposes of the department in 1852 was £134,000, it had amounted in 1858–9 to £140,000, to which latter sum it had only reached during the Crimean war. In the Estimates before them there was a further increase of more than £30,000. The causes of the great increase under that head within the last five years he attributed in a great measure to the number of clerks, especially temporary clerks, employed in the department. That observation applied to every department of the Admiralty. He hoped that the Government would state that it was their intention to deal with the question. There were 333 persons upon the establishment for the present year, while in 1858 they amounted only to 270. Ten years ago there were only 235. Now, taking into account the temporary clerks, they had a force of 452 persons. There were also probationary clerks, and he should like to know what were the rules in accordance with which the Members of that particular class were appointed—whether by nomination and competition, and whether, when persons were nominated, they came on in their turn? For his own part, he regretted that a larger reduction in the Vote had not been proposed by the hon. Member for Sunderland.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he wished to call attention to the excess of expenditure in past years over the sums voted under this head. In 1859 they voted £61,000, and £68,000 were expended; in 1860 they voted £64,000, and £73,000 were expended. Would there be any objection to a return giving a list or index of the charts published by the hydrographical department during the last ten years?
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, it would be useful to know what progress was made in the coast surveys. The Astronomer Royal, one of the most able mathematicians and astronomers in England or the world, had never had an increase of his pay. It was only £1,000 a year; and for a man of his science and attainments an augmentation was desirable.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he desired to know whether any alteration had been made in the rates of payment for the officers of the Naval Reserve?
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he wished to call attention to the position of the hand-sawyers in the dockyards, who, for the last thirteen years, had been at job and task work. In the mean while the wages of other mechanics, who were paid by the day, had increased 3 d d d
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  expressed his full concurrence in the observations made relative to the master smiths, but he did not think it advisable that the salaries of the master shipwrights should be reduced.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he wished to know whether the timber was charged in the returns at cost price, or whether any addition was made to the expense of the ship on account of the length of time it had been in the yard?
 MR. DISRAELI : I certainly think, Sir, that a misconception prevails on this point, although it appears to me exceedingly strange that it should have arisen. The right hon. Gentleman who has just spoken says, it would be very convenient, before we go into Committee, that we should be in possession of the Resolutions about to be moved by my right hon. Friend or any other hon. Gentleman. Well, we all agree that it would be very convenient, if we go into Committee on the general question of education, that we should be in possession of these Resolutions of my right hon. Friend. But the question that does not appear to be settled is, whether we are to go into Committee? If the right hon. Gentleman will tell us that it is not the intention of the Government to oppose the original Motion of my right hon. Friend, and that we shall have the great advantage of considering this important question in Committee of the whole House, I will undertake to say that my right hon. Friend will lay his Resolutions on the table in ample time, and we shall expect the same from any other hon. Member who may intend to bring forward a Motion on the subject. But I did not collect from the right hon. Gentleman the Vice President of the Education Committee, nor from the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department, that the Government are prepared to grant the Committee; and unless they are so prepared, their observations are not founded on any solid basis. It is our opinion, and it is an opinion by no means limited to this side of the House, that it is absurd to make a party question of the most convenient mode of considering the complicated question of popular education in a Committee of the whole House. I think the feeling is general that it would be highly convenient to consider the question in Committee of the whole House. If it is to be considered in Committee, all that Gentlemen who have Resolutions to propose have to do is to lay them on the table in ample time for consideration. If the Government are
 805
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he was not disposed to admit the correctness of the statement of facts implied in the question of the hon. Member. A Warrant was some time since issued, putting the Medical Officers of both services on as nearly the same footing as to rank and social standing as possible. With regard to Pay and Pensions, they were totally different in the Queen's service and in the Indian Service. To put them on the same footing would be in some cases little advantage, and in others to the disadvantage of the Indian Service. Arrangements were in progress for assimilating the two services in this respect, but it was impossible at present to proceed further, as the Government was waiting for information which they expected from India.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH : Sir, I wish it to be understood whether it is the first or the second alternative that the Government propose to accept. I understand the notice is to be left as it stands. Is that so? I ask the Government to tell us, in distinct terms, what is the plan they accept, No. l or No. 2.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, that he understood that there was a system of measurement in operation under which, if a man did not do an amount of work reaching a certain standard, he was paid less than the average wages; while if he did an amount beyond the standard, he was not paid more than his regular earnings.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, he wished to inquire whether any commissions had as yet been issued to the officers of the mercantile marine who had joined the Naval Reserve?
 MR. CARDWELL : There can be no objection to the first Motion, that the House will on a future day resolve itself into Committee, because there will be an opportunity on that future day of debating the question whether the House will go into Committee or not. As I understand my right hon. Friend, he proposes that a subsequent day shall be named for the express purpose of enabling him to lay his Resolutions on the table, and giving the House and the Government an opportunity of considering them. That being so, the first Motion will be merely formal, and there will be no objection to its being made.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he feared that some of the opponents of the Vote conceived retrenchment and economy to be convertible terms, but they were not so in all cases. If the people knew what an amount of money had been wasted under the name of economy, they would be perfectly startled. Nothing was so productive of injury as being short-handed. The real ground in the present discussion was that of responsibility, the main difficulty in dealing with anything connected with the Admiralty being to determine with whom the responsibility lay. But that was the fault of the constitution of the department, not of those who at present filled its offices; and until the House was ready to remedy the root of the evil—the constitution of the Board—they were bound to leave the decision of all these details of expenditure to the Board as it at present existed. He should for these reasons give his support to the Vote.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he had always heard that the deteriorated quality of modern copper was to be attributed to its admixture with foreign ore. His noble Friend would acquit him in his remarks of all desire to use captious language, or introduce party feeling. It was really for the purpose of obtaining information that he wished to refer to some particular items in the Vote. One of the most important questions of the day was the respective merits of the various descriptions of iron plates for sheathing vessels; in fact, the naval supremacy of this country was to some extent dependent on the goodness of those plates. He had heard within the last few days rumours in certain influential quarters which, if they had any foundation, ought to be brought to the notice of the Admiralty; but which, if they were not correct, ought to receive an authoritative contradiction from the Minister in his place in Parliament. He had heard that all the experiments tried went to prove that hammered plates were vastly superior to rolled plates; that the experiments tried on the target constructed like the side of the  Warrior Royal Oak Achilles Black Prince 827 Valiant, the Black Prince, the Defence Resistance
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he doubted very much whether there existed on many foreign stations those facilities for cleaning iron ships which his hon. Friend the Member for Sunderland imagined. His hon. Friend had said that an iron vessel was much more durable than a wooden one, but that maxim was not of universal application. If an iron vessel went ashore upon a sandbank, she would hang on there a long time; but if she went upon a stony or rocky shore, she would go to pieces like brown paper. Perhaps the noble Lord would tell them whether it was true, as reported recently, a gunboat had run into the bows of a line-of-battle ship—the Defence, he believed—and stove in a plate. He ventured to say that no gunboat would ever have gone through the bows of one of the old line-of-battle ships. He was very glad to hear that the Admiralty had resolved on exacting for the future the full amount of the penalties from defaulting contractors. He believed that that
 835
 MR. BENTINCK  asked, whether any Vote would be proposed for facilitating the coaling of men-of-war at Plymouth Sound?
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he would again take occasion to express his belief that the possession of a larger number of troop-ships would conduce to the benefit of the public service, and would be productive of true economy. Cases would likewise occur where, with hired transport ships, very awkward consequences might ensue; the captain of a merchant vessel might object to land troops under fire, alleging that by so doing he would peril his insurance.
 MR. SPEAKER : I must point out to the hon. and learned Member that to invite a discussion on the course, to be pursued with reference to a Motion for which a day has, been fixed will be exceeding the bounds of order.
 MR HENNESSY  said, the House ought now to have some positive declaration of the intention of the Government.
 MR. HENNESSY  asked, how it happened that the power of attaching the Royal sign manual did not already exist? He believed that the House was trenching on the royal prerogative in proposing to pass a Bill to give certain powers to the Queen in Council; and he believed that the Queen had full powers at present to delegate her sign manual.
 MR. LAIRD  said, he was rather surprised, looking at the increased size of the ships now building, and the very inadequate number of graving docks, that a larger sum was not taken to remedy the existing state of things. There was scarcely any graving dock that could take those vessels in. At Portsmouth there was only one, and he wished to know what steps were to be taken to provide the requisite accommodation.
 MR. LAIRD  said, it appeared to him a question, after the discussion that took place on a former evening, whether it was desirable to go on building large ships of wood and iron combined. He doubted, also, whether they ought to carry out the "plan entertained of converting several wooden-built ships into iron-plated vessels without a previous experiment to test their efficiency when so converted. The addi-
 828
 MR. LAIRD  said, the noble Lord would do well to make some arrangement by which the crews of steamers, boatmen, lightermen, and others of that class, might be drilled so as to be available for the defence of their several ports. If a large number of men who were unwilling to enter for foreign service joined together for the defence of the ports, a greater number of others would become free for foreign service, and this would add very greatly to our naval resources.
 MR. LAIRD  said, he should support the Vote. The officers to whom it was proposed to give assistance had been much overworked for many years, and he could state from personal experience and observation that they were gentlemen of the highest character and ability. He could not see how the appointment of a deputy Accountant General could be objected to by hon. Gentlemen opposite. They wanted, in future, an accurate and detailed account of the cost of each ship, including, of course, a statement of the wages paid and the prices of materials, and also a proportionate share of the expenses of each dockyard. Such an account could be obtained, but it must double the number of clerks and lead to a large increase in the business of the Accountant General, as well as necessitate a thorough revision of his system. Hon. Gentlemen opposite were very fond of contrasting the cost of ships built under contract with that of vessels constructed in the Government
 814
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Sir, I think that the confusion of which the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) complained has been created by his own mode of putting the question. 801
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he must remind the House that a pledge had been given by the Home Secretary the previous evening that the Bill would not be proceeded with.
 MR. R. HODGSON  said, he wished to ask the Secretary for the Admiralty whether any scale of remuneration for shipping masters had been settled?
 MR. R. W. DUFF  said, that practical experience enabled him to corroborate what had fallen from the noble Lord. Iron boats were good for home, but certainly not for foreign service. He had been on the South American station for five years, and during that time there were two iron gunboats attached to the squadron. One of them, the  Harpy Trident
 MR. LOWE : I fear, Sir, that some misunderstanding prevails in the House on this subject. If we go into Committee of the whole House, I apprehend there is no distinction between an open Committee and a close Committee. When we are once there, it is competent for any hon. Member to move any Resolution he may think proper. Therefore, if the right hon. Gentleman gives notice of his Resolutions, any other hon. Gentleman would not be precluded from moving any other Resolutions he might think desirable. The Government have not the least wish to avoid discussion, and, for my own part, I do not
 804
 MR. WHITBREAD  said, there were two great sources of expenditure—wages
 817
 MR. WHITBREAD  observed, that the system was known as the "check-day pay," and answered very well. It simply insured a fair day's work for a fair day's pay.
 MR. WHITBREAD  said, he would admit that the accounts, as they then stood, did not show the whole debtor and creditor account; but an improved system was in operation, and he trusted that next year the fullest details of the cost of every ship would be given. There was no task I or job-work then going on in the dock-yards,
 MR. WHITBREAD  said, the reason of the increase was to provide machinery at five of the yards for bending iron plates to the requisite form for building, the plates themselves being manufactured outside the yards in question.
 MR. WHITBREAD  said, there bad been an absolute gain all over the bar at Portsmouth of a good four feet. He believed it was nearer five feet But the Admiralty wished to wait and see whether the depth would be maintained, or whether the excavation or bar would fill up, before they expended any more money at Portsmouth. By the last soundings it appeared that there had been a little filling up on the western side, but the bar had extended itself a little to the eastward, and there was no loss at present. Further soundings would be taken in April, and if they were satisfactory, the Admiralty would deepen the entrance further with the money which he hoped the Committee would rote in the Estimate. Before doing anything to extend the establishments at Portsmouth, they ought to be certain that the entrance would be efficiently maintained; and the Committee must remember, that if they made a large basin at the end of the dockyard, it would detract to some extent from the tidal water, and lessen the scour out of the harbour. The hon. Gentleman had rather understated the accommodation which they would have in 1864. They were making a dock at Portsmouth known as the North Inlet Dock, and they were lengthening No. 8 Dock at Portsmouth. At the end of the present year one dock at Devonport would be finished, and they were extending and deepening the lock into the basin at Key-ham, and also lengthening one of the docks at Keyham; so that by 1864 there would be five docks capable of containing vessels of the largest size, those at Key-ham and Devonport receiving them at any high water on any day in the year. With regard to the works at Chatham, for the next year or two they would consist mainly of excavations and piling, for which convict labour was admirably adapted, and therefore the amount of money voted would not represent the full amount of progress which would be made. As to the question put by the hon. Member for Norfolk with respect to the coaling, it was a most important matter, and would not be lost sight of. One of the best plans seemed to be to coal from barges on either
 839
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, The question put to me by the hon. Gentleman renders it necessary for me to explain the reasons which induced me to give notice of the Motion in the form in which it now stands. In the first place, I believe I have adopted the form which this House has generally, if not universally, considered to be the best in reference to questions of this kind. In the second place, I put it in that form in order that the House might see that I did not wish to go into Committee on any specific plan of my own, but in such a way that every hon. Member might have an opportunity of putting forward his views on the subject. I think that, when the right hon. Gentleman the Vice President of the Committee of Council submitted his Revised Code, I suggested that it would he better to go at once into Committee of the whole House, in order that we might have an opportunity of considering this complicated matter in detail, and in order that such explanations might be given and such amendments adopted as the House in Committee might deem desirable. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department suggested that there were two courses open to us; the one was to submit the Motions which should be submitted on the new Code when the Estimate was moved for, and the other to move an address to the Crown on the subject, embodying in that address the alterations that I thought should be made in the code. Now, as to the first of these courses, I should have been precluded, and the House would have been precluded, from considering in detail a most complicated matter. As to the other course,
 802 803
 MR. WALPOLE : Will the right hon. Gentleman permit me to explain? My Motion is, that the House should go into Committee on a future day, in order that there may be an interval between my Motion and the Committee, during which lion. Members may consider the Resolutions. If the Government will state that they do not intend to oppose the Motion for going into Committee to consider the Parliamentary grant, I will alter my Motion, and, instead of moving that the House go into Committee on a future day, I will move to go into Committee at once.
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, I have no objection to either of these two alternatives. I would let my notice of Motion stand as it is, and on the 25th of March move that on a future occasion the House should go into Committee on the question. Supposing the House assent to that Motion, it would become an order of the day for the House to go into Committee on the day appointed, and in the interval I would give notice of the Resolutions which on that future day I would submit to the Committee. But, in consequence of this discussion I am prepared to say, that if the Government find it consistent with their duty to say, that, without affirming or disaffirming any of the Resolutions, they will not object to go into Committee for the purpose of considering only this question of the distribution of this Parliamentary grant for educational purposes, I will alter my Motion, and instead thereof move, on the 25th of March, that the House at once resolve itself into such Committee; and, in that case, I will give at least a fortnight's notice of the Resolutions which I intend to submit.
 MR. WALPOLE : I have given notice of my Motion.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, When Westminster Bridge will
 795
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, that he thought the House would be better able to debate the question in open Committee of the whole House. He felt a deep interest in the subject of education, and he trusted that the Government would accede to the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole), and take the Revised Code in detail.
 MAJOR PARKER  said, that when the Indian army was under the Court of Directors only the highest officers in it held commissions under the Royal sign manual.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he wished to know why the Government did not make their own gas at all the dockyards, as it would be economical to do so? He found that while they expended for gas at Deptford only £250 where they had their own works, they paid for gas at Woolwich, £1,138; at Chatham, £900; at Sheer-
 840
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he wished to ask whether the Admiralty authorities had turned their attention to any of the patents for diminishing the consumption of coal used for marine steam-engines?
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  observed, that the Vote exceeded that of the last year by about £9,700, and unless the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty gave a satisfactory explanation for the augmentation, he should be inclined to move the reduction of the Vote by the whole of that sum. He observed that the Vote included payments for a large number of temporary clerks, but he thought it would be a better; plan for the Admiralty to engage permanently as many clerks as were needed.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wanted some explanation with respect to the statement regarding the Vote, to the effect that it was intended to reduce the number as vacancies occurred to 9,261.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to call attention to the great disproportion between the expenditure for the superintending staff and the number of men at the Malta establishment. The item in the Votes for that establishment amounted to £7,819, and he dared say the salary and emoluments of the Admiral Superintendent would probably swell the amount to £10,000. That appeared an extravagant sum to pay for the superintendence of only 487 men, whose yearly wages scarcely exceeded £22,000.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, that though he quite agreed with the hon. Member (Mr. Bentinck) that retrenchment was not always economy, he would venture to remind the House that expenditure was not always efficiency. He also thought that if the balance was struck between the loss arising from what was spent unnecessarily and that arising from mistaken retrenchment, the balance would be against the former. He was perfectly satisfied with the proposed appointments, and with the explanations given by the noble Lord respecting them. He believed that the increased expense of keeping the accounts would be amply compensated for by their improved efficiency.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, I understood my right hon. Friend to say, that if the first Motion were agreed to, he would then give notice of his Resolutions, and there would be a preliminary debate if necessary. If that is so, there will be no objection.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : But my right hon. Friend has not laid his Resolutions on the table. In a private conversation which I had with him the other night, my right hon. Friend asked me what course the Government were likely to take with regard to his Motion. Speaking only for myself, I stated that in my opinion that would depend on the nature of his Resolutions, and that I took it for granted he would lay them I on the table in sufficient time to enable us to consider them before the Motion came on. My right hon. Friend did not give me any ' decided answer. When my right hon. Friend lays those Resolutions on the table, the Government will be in a position to state what course they intend to pursue with respect to his propositions. If he does not lay them on the table before moving that the House resolve itself into Committee, the proper time for the Government to state what course they will take in reference to his Motion will be when my right hon. Friend has stated the reasons which have induced him to bring it forward.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, It is very inconvenient, on the order of the day for going into supply on the Navy Estimates, to enter upon a discussion as to the course to be taken with respect to a Motion of which notice has been fixed for, I think, a month hence; and I think it is manifestly inconvenient to ask the Government to state their intention as to propositions of which my right hon. Friend has not yet given notice.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I stated, Sir, that if the Bill were not printed it would not of course come on. But I told the hon. Member who asked the question that I thought he had better communicate with the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary for Ireland.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he would beg to ask the right hon. Gentleman the First Commissioner of Works whether he has determined to allow the leases of those houses to run out?
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to know, whether any means had been devised by which the Members of the Board of Admiralty were brought in
 811
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, that on questions of wages it was sufficiently plain sailing; but when they came to deal with that portion of the Votes which was expended on materials for the Dockyards, he believed there was no real responsibility chargeable on any one at the Admiralty Department. He had no doubt of the necessity of the other appointments, but with regard to the increase of £2,000 for the heads of a Transport Board no explanation whatever had been given.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to have some explanation with respect to a paper placed on the table, entitled "An account, showing the expenses incurred on Her Majesty's
 824 c Achilles
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, they were called upon to give great credit to the shipping masters for the position in which the Naval Reserve then stood. They had performed an amount of labour which it would be well for the country to recognise. He did not think that the officers of the merchant service deserved all the praise which had been given them. They were at first as much opposed to the Royal Naval Reserve as the men; but as light dawned upon one it fell upon the other, and he believed that in the future progress of the Reserve the officers of the
 820
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  asked,
 819
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he wished to point out, that if iron vessels were sent to distant stations where there were no docks, they would in course of a little time become unserviceable. It was on that account that so few iron merchant ships were employed in the Indian trade. He saw there was a reduction in the amount asked for paint. There was a general complaint in the navy that no sufficient allowance of paint for ship use was made, and first lieutenants had often to put their hands into their own pockets in order to keep their vessel in good order. He would ask why the Vote was reduced?
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, that as the water flowed two hours later out of Langstone harbour than out of Portsmouth harbour, it would be easy to direct any amount of scour out of the latter, even if the dock which he proposed was made. He therefore considered that if the Government applied steam power in dredging at Portsmouth, they would be able to remove all the obstructions, although the bottom of the harbour was one of a rocky character. An impression prevailed that vessels could only enter Portsmouth harbour at certain seasons, but he had information that there was no time of the year when vessels could not enter Portsmouth harbour with anything like a favourable wind. Last week the  Defence Warrior Trafalgar
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he observed that £10,000 was taken for dredging the bar of Portsmouth harbour. He wished to know whether the dredging operations hitherto carried out had not produced three feet additional water on the bar; whether any line-of-battle ship could not go in and out of the harbour at any time; and whether the  Defence Warrior
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he must maintain, with all deference to Sir
 841
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that the Bill was of a very unusual character,
 843
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he thought that those hon. Gentlemen who had been remarking upon the increase in the Estimates hardly bore in mind the simultaneous increase in the amount of work to be done, which he believed to be the true answer to the greater part of their criticisms. He was not prepared to support the Amendment of the hon. Member for Sunderland, because he believed that the
 813
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, I must say that the right hon. Gentleman who has just resumed his seat has by no means made the state of the question clearer. I cannot understand how there can be any misconception on the subject. It appears to me that there never was a plainer question before the House. My right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge has given notice that on the 25th of March he will move that the House go into Committee on a future day, to consider certain Resolutions on the Revised Code. The Government have been asked the most simple question—namely, whether they will or will not assent to that Motion. Will they give a
 806
 SIR MATTHEW RIDLEY  said, he regretted that the Bill did not include any provision with regard to works of plastic art.
 SIR MATTHEW RIDLEY  observed, that the present state of the law was most unsatisfactory both to the professors and patrons of that branch of art.
 SIR MICHAEL SEYMOUR  said, he wished to know whether the opportunity of entering the Royal Naval Reserve was to be extended to the Channel Islands. There was a valuable body of seamen both in Guernsey and Jersey, who ought to have an opportunity of volunteering for the Royal Naval Reserve.
 SIR MICHAEL SEYMOUR  said, he wished to learn the number out of the 10,000 men in the reserve that might be immediately available for service if required?
 SIR MICHAEL SEYMOUR  inquired, how far the arrangements with regard to the Naval Reserve extended to the Channel Islands?
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he had to express his regret that the Bill had not been delivered till that morning. But, as the subject had been before the House both in 1859 and 1860, he thought hon. Members would not object to the second reading.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, for the convenience of hon. Members, he would postpone the second reading to Monday next.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he would ask whether the small vessels, corvettes, and gunboats the Government intended to be built, were to be built of wood or iron?
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, that the noble Lord's answer raised a question of grave importance. He announced it to be the intention of the Government to build these smaller vessels of wood, as they could not as yet see their way to the use of iron. His hon. Friend the Member for Birkenhead, had adverted to the use of iron gunboats in the Indian navy; and he himself could state that when, some years ago, he raised the question of the use of iron for gunboats, he referred to the evidence of the commanders of the East Indian boats, who came forward and testified to their being in every particular superior to wood. Captain Hall, of the  Nemesis Harpy Filden Lizard 833
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, his vote would be determined by the answer which the noble Lord might give to the following question:—What had been the previous pursuits and the course of education of the gentleman appointed as acting constructor? It was of the highest importance in the new order of things with regard to shipbuilding, that the Constructor should be a gentleman of great practical experience. They all knew that Sir Baldwin Walker, the Comptroller of the Navy, had advised that the whole of the joints of the  Warrior 816 Warrior
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, that notwithstanding the information of the very highest authority which had been given to the Committee, he was still of opinion that, if they removed the bar at Portsmouth, the travelling shingle would fill it up again. He (Sir Morton Peto) adhered to what be had said before, that there were not above five days in the month when the  Warrior
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, the question of the employment of temporary clerks, alluded by the hon. Member, concerned as well the War Office as the Admiralty. He had moved for returns of the sums expended during the last five years on that class of clerks, and he hoped the House would soon be furnished with the information which those returns would afford. When that information was obtained, it would be seen that the amount
 812
 MR. BAZLEY  said, he desired to ask the Secretary of State for India, When his promise to place the Medical Officers of Her Majesty's Indian Army upon a perfect footing of equality with the Medical Officers of Her Majesty's British Army will be carried into effect; and to inquire the reason why Medical Officers of Her Ma-
 796
 MR. PEEL  in reply said, that the Memorial had been considered, and that the Treasury was about to communicate with the Irish Government upon the subject. He might at the same time state that there would he no objection to an investigation limited to inquiring whether, without lessening the facilities of navigation which had been obtained at so large an expenditure of public money, it might be possible to do anything to diminish the liability to flooding of the lands adjoining the Shannon. That inquiry would only be undertaken upon two conditions—one that the memorialists or landowners should undertake to defray one-half of its cost; and the other, that the cost of any works which might be recommended should be defrayed by the owners of land.
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether his attention has been directed to the loss to the country in the conveyance of Mails between Galway and America; and if he is prepared to recommend its resumption?
 MR. PEEL  said, he believed that there was no evidence to show that the Shannon Commissioners did not carry out all the works which were contemplated at the time the Act which appointed them was passed.
 MR. PEEL  said, that he was informed that three copies of the Models of Gasholders deposited in the Office of the Comptroller General of the Exchequer, in compliance with the 3rd Section of the Sale of Gas Act, were completed, and ready to be sent to London, Edinburgh, and Dublin. The Lord Mayor of London had been informed that the model was ready for him whenever he chose to send for it. As to the other two, they would not be sent until it was ascertained that proper accommodation was provided for them.
 MR. GHILDERS  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, If any communication has been made to the Admiralty relative to the recommendation of the Transport Service Committee as affecting the Emigration Department; and if he will state the purport of such communications?
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether the total force maintained on the Indian Establishment has been decided on for this year; whether he will lay upon the table of the House, before he brings in the Army Estimates, the data upon which the capitation rate of £10 per man, which is to be paid by the Indian Government, has been calculated; whether the amount so produced is to cover the expenses of the Depots of Indian Regiments at home, of recruiting, and of the payment of Pensioners from Indian Regiments; and whether he will furnish an account in detail of the items and services to which this payment by the Indian Go-
 889
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  did not see any advantage in anticipating the discussion on the Army Estimates, which would take place on Monday next. In answer to the first question of the hon. and gallant Member, he begged to state that the total force in India, exclusive of local troops, was, during the year, to consist of 56 battalions of infantry, 11 regiments of cavalry, and 16 brigades of artillery. The reply to the second question was, that the capitation rate of £10 per man was calculated on the total force of the Imperial army in India, including cavalry, infantry, and artillery, officers and men, as shown by the monthly muster rolls. The sum thus calculated was paid by the Indian Government to cover all expenses of raising and training men in the United Kingdom, and was continued until they landed in India. It did not include clothing nor kits. There was another sum of £3 10s. per man, which was calculated on a similar principle, for non-effective charges. It was estimated that those payments would in 1862–3 amount to £730,000 for effectives and £255,500 for non-effectives—giving a total of £985,000. Formerly the effective charges used to be paid over by the Indian Government to the War Office without appearing in the Estimates. In the present year, 1862–3, these charges are included, for the first time, in the Estimates, the increase in which is, therefore, in a great degree merely apparent. The money received from the Indian Government would not be deducted from the Estimates, but would be paid into the Exchequer.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that he anticipated that when the correspondence between the Treasury, the Admiralty, and the Post Office with reference to the pier and other accommodation at Holyhead was completed, which he hoped would
 852
 LORD ROBERT CECIL : The right hon. Gentleman said it was impossible that "any innovations" could be made.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL : And serve, as now, for a period of five years.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he rose to ask the Vice President of the Council a question of which he had given notice, namely, Whether orders were not issued, shortly after the promulgation of the Revised Code, that the portion of it which concerned the conditions under which Pupil Teachers were to be engaged should be acted upon forthwith; and whether forms of examination, giving notice to that effect, were not printed? The Revised Code had two aspects. In one it was a so-called educational reform, and in the other it had an important bearing upon the privileges of the House of Commons. Some time ago, when the subject was first brought before the House by the Vice President of the Council, the right hon. Gentleman was reproached with having issued the Revised Code as a decree of his own when Parliament had ceased for a time to exist; thereby introducing a vast change into the educational legislation of the country without allowing Parliament any opportunity of pronouncing its opinion on the subject. In reply to that charge the right hon. Gentleman said that the Code by its very nature could not come into operation until the financial year had passed away, and that consequently the accusation could not by any possibility be correct. His exact words were—
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he would bow to the decision of the right hon. Gentleman; but in doing so he might call attention to the fact that the House was about to go into Committee of Supply, and that he was stating a grievance which demanded redress beforehand. If in stating grievances which demanded redress independent Members were to be forbidden from referring to words which had previously fallen from a Minister of the Crown, it seemed to him that the responsibility of Ministers of the Crown to that House would be quite illusory. The ancient and constitutional practice was, that independent Members when the House was going into Committee of Supply, should have an opportunity of calling Ministers
 873
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he would again bow to the decision of the right hon. Gentleman, but in doing so he might remark that reference was frequently made to debates in "another place" without the slightest interference from the Chair.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he had only again to bow to the decision of the right hon. Gentleman, for he had no means of resisting it; but in doing so he might be permitted to say that it was very favourable to Ministers of the Crown. He would not quote any distinct words, but he might be allowed to remark that it was generally supposed that the Vice President of the Council had grounded his defence against the charge to which he had referred upon this consideration—that the nature of the Revised Code was such that it was absolutely impossible the Code could come into effect until Parliament had an opportunity of pronouncing its opinion upon the subject. He wished to test that defence by facts. He did not know whether the right hon. Gentleman
 874 "I will merely state the outline of the Minute, prefacing it with the assurance that the Committee need not be afraid that we contemplate any  coup d'état "We intend to preserve the interests of pupil-teachers, and to take care that all future pupil-teachers shall serve, as now, for a period of five years." 875 "The main difference between a pupil-teacher and a monitor is, that while the latter is engaged by the job—that is to say, a week, a month, or a year—the pupil-teacher is apprenticed with an engagement for five years." 876 877
 MR. LAYARD  said, the Report of the Committee had been taken into earnest consideration at the Foreign Office, and an attempt had been made to embody their recommendations in a scheme. That scheme had been forwarded to the Treasury, and in case it met with their approval it would rest with that Department to submit such demands to the House as might be necessary to cover the additional expenses that would be entailed by the alterations recommended by the Committee.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, seeing the noble Viscount the leader of the House in his place, I wish to make an inquiry of him on a point connected with the course of public business, which I believe is of much interest to the House. The noble Lord is aware that my right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge has given notice of a Motion on Tuesday, the 25th of March, to the effect that this House upon a subsequent day, to be then named, shall go into Committee of the whole House, to consider the mode of distributing the national fund for the purposes of national education. My right hon. Friend said that he would be prepared on the 25th of March to ask the opinion of the House whether it was desirable or not to consider the subject in Committee; and if they agreed to that Motion, he would before the day for going
 856
 MR. DISRAELI : I only wish to make a few observations in order to render my statement clear. If the right hon. Gentleman thinks I am misrepresenting the case, he will have an opportunity of replying to me on a subsequent occasion. I wish now to put a question to the noble Viscount. I apprehend what both sides of the House wish to understand is this:—Are we, on the 25th of March next, to go  bonâ, fide
 MR. NEWDEGATE : I quite understand the uneasiness of the hon. Member for the King's County (Mr. Hennessy)—I mean the uneasiness which he has expressed in this House. He fears that there should be introduced into the Civil Service examinations a religious qualification. Now, on former occasions the hon. Gentleman has expressed himself as much in favour of the introduction of the denominational system of education into Ireland. I have heard him put that opinion forward. Well, if we are to have a denominational system, how are the denominations to be ascertained without examination? And how can the hon. Gentleman reconcile his anxiety in favour of a denominational system with his present objection to the very reasonable proposition made in the circular or advertisements issued by the Educational Board in Ireland. It is obvious that when the hon. Gentleman proclaims his anxiety in favour of the denominational system, it must be a
 864
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he wished to make a few remarks in reference to a former statement he had made respecting the condition of the town of Coventry, which be regretted to say was in deeper distress than appeared to be generally believed. The House would no doubt feel that it was his duty to be very careful of what he said when he was speaking of men whose credit might not stand so securely as it had done before the distress visited the manufacturers and the working' people of Coventry. He trusted, therefore, that the House would allow him to correct himself in the matter. It would be recollected that he had, on that day fortnight, stated that out of eighty master manufacturers in Coventry fifty had been in the  Gazette "Coventry, Feb. 15, 1862. "In  The Times Gazette 888 "Coventry, Feb. 20, 1862. "Dear Sir—If you will refer to my statement, you will see that I stated in reply to your query as to the number of failures as follows:—'This cannot be at present ascertained, but it is estimated that the number at the present time far exceeds fifty, not including insolvents.' Now, when I mentioned fifty I did not confine myself to manufacturers alone, but I included other tradesmen who had failed in consequence of the depressed state of the trade in this city and neighbourhood. Again, I not only considered those men had failed who had become bankrupts, but who had arranged with their creditors to pay less than 20s. in the pound. At the same time I did not include in the fifty men who had taken the benefit of the late Insolvency Acts—that is, whose estates were under £300; for had I done so, I must have made the fifty into 150, &c. &c. From what you said in the House I infer that you took it for granted that the fifty who had failed had all been in the  Gazette "I remain, dear Sir, yours truly, "C. N. Newdegate, Esq., M. P."—.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, he regretted that since the hon. Baronet and his constituents had attached so much importance to this annexation, he had not taken an opportunity of addressing the Poor Law Board until the very day before the 1st March, the last on which anything could be done
 886 887
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, his hon. friend who had just spoken had entirely mistaken the facts of the case. The
 869 870 "Officers of the staff corps will be rarely appointed to do duty with native regiments retaining their regular organization. When so appointed, however, and on public grounds, it would be unjust to deprive them of the privileges attached to their relative regimental rank. Their position in the regiment, therefore, will be similar to that of the officers belonging to the general list formed by your General Order No. 1,637 of 1859, and they will be entitled while so employed to all the advantages of their (original) position as regimental officers. Officers of the staff corps, who while doing duty with their former corps may be promoted in the staff corps to a higher grade, will at once cease to do duty with their former regi-
 871
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  in explanation said, that they had given a bonus to officers who were entitled to retire, and a promotion took place on each of those retirements; but that when they created additional retirements, they then gave only a proportionate amount of promotion.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, his noble Friend at the head of the Colonial Department, without attempting to go into the general question of the Transport Board, had represented to the Admiralty that the process of removing British emigrants from this country to the Colonies was long and complicated, depending not merely on the transport itself, but on the previous steps taken for the selection and bringing together of emigrants, and that it would probably be highly disadvantageous to the conduct of emigration if all the steps of that process were not to remain in the same hands. He further pointed out that the transport itself would probably not be so well managed
 855
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he wished to inquire whether the right hon. Gentleman proposed to return to the counties the £300,000 which had been raised for works not executed?
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he desired to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If any steps have been taken by the Irish Government to inquire into the facts contained in the Memorial presented to the Lord Lieutenant relative to the condition of the Rivers Shannon and Swabe agreed to at a Public Meeting of the Landowners, Landholders, &c, held at Athlone in November last; and when a reply to such Memorial may be expected?
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Council whether the introduction of the new principle of individual examination would necessitate any increase in the number of salaries of the present staff of school inspectors? During the preceding year £65,000 odd, or upwards of two-thirds of the grant, went alone to the payment of the inspectors? At present there were about sixty inspectors—thirty-six full and twenty-four assistant inspectors, and the table of fees was based upon rather a high scale. The thirty-six inspectors received salaries, perhaps, including allowances and augmentations, varying from £700 to £900, exclusive of travelling expenses. The assistants received from £450 to £535, also exclusive of travelling expenses. He was not sure that the number of those gentlemen would not have to be increased; but without having a word to say against the efficiency of the present body, he thought that if the new Code came into operation, thereby considerably diminishing the duties to be performed, a salary of £900 per annum for examining children in their alphabet, and in writing and arithmetic, would look rather formidable.
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, that was precisely the grievance, that when officers were induced by the Government to retire,
 872
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, he did not think the explanation which the right hon. Gentleman had given the House was by any means satisfactory. The case of his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Aberdeen was this:—A practice had prevailed in the Indian army by which officers of regiments got promotion in rotation, but that the Government, having a number of officers unemployed, were placing those officers in the Bombay and Madras regiments over the heads of officers of long service, and were there by violating the practice that had previously prevailed. The right hon. Gentleman had virtually admitted the fact, but had stated, that in order to employ those officers there was no other resource than to place them, according to their rank in other regiments. That might be very true; but what sort of answer was it, he should like to know, to make to the complaints of the officers who were thus superseded? Passing over that point, however, he might be allowed to advert to the question raised by the hon. Baronet below him (Sir George Bowyer) which, as he understood it, turned upon an order issued by the Government declaring that certain officers who wished to retire should have a bonus for so doing; and which was accompanied by a regulation stating that the vacancy so created should not entitle the officer next in rank to promotion. Now, of that order the officers next in rank complained. They contended that previous to its issue old officers who would have been obliged to retire, owing to impaired health or any other cause, would, upon their retirement under these circumstances, have created a vacancy which would enable those under them to obtain a step in rank; but that, owing to the operation of the new order, no such promotion took place.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, When certain copies of the Models of Gasholders, deposited in the Office of the Comptroller General of the Exchequer, in compliance with the 3rd Section of the Sale of Gas Act, 22 &c 23  Vict
 MR. WYLD  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether any communication has been made to the Government of the United States upon the withdrawal of the American squadron from the coast of Africa; whether any attempt was made by the British Government to induce the President of the United States to prevent the use of the United States flag by foreign slavers on the West Coast of Africa; and whether any request has been made to the President of the United States to permit British ships of war engaged in the suppression of the Slave Trade to ascertain (during the absence of the United States squadron) the nationality of ships which may hoist the flag of the United States?
 MR. WYLD  said, he must remind the noble Lord that be had not given any answer to the last branch of his question. At present the whole of the Slave Trade on the coast of Africa was carried on under the United States flag.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the noble Lord could not do by an evasion of the rules of the House that which he could not do under their provisions.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the noble Lord could not refer to, or quote words used in, a past debate of the present Session.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the rules of that House were very positive upon the point that words used in a former debate could not be quoted or referred to unless the debate was a consecutive one, upon the subject of a Bill or other measure before the House at the time. That was a very distinct rule with respect to past debates in the same Session. Any reference to debates in "another place" was still less permitted in that House.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he wished to ask a question of the Chief Secretary for Ireland on a subject which he had brought under the right hon. Baronet's notice about a fortnight previously. An advertisement had appeared within the last few weeks in several of the Irish papers. That advertisement commenced in these terms—
 "The Commissioners of National Education are about to nominate four candidates to compete for one vacant place in the class of sub-inspectors of National Schools in Ireland. None but members of the Roman Catholic Church are eligible to compete for the present vacancy. The examination in the following subjects will be held in Dublin under the direction of the Civil Service Commissioners." "Applications, accompanied by copies of testimonials, and stating age and religious denomination of the candidate, must be addressed," &c. 862
 MR. HENNESSY : With the permission of the House, I would withdraw the Amendment; but perhaps the right hon. Gentleman will answer the question, "Will the examination take place?"
 MR. VANCE  seconded the Motion.
 MR. VANCE  said, the hon. Gentleman who had last spoken seemed to have an exaggerated notion of his (Mr. Vance's) power to put down Protestant ascendency. He believed it no longer existed. What he wanted for the Protestants was fair play, and that he believed would be promoted by assenting to the Motion of the hon. Member for the King's County. As it had been resolved that there should be a national system of education, irrespective of creeds, in Ireland, the practice of advertising for denominational teachers, inspectors, or any others to carry on the system, ought to be condemned. If such a system had been established, it would be more honoured in the breach than in the observance. Men ought to be selected, not for their particular creed, but for their efficiency as teachers or inspectors.
 MR. HASSARD  said, he wished to call the attention of the Chief Secretary for Ireland to the state of the law relative to the Commissioners of Charitable Donations and Bequests in Ireland, and to ask him if he is to introduce any measure during the present Session to amend any defects therein? Considerable litigation had recently taken place on the subject, and the Commissioners declared that after considering carefully the law, they had come to the conclusion that they could not receive either land or money for trust purposes
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether it is the intention of the Government to comply with the Recommendation of the Diplomatic Committee of last Session?
 MR. LOWE : The noble Lord has read a paragraph from the new Code, in which it is said that the engagement shall be terminated by six months' notice from either party; and he says that is a breach of my undertaking. Hard words, Sir! But does the noble Lord know what is the present engagement of pupil-teachers? Their present engagement is to serve five years, and they are apprenticed by deed; but that deed is not stamped, and it has no validity whatever. That has always been the practice of the office, and it was thought better in introducing a new Code that we should give a really effective agreement, terminable by notice on either side, than perpetuate an agreement which is in the eye of the law a nullity. If the noble Lord examines the agreement which he quoted, he will find that the direction is to
 880 881 882 883 maximum 884
 MR. LOWE  said, the noble Lord catches at the words "any innovations;" but it is impossible for a Member of this House, or a Minister of the Crown, to be so guarded in the words he makes use of as to defy criticism. I may have inadvertently used the expression quoted by the noble Lord, but the meaning of what I said was, that we had not the slightest intention of introducing a change without the consent of Parliament. It is impossible. What the Minutes amount to is this. They are the notices given by the Department of Education of the principle on which the Department will solicit from Parliament the granting of the Vote for Education. As you cannot touch the grants now held under one system and apply them under another, and as you cannot get the money to carry out the new system without the consent of Parliament, it is impossible—granting me to have all the evil intentions which are imputed to me—to make this revolution which is apprehended. Then the noble Lord says I told the House that pupil-teachers under the new Code should be engaged for five years, as they now are.
 MR. LOWE : Sir, it is impossible to reconcile the letters with my statements; but had the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Durham (Mr. Mowbray) been kind enough to call my attention to the facts before I came to the House, I should no doubt have been prepared to give some explanation. At the Privy Council Office we correspond with some 6,000 or 7,000 schools, and it is impossible for me or any one person to be responsible for every letter; but if hon. Gentlemen would give me some notice, I should be able to answer their questions. I can only say that the letters, as stated, are not in accordance with our practice, because we have in innumerable cases since the notice was given on the 23rd September, consented to the apprenticeship of fresh pupil-teachers under the old Code. I will explain all the facts to the House, but I cannot accept the versions which gentlemen may give to hon. Members of letters which I have never seen. If the right hon. Gentleman will move for papers, or will come to the office and inspect them, I will endeavour to give him every satisfaction; but I cannot undertake to explain everything on the spur of the moment. 879 coup d'é at
 MR. LOWE  was understood to say that there would be no objection to the Production of these returns.
 MR. WHITBREAD  said, that he did not presume to offer any opinion on the suggestion made by the hon. Baronet as to the establishment of a General Contingency fund, because the question involved very grave considerations, and could not be satisfactorily disposed of by any one on the spur of the moment. The correspondence as to the bar at Portsmouth should be read in connection with the Estimates and correspondence of the previous year. The expenditure was unavoidable; without it the bar would have been left in an incomplete state, and the money previously spent thrown away. With respect to the course pursued by the Admiralty he observed that it was not a new one; that the Admiralty had the power to apply sums from one item under Vote No. 11 to another item under that Vote, so long as the total Estimate in the first column was not exceeded; but they were bound to ob-
 896
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, from the answer just given by the noble Viscount, I infer that the Government would have no objection, if I laid my Resolutions on the table, as I said yesterday I should fee prepared to do, at least a fortnight before the day on which I am to make my Motion
 858
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : I am not aware, Sir, that Her Majesty's Government have entered into any negotiations with any parties in this country relative to telegraphic communication between England and America. The American Government have expressed, in general terms, a wish that, by some means or other, a telegraphic communication should be established between England and America; but no distinct proposal has been made on the subject, and therefore no negotiations have been entered into with any foreign Governments with reference to such communication.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that the hon. Gentleman had very accurately described what had passed in the Session of 1860, with reference to the Bill. It was perfectly true that the Bill had passed in that House; but subsequently it was stated that hon. Members connected with the commercial interest had not paid that attention to it which it was desirable its provisions should receive at their hands. That was what had been stated, and it led the Government to reconsider the objections which had been urged to the Bill. He had come to the conclusion that the Bill of 1860 was, in the main, a good one; and they were now in communication with the Customs authorities on the subject. With regard to one portion of the Bill, there was a controversy between the wharfingers on the one hand, and the docks on the other, which was of such a
 861
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he would not call the terms of the Motion "captious," but he could not understand the object of bringing the subject before the House, except for the purpose of bothering the Chief Secretary, who seemed to be sufficiently bothered already by Irish affairs. It seemed most extraordinary that, though there were last Session and the Session before repeated complaints of the large preponderance of Protestant inspectors, now, when a Roman Catholic was to be appointed, a member
 865
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : —Sir, hare seen and read the Report of the Postmaster General to which my hon. Friend refers, and I have no doubt that he must be accurate in the statement which he makes. But with respect to the resumption of the Galway Con tract, and the general subject of steam communication between Galway and America, I have only to say, that if Her Majesty's Government should see cause to propose any further measure on that subject, their intentions will be made known to the House by my noble Friend (Viscount Palmerston) on the first fitting opportunity,
 MR. GREGORY : Seeing my right hon. Friend the Secretary for Ireland in his place, I wish to ask him a question; and as it is a matter of personal interest to myself, I shall explain in very few words lay object in putting the question. My right hon. Friend in a speech the other night, quoted a letter from me to the effect that I had written to him to say that, as far as I could learn, there was an ample supply of food in Ireland. Now, sir, I have been over in Ireland and have made inquiries, and it is my duty to say that there is a great deal of distress in that country. And as that letter might appear to have been written at the present time, I wish to ask the right hon. Gentleman, If it was not dated the 12th of November last, whether it did not refer to my own immediate locality, and whether in that letter I did not mention that there would be considerable distress in Ireland arising from want of fuel?
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether the right of Officers of the Native Regiments of Madras and Bombay to succeed by Seniority to the command of Troops or Companies, and to the ultimate com-
 867 868 Vict
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, that the subject was one of great importance, and it was extremely desirable that hon. Members should turn their attention to the correspondence and returns to which allusion had been made, which constituted their only check upon the administration. On a cursory examination of that correspondence he thought that there were many points
 897
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, that he had received communications from India to the effect that the greatest possible dissatisfaction on this subject existed among the officers of the late Indian army. Those officers who had availed themselves of the option allowed them under certain circumstances of accepting retiring allowances, had their names printed in italics in a list, and, on the death of any one of those officers, no promotion took place; though by the Act of Parliament it was distinctly provided that the officers of the late native Indian army were to be placed in the same position, not only as regards pay, but promotion also, as they would have occupied had they continued to serve the India Company. It was plain that the pledge given to those officers had been broken, because if they had remained in the service of the Company, whenever a death occurred there would have been a promotion. Their chances of promotion had thus been seriously diminished, and he wished to ask what course the Government proposed to take, and whether they were going to consider the matter? He hoped that no consideration of economy would be allowed to interfere, for he was sure that the feeling of the House would he against saving money at the expense of meritorious officers who had spent the best part of their lives in the service of the country.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I rise to order. If the right hon. Gentleman refers to what was said from the Treasury bench, of course those hon. Members to whom he alludes must have an opportunity of replying.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he had received a copy of a letter addressed by Mr. A. Corrie, from the Council Office, to a clergyman at St. Saviour's National
 878 "Sir,—I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your letter, and I am directed to inform you that on the 1st. of November next the minute of the 29th of July, 1861, will take effect in your school, and all new appointments will be subject to the Revised Code."
 MR. MOWBRAY  said, that he had received a letter from a clergyman at New Seaham, in the county of Durham, stating that in December last he was informed from the Council Office, that no more apprenticeships would be sanctioned under the old system. He wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman how he could reconcile that with his statement in the House, that in future pupil-teachers should serve for five years?
 SIR ROBERT CLIFTON  said, that he
 885
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, the question was one of considerable importance, and he quite admitted that the existing state of things in connection with the Board of Charitable Donations and Trusts in Ireland called loudly for remedy. On the part of the Irish Government, however, he might say that so anxious were they to consider the question, that on the 12th of September he wrote to the Master of the Rolls on the subject, and pointed out the difficulty of getting the business done. He found that before the vacation the Commissioners had passed a resolution in July, showing the inconveniences of the present system, which required not less than five of the Commissioners to be present—indeed, on the last two occasions they were unable to get a quorum, and therefore the business remained untrausacted. It had occurred to him that it might be well to introduce the English Act, 16 & 17  Vict
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : In reply to my hon. Friend I beg to say that I had u desire to state anything but that which i strictly correct. It is true I wrote to my hon. friend, as I knew at the time that he was going to Africa, and on his way through Dublin he wrote to me a letter which I received on my return from my prolonged absence in the West. That letter is dated the 12th November. But it contained the words which I quoted, and which were—
 "I have taken some pains to ascertain how things stand in my part of the world, and, as far as I can ascertain the real state of the case, I think there will be a sufficient supply of food."
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : I think the hon. Gentleman who moved the Amendment, has entirely misunderstood the usual course of proceeding by the Board of National
 863
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  (who
 890 891 892 "Sir,—I am commanded by my Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty to acquaint you, for the information of the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury, that my Lords have directed the sum of £5,000, for providing an iron caisson for Sheerness Dockyard, to be charged to the aggregate Vote 11, postponing other services, so as not to create an excess." 893 Achilles nil 894 895 Achilles
 MR. CAVE  rose to ask the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade the
 859 860
 SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR   brought
 SIR WILLIAM GALLWEY  said, he wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade, If the Government have entered into any negotiations with parties in this country, or considered offers of co-operation from Foreign Governments, for the purpose of laying down Telegraphic communication with America?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I do not think there is any objection to the course proposed by the right hon. Gentleman, as I understand he would lay his Resolutions on the table a fortnight before the day on which his Motion is to come on.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I was not here yesterday, but on reading the record of what passed, which is in the
 857
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : My hon. Friend must be aware that no permission given merely by the President of the United States can be effectual. Such a right of search as he contemplates can only be exercised under a treaty sanctioned by the Senate.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : —Sir, a representation has been made to the United States Government that the number of guns stipulated by treaty to be employed by them on the coast of Africa for the suppression of slavery are not now on that station. The answer given was, that the necessities of war, and of the blockade which they were establishing on the Southern Coast, obliged them to withdraw from foreign stations part of their cruisers which had been there employed. Undoubtedly, this answer, though one cannot altogether contest it, is not a very satisfactory one, because it only amounts to this—that the United States fail in executing the engagement of a treaty relating to a subject in which Englishmen take great interest, because the cruisers which ought to be employed there were employed in establishing a
 854
 MR. COWPER  said, Hyde Park was already so crowded with carriages on ordinary occasions that he thought there might be great reason to doubt whether the public convenience would be consulted by allowing public carriages to pass between Stanhope Gate and Apsley Gate when the great influx of additional traffic that
 914
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that the alteration referred to by the hon. and gallant Gentleman had been made in consequence of the Report of a Committee of Cavalry Officers, presided over by His Royal Highness the Duke of Cambridge. It consisted merely in converting four regiments of Light Dragoons into Hussars. The change in the uniform was very trifling; and in the case of privates it was principally in the stable-dress. Time had been allowed for the present clothing to be worn out before the change was to come into operation, and when that was the case it was not the custom to give compensation to the Officers. In the ease of the privates also, time was allowed for wearing out the old uniform.
 COLONEL GILPIN  said, be wished to ask the Secretary of State for India, If he will lay upon the table the Report of the Commissioners who were assembled in India to consider upon what terms Officers of the Indian Army for whom no active employment could he found should be permitted to retire; and also the decision of the Home Government in reference to the recommendation of such Commissioners. In case the right hon. Baronet should refuse the Return he asked
 915
 MAJOR KNOX : May I ask the right hon. Gentleman whether the promotions will be by seniority?
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : I do not at all dispute the right of the hon. Baronet to bring forward this Motion upon going into Committee of Supply on the Army Estimates for this year; but I think the House will see that it can have no bearing on the Estimates that are now on the table, when, in order to give effect to the Motion, these Estimates must be withdrawn and entirely recast, and considerable delay necessarily incurred for the purpose of that double operation. Therefore, whatever importance the Motion may have must be considered as limited strictly to its future operation. But I confess, if the Government had taken the course which the hon. Baronet recommends in his resolution, I should have expected to hear the hon. Baronet himself, as a financial
 929 930
 MR. HENLEY  said, that if he understood correctly the statements of the hon. Member who had just spoken, his constituents in the Tower Hamlets would have the pleasure of contributing their share to provide the funds for the whole Indian army, inasmuch as his proposal was, that in consequence of the amalgamation of the two armies it was the duty of the Government to bring forward the entire charge for the Indian army—he did not say whether he included Blacks as well as Whites in his proposal—for payment in this country. [Mr. AYRTON: I said the whole charge in this country in respect to Queen's troops in India, not the whole charge of the Indian army in India.] Then, if that were the hon. Gentleman's view, he did
 933 el cetera
 SIR. GEORGE LEWIS : Of course every estimate of this kind must be made upon an average. The estimate of £10 per head was very carefully prepared last year by a Committee composed partly of Members of the Indian Department and partly of Officers of the War Department. 937
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : No-on the muster-roll.
 MR. HENLEY : In answer to the contradiction which I received from the Chancellor of the Exchequer, I have to say that I now hold in my band the Estimates for 1854, when the right hon. Gentleman held his present office, and it is there stated that under an Act of George IV. the sum of £60,000 was paid into the Exchequer from the East India Company.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  doubted whether £10 per head per annum would cover the whole charge of all kinds for the effective force, and thought that in a matter of so much importance the House ought to have the detailed figures of the calculation placed before it.
 SIR. GEORGE LEWIS  remarked, that if there were 60,000 troops in India, their cost under the arrangement would be known; under the old system the difficulty arose as to striking the balances.
 GENERAL PEEL  rose, pursuant to notice, to call attention to the want of control on the part of the House of Commons over the naval and military expenditure of the country. After having given notice of his intention to submit this subject to the consideration of the House, he found that his hon. Friend the Member for Stamford (Sir Stafford Northcote) had taken up the matter and introduced the question to the House. Notwithstanding, however, that fact, and that a discussion arose on the occasion, he thought the subject so important that it could not be too frequently urged upon the attention of her Majesty's Government. It appeared to him that nothing Could be more unsatisfactory than the position in which the House, stood as regarded the control of the money voted for the naval and military expenditure of the country. In point of fact, the House exercised no control whatever over this expenditure. They all professed themselves to be advocates of the strictest economy, and he had no doubt those professions were sincere. But what steps did they take to carry them into effect? He could assure the House that the observations he was about to make were dictated by no party feeling, and were not meant to apply to any particular Government, far less to any individuals. If any fault attached, it lay with that House generally for not having exercised a more effectual control over the expenditure. It was true they had always the Estimates before them, and it might be said that the House had the power of reducing the Votes. All he could say in reply to that was, that the exercise of that power involved a degree of responsibility which he for one should be sorry to share. It should be recollected that the Estimates were always proposed on the responsibility of the Government of the day, and that they alone were fully competent to judge of the number of men required during the course of the financial year. He looked upon the Estimates for the Army and Navy as implying to a
 940 941 942 943
 GENERAL PEEL : Exactly. He had known a case, not of £50,000, but of hundreds of thousands, which became a charge on the ensuing year; and he doubted much whether they should have heard anything about the matter unless the Government had been obliged to come down to the House for a Supplemental Estimate. He did not mean to say that the money had been improperly expended. On the contrary, he thought that the large outlay for the last few years on the military and naval services had placed those services in a state of efficiency which redounded much to the credit of all the departments. He believed that the expenditure had been most economical—had saved the country the necessity of going to war, and that the state of preparation in which the country had been found had saved us the expenditure of many millions. He did not object to the expenditure that had been incurred, but that the House had not that control ever the money voted which it ought to have. For instance, from the years 1858 to 1861, Indian troops were employed in China who had had never been voted by that House, and had never been included in the Estimates. He had the greatest doubt whether the provisions of the Mutiny Act could be applied to men so engaged and not included in the Act. What he meant to say was that the men who had been so employed were employed without this House having authorized such a proceeding. They were paid for in one lump, and no account that he knew of had ever been given to the House of that ex-
 944
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : The speech of the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. Williams) in favour of limiting the expenditure for the defence of our Colonies might advantageously have been reserved until to-morrow, when a special Resolution upon that very subject will be submitted to the House. As to the remarks of the right hon. and gallant Member for Huntingdon (General Peel) upon the general question of the control exercised by this House over the Army and Navy expenditure, I can only express my opinion that
 950 951
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  thought that the hon. Baronet must he referring to native Indian troops.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that it had been in his consideration whether under each colony the amount should be given, distributed through the various particulars which made up the Army Estimates. But the items in many cases were so small that the House would be rather perplexed than informed; and the real question of importance was to give the sum total for each colony. Of course the noble Lord could have the information he desired, if the House wished it, in a Supplemental Estimate.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : Mr. Massey, although we make annually a constitutional protest against the institution of a standing army—although we annually recite in our Mutiny Act that it is contrary to the liberties of this country to maintain a standing army without the consent of Parliament, still I think that this protest must be considered as a constitutional fiction, and that we must regard an army as belonging to the permanent institutions of the country, not less than the  navy 955 minus 956 957 958 959 960 961 962 s d s d s d s d s d s d s d s d 963 964 965 966 967 968 969 "That a number of Land Forces, not exceeding 145,450, exclusive of the Men employed in Her Majesty's Indian Possessions, Commissioned, and Non-Commissioned Officers included, be maintained for the Service of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1863, inclusive."
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  asked, why no decision had yet been come to by the Indian Government as to the strength of the artillery force to be maintained in India, and also why the number of horses was not stated in the Estimate r
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that the Staff establishment for the Indian depots was no doubt large, but it was a matter of arrangement between the War Office and the Indian Department. As to the artillery, the Exchequer had its limits, which could not be exceeded, and it was not thought expedient to increase the artillery force, though no doubt it was a very valuable arm of the service.
 GENERAL PEEL  said, that at first sight it appeared that in these Estimates the rate of £100 per man, which he last year stated to be about the cost of the army, had been exceeded; but if the Indian depots, which were for the first time included in these Estimates, were added to the home establishment, the whole number of men to be voted was 153,074, which, at £100 per man, gave a sum of £15,307,400; the amount asked for by the Estimates was £15,302,870, showing that his rule of allowing £100 per man was pretty correct. He regretted that the Estimates did not contain a regular debtor and creditor account of the dealings of the manufacturing establishments. Their cost was given, but there was no account of what they produced. The right hon. Baronet had taken credit for service performed under these Estimates for the Navy, but he had omitted to mention that the cost of some services performed for the Army, such as transport, &c, was defrayed out of the Naval Estimates. He wished to know whether the new system, that the Indian Government should makes its payment direct to the War Office had come into operation, and what sums had been received on that account? In comparing the Estimates for the present with those of former years, it ought not to be forgotten, that while some years ago the number of men voted was never raised, it was now often exceeded.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the new arrangement for the repayment of monies by the Indian Government was made during last Session after the Estimates
 971
 COLONEL NORTH  said, if our army had only to defend England, the hon. Member might have cause to complain; but he should remember that it was sent to America and every other part of the worlds and that being so, it was not to be compared with other armies.
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  asked, whether the capitation tax of £10 per man to be paid by the Indian Government, was a permanent or annual calculation?
 SIR GEOEGE LEWIS  said, he had already stated that one of the causes of the increase of expenditure of late years was the establishment of soldiers' institutes. If his hon. Friend turned to pages 134–5 in the Estimates, he would see that provision was made in many cases for barrack libraries, reading rooms, and similar institutions. He (Sir George Lewis) had also made a small provision in the present Estimate for instructing the soldiers at Aldershot in trades, which he understood was practised to a considerable extent in the French camps, and with great benefit. If the experiment turned out successful, it would lead to an extension to other camps. He desired to state, with regard to hospital stoppages, that they were not quite abolished, and what he meant to say was that they had been considerably reduced.
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, the depots of the new regiments in India were not included in the 7,624 men.
 MR. T. G. BARING  stated that it included the whole establishment.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that the practice of the War Office had been to regard the number of men voted, not as a  maximum
 GENERAL PEEL  wished to know how the excess of 4,000 men up to the 1st of November was explained?
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, the same question was put at the end of last Session, and he then endeavoured to explain the circumstances. By a Return presented last February, the number on the British establishment appeared to be in excess of the number voted by Parliament. But the number included the recruits which the Government of India required for the new brigades of artillery, and some men
 975
 GENERAL PEEL  understood that the 4,000 men in excess were upon the establishment.
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, there was a special arrangement with the Indian Government that the expenses of the recruits for the new batteries should be paid for by India.
 GENERAL PEEL  said, it was the first time he had heard of the special arrangement.
 MR. HENLEY  said, as far as he could understand the explanation given, there appeared on the face of the paper an excess of several thousands, to continue up to a given day in November. The question then came to this—the men being actually there, how were they to be made to appear not to be there? The hon. Gentleman said that a certain number of them were in gaol.
 MR. T. G. BARING  begged the right hon. Gentleman's pardon. He simply stated that under the ordinary regulations of the service pay was not issued to the men when in gaol.
 MR. HENLEY : The hon. Gentleman stated that 1,500 men of Her Majesty's army were in gaol. If they were not in gaol, he supposed there would be no deductions made. Did the hon. Gentleman mean to say that this number of men who were in gaol were in excess of the average number in the army who were usually in that position? He also wished to know if the body of 4,000 men to be recruited for the artillery service in India were included in
 976
 SIR GEOEGE LEWIS  said, he could not at present give any explanation in regard to the supply of Bibles to the array, but he would do so on the Report. With regard to the stoppages, the supposition formerly was that the fixed sum of 10 d
 MR. WHITE  said, he really wished that his hon. Friend the Member for Lambeth, had moved the reduction of this Vote by 10,000 men. The right hon. Gentleman had stated that £5,000,000 was formerly the total sum required for the army, and that subsequently to the French war £10,000,000 was required. After the Crimean war the sum needed was £15,000,000, and he supposed if they had been so unfortunate as to have gone to war with America, according to the law of arithmetical progression supported by the right hon. Gentleman, £20,000,000
 973
 COLONEL NORTH  asked the hon. Member, from what part of the army be would make this reduction?
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that the arrangements for the formation of the new regiment were not sufficiently forward to enable him at that moment to answer the question. It rested upon the Commander-in-Chief and the Colonial Secretary. When possessed of the information required, he would communicate it to the House. An hon. Member (Colonel Stuart) had put a question to him with reference to the supply of Bibles to the army, as he found that the item had been struck out in the Estimates. The supply was not to be discontinued, as was apprehended by the hon. Gentleman, but by a change of ar-
 974
 GENERAL PEEL : It appeared, then, that during the course of the present financial year the Indian Government was to pay not only so much per head for all the troops in India, but the additional expense of these 4,000 artillery troops.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  asked, whether they would be for general or local service?
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  asked, whether they would be liable to service in Europe?
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the hon. and gallant Gentleman who had moved the reduction of the Vote called the appointment "a job," and stated that the position had been created for a noble Lord who had formerly served in the Guards. Of course it was very easy, when a person was appointed to a new office, to say that the office was made for the individual. But Lord Rokeby was not now Brigadier General of the Guards, but General Crawford; and if the office had been created simply for Lord Rokeby, he presumed it would have been abolished when he vacated the office. At all events, the question was whether there existed any public ground for the appointment? He (Sir George Lewis) had no reason to believe that the office had been created for the individual. 979
 GENERAL LINDSAY  said, he had had the honour of serving under both systems, and he was bound to say that he considered the appointment as an improvement. He could not, however, agree with the Secretary of State with regard to what had occurred
 980
 COLONEL GILPIN  said, he did not concur in the statement of the right hon. Gentleman that the discipline of the Guards was such as required this general officer to be placed over them. At the same time, he did not see why the same rule should not apply to the Guards as to other corps, and therefore he could not support the Amendment, though he thought it would be better if the command of the General in question were to extend to the whole London district, and indeed he did exercise a command over the 3rd Line Regiment now in the Tower.
 MAJOR KNOX , in pursuance of notice, rose to move the redaction of the Vote by £1,038 14 s d 977 Hansard "He (General Upton) was of opinion that, as far as the discipline of the Guards was concerned, that officer was not required. The Guards got on quite as well before the appointment of a Major General as it did afterwards."—[3  Hansard 978
 MR. WHITE  asked, whether the men had any share in the increase of £7,000 under the head of "Field Allowances?"
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, they were allowances made under the authority of a Royal warrant to officers serving in the field.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the disposition of the War Department was to deal liberally with the troops. He could not say that his attention had been called to this particular stoppage; but he would make further inquiry, and if it still existed, he would take care the matter should be considered.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  explained that the item of £3,000 for religions books, included in the Army Estimates for last year, did not appear in these Estimates for this year, as the books would in future he supplied by the Stationery Office. The item would appear in the Miscellaneous Estimates, which were not yet printed.
 COLONEL GILPIN  said, they had been told that this would be an inexpensive force; but the expenses were increasing from year to year. The expenses for powder were increased, and additional clerks were employed in the War Office, so that the whole of the expenses of the Volunteers were not set forth in this Vote. If this charge were to be increased year alter year, it would be a matter for the consideration of the House whether it would not he better to lay out the money on troops that would be efficient for every purpose. He never thought it likely that the services of the Volunteers would be required, and the chance of their being called upon was now more remote than ever, He had no doubt that, under able officers, the Volunteers would do their duty, and prove able assistants to the militia and regular troops.
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  observed, that in the total sum to be voted for Volunteers £88,779 was put down for the Yeomanry Cavalry. The Vote now before the Committee amounted to upwards of £211,000, but the Volunteers did not receive more than £122,887. He found that the yeomanry cost £6 5 s s
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  disclaimed any intention to disparage the yeomanry.
 LORD ADOLPHUS VANE TEMPEST  said, he had recently received a circular giving an account of a great meeting held in Glasgow to solicit from Government some additional assistance for the Volunteers. The Glasgow Volunteers made out a very strong case, and he hoped Ministers would give a favourable consideration to their representations. He thought it would be well if a capitation grant of so much per head were given to the Volunteer corps, the amount to be awarded after an annual inspection.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : Materials do exist of giving the information pointed out by the noble Lord, and if he is desirous of obtaining it in the form of a return, I will take care that he is furnished with the best information the War Office can supply. With regard to this Vote, the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Selwyn) says it is inconvenient to combine the Yeomanry and the Volunteers in one Vote; but such has been the practice, and it is always better to keep Votes in the same form, unless some strong reason is given to the contrary, because comparison is thus more easy. The reason for the combination is that the Yeomanry is simply a Volunteer force, and, upon the whole, it seems desirable to take the two Votes together. Unless you wish to abolish the Yeomanry altogether, I do not know that it could be more economically conducted than it is at this moment. With regard to the Volunteers, two courses of objection have been taken. Some think the cost too high, others that it is not sufficiently high. As to those who think the cost too much, I have to state that the increase is not considerable, and it is entirely owing to certain additional charges introduced in consequence very much of the discussions that took place last Session. There is an addition on the Staff in the number of sergeant-instructors for drilling the Volunteer corps, and the increase on the various heads is so moderate that I thing the Committee will have no difficulty in agreeing to it. But then it is also said that there ought to be a capitation for the Volunteer corps, and that,
 986
 COLONEL KNOX  thought that the arrangement entered into last year with regard to the Yeomanry was fair and satisfactory, and that the sum granted by the Government was amply sufficient for all purposes. The Yeomanry officers, also, thought it would ill become them to ask for this pay when the officers of Volunteer corps were serving gratuitously, and making such sacrifices besides. It was hard, however, that Adjutants of the Yeomanry force should be entitled to no retiring allowances in case the corps broke up of its own accord.
 LORD ADOLPHUS VANE TEMPEST  said, he did not wish to advocate that payments should be made to Volunteers, but that some assistance should be given to them in respect to their clothing and accoutrements. It had become now extremely difficult to maintain the force. The novelty of the thing was passing, the excitement was lessening, and, as the time for getting new uniforms came on, they looked for some assistance. He was quite willing that the assistance should be on results.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  called attention to the sum of £3,000 for the payment of clerks of the lieutenancy, who were amply remunerated by the Volunteers.
 MR. HENNESSY  believed that the measure was unnecessary, it being quite competent for the Queen in Council, at this moment, to do all that it proposed to accomplish.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  admitted that the matter was not one of any very great moment; but the Bill was intended to remove doubts as to the legal position of officers of the army, with respect to which it was undesirable that any uncertainty should exist.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, the Volunteer force did certainly look for encouraging treatment and mention from the Government and the House. He did not ask for any capitation grant; but they might have some help—for example, in providing butts.
 MR. KINNAIRD  drew attention to the increase in the hospital expenses for the item of medicines and surgical instruments: the increase was from £15,000 to £40,000 for the next year.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he would beg to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government, Whether he has received any confirmation of the report that Baron Ricasoli had resigned, and that Signor Ratazzi had been sent for by the King of Italy?
 VISCOUNT ENFIELD  wished for some explanation of this Vote, which had increased to its present amount from £163,276.
 GENERAL UPTON  admitted, that he still retained the opinion that the office was not necessary for the discipline of the Guards; but when the appointment was first made, persons high in authority said it was for the purpose of relieving the Adjutant General of a variety of business which was imposed on him. That was his justification for not voting against the continuance of this command. He thought the country might be very well served by this new officer, if they extended to him further duties, from which, he was credibly informed, the Adjutant General would be happy to be relieved.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : It was re-voted in the next year.
 LORD LOVAINE  was understood to ask for detailed information as to the exact numbers of the Volunteer corps, if it could be supplied from official sources.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he was sure the House would be thankful to the right hon. and gallant General (General Peel), and also to the hon. Baronet the Member for Stamford (Sir Stafford North-cote) for having called attention to this difficult and important subject. It showed their zeal as financial reformers; because on all hands it was admitted that the Army and Navy accounts were the most correct and the most strictly kept of all the public accounts. That, therefore, was the most unfavourable ground that a financial reformer could take up. The inference which must, however, be drawn from this was, that it required a much less knowledge to make a successful attack on the miscellaneous accounts and the other Estimates. He was, however, not about to enlarge on that point at present, because that was the subject of the Motion that he should bring on next week, in virtue of the notice which he had given on the 11th of February. He desired, however, to remove a few of the prejudices that might be raised in the minds of hon. Members by the speech of the hon. and gallant General. The first thing he said was that he objected to a Committee of that House being appointed for the examination of the Estimates. Now, that had been a constitutional practice of a very old date. Committees had been appointed frequently in former years for the examination of the Estimates, and the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer last year said that the only way of meeting the wishes of the House—the only mode of fulfilling the recommendations of the Public Monies Committee—was to appoint a Committee, to be annually appointed in that House, to take into consideration the Army and Navy Estimates. [Mr. PEEL: The Accounts, not the Estimates.] He was nearly certain that the right hon. Gentleman said "Estimates." He was not, however, sure that this was the case. The thing to be considered, the right hon. Gentleman below (General Peel) had said, was whether the audit of the accounts could he expedited, and that ques-
 948 949
 LORD WILLIAM GRAHAM  said, that last year, in Committee on the Army Estimates, he had called attention to the difficulty of ascertaining the sum total required for any particular colony. He begged to thank the right hon. Gentleman
 954
 MR. AYRTON  said, the hon. Baronet, and his hon. and gallant Friend who had just sat down, objected originally to the amalgamation of the two services, and it was but natural that they should now object to the amalgamation of the accounts. But the Government, be thought, would have exposed themselves to serious animadversion if, after combining the Indian and English services, they had kept the
 932
 MR. LAYARD  said, it appeared that an officer named Myers, of the steamer  Sumter
 MR. LAYARD  in reply said, that a representation had been made by the Italian Government to the Home Government as to the affair mentioned by the hon. Gentleman—namely, the outrage and insult to the persons and dwellings of the Italian Consul, Signor Fabrizzi, and other Italian subjects in Malta, by persons who were supposed to be Neapolitan and Sicilian refugees. Inquiries were directed to be made. They had not yet heard the result, but of course every step would be
 913
 MR. BUXTON  said, he could bear his testimony strongly to the truth of the statement made by the hon. Member for Marylebone (Mr. H. Lewis), that very
 985 prestige
 MR. SELWYN  suggested, that in future the charge for the Volunteers should be separated from that for the Yeomanry, for the two forces were not identical in character. It appeared to him that the
 984
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that in due time they would be relieved and be liable to serve in England or anywhere else
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, for general service. The new batteries would be formed out of the remains of the local Artillery, and the men to be sent out in substitution of Natives.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  answered in the affirmative.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : In reply to the questions of hon. Gentlemen, I may state that the old practice was that the moment an English regiment was put upon the Indian establishment the whole expenses Connected with that regiment were transferred to the Indian revenue. The payment of the regiment in India was made in India, and all the charges in respect of it payable in this country were paid by the War Office, and repaid by the Indian Government. The payment for these charges had been commuted into a sum of £10 per head, which included not only the cost of recruiting and training, but covered tinder the term "&c." all other items of charge whatever (which were too many to be enumerated) incurred in this country in respect of a regiment in India. The War Office has no interest in keeping down this expense; while, on the other hand, the Indian Government—which, being charged with the payment, has such an interest—has no means of keeping it down. The consequence is that much disagreeable correspondence has been going on between the two departments; and to that state of things it is desirable to put an end. A Committee was appointed, as my right hon. Friend has said, of which Sir Alexander Tulloh was chair-
 938
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that the muster-roll of the army in India was taken every month, and that the twelfth part of £10, the annual sum charged for each man against the Indian Government, or 16s. 8d. was paid to the War Office for every man who was on the list.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, with regard to the portion of the troops in India referred to, they were a separate establishment. They were the Royal Artillery, but to be used for special purposes—namely, to take the place of the Native Artillery, who were to be discontinued. A special arrangement had been made with the Indian Government that a certain number of men for that object, for whom India was to pay, was to be raised. It was not right to employ to a large extent the Native Artillery.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  replied, that although it was in fact an annual arrangement, it would be continued for another year. Practically it was intended to continue for five years and then to be revised.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : All promotions in the Indian army are by seniority.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he did not think it was desirable to lay on the table the Report alluded to by the hon. and gallant Gentleman. It was the Report of a Commission appointed by the Indian Government. The Indian Government disapproved the Report; and all the Home Government had done was to concur in disallowing the recommendations of the Commission. The Government of India thought that a smaller retirement was desirable, and a retirement of such a character had, in the mean time, been made out by the Home Government. Their scheme was for the retirement of Lieutenant Colonels, Majors, and Captains, to the number of 300 in all. Up to the date of the last accounts, 122 Lieutenant Colonels, 83 Majors, and 30 Captains had accepted the proposal, and the Government had reason to believe that the full number of 300 would avail themselves of the retirement. The hon. and gallant Gentleman had also asked him as to the number of promotions. One-half the vacant Lieutenant Colonelcies, and the whole of the vacancies in the rank of Major and in that of Captain would be filled by promotion. There had been 59 promotions to the rank of Lieutenant Colonel, consequent on the 122 retirements; 83 to that of Majors—equal to number of retirements; and 30 to that of Captain, the same as the number of retirements. It would thus be seen that there had been 235 retirements and 172 promotions. The Government had reason to believe that there would be 65 more retirements of Captains; and, if so, there would be 65 promotions.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  begged to reply to the observations of the hon. Gentleman, and he trusted that the statement he had to make would prove satisfactory. It had been asked what change had been
 924 925
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  observed, that a monthly muster-roll of the Indian army was sent home every month, and payments were to be made once a mouth to the Exchequer from Indian funds.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would now beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether information has been received that the Captain of the  Sumter Tusco rora;
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether information has been received that great outrage and insult was offered to the dwellings and persons of the Italian Consul and of Signor Fabrizzi, Deputy to the Italian Parliament, and other Italian gentlemen, on the occasion of the fete of St. Paul, at Malta, on the 9th and 10th February, the authors of which were presumed to be Neapolitan and Sicilian Bourbon refugees; whether the Italian Consul had previously communicated the expectation of such outrage to the Government of Malta, and had received assurances of protection for himself and his countrymen; and if so, whether means will be 'taken by the Home Government to prevent in future such an abuse of the privilege of asylum accorded to those persons upon British territory?
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, it would be recollected that in the early part of the disturbance in America a question arose how far it would be our duty to protect
 952 Great Eastern Trent
 LORD FERMOY  said, he was an advocate for economy, but he must say he could not understand why they strained at the Volunteer gnat after having swallowed the expensive camel of the regular service. He thought the Government should contribute something to the rifle ranges and butts. The expense of this
 988
 MR. G. W. HOPE  said, that as there was to be an additional West India regiment, he wished to remind the Secretary of State that the Committee on Colonial Military Expenditure had evidence before them of the great superiority of the African over the West Indian blacks. Could the right hon. Gentleman state where the regiment was to be raised?
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the want of system which prevails in relieving Her Majesty's Troops serving in India and in the Colonies. In the first place, he was anxious to remind the House that two years ago a Bill Was passed for amalgamating the Indian army with the Royal Army; and that on that occasion the House abolished the system of governing the Indian army that at that time prevailed. Whatever might have been the inherent defects of that system, the army of India had achieved great conquests and won great glory under its auspices on every field of battle, and had won for Her Majesty the most extensive and most magnificent empire on the face of the globe. The House took upon itself to abolish the system under which the army had accomplished those deeds, by introducing a Bill at the end of the Session, which passed through its various stages with a very small attendance of Members. The truth was, the House did not appreciate the importance of the subject, nor did it recognise an important feature of the Bill—namely, that it effected a great change in the nature of the service of the Royal Army. Previous to the Indian rebellion the Royal Army was only called on to furnish 20,000 men. After the passing of the Bill the Royal Army was called on to furnish 80,000 men. That was a great change in the nature of the service of the Royal Army. Practically it reduced the Royal Army to the condition of a colonial army. All that might be for the good of the army—he did not wish to enter into that question—but it should not have been carried into effect until the Government had been able to give full and ample ex-
 917 918 919 920 921 922 923
 MAJOR EDWARDS  appreciated too highly the inestimable services the Volunteers had already rendered to their country to say one word in their disparagement. On the contrary, so much was he impressed with the value of the force in a national point of view, that he attributed in a great measure to its existence their present peaceful relations with the other Powers of Europe. He maintained that England was under the deepest obligation to that fine body of men who had volunteered their services in defence of their Queen and country in the hour of need, and the obligation was universally acknowledged. On the other hand, he trusted the services of the Yeomanry were equally appreciated, and that no hon. Member would intentionally disparage that force. It was certainly true, as the hon. Member for Marylebone had stated, that the Yeomanry cost £6 5 s s
 MAJOR EDWARDS  bad not the most remote idea that the Volunteer Vote could have come on this evening, and this no doubt was the reason why so few members of that force were present to take part in this discussion. He could only say that the reduction of the pay of Yeomanry officers, when on Permanent Duty, to the level of the privates had caused the greatest dissatisfaction—not so much as a matter of £  s. d 987
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the Bill was to be referred to a Select Committee, in which, if the hon. Member would lend his assistance, his suggestions would no doubt be duly considered.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : It was not deducted.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I rise to answer the appeal made by the right hon. Gentleman, and I am not at all sorry he has made it, because, as this is a novel arrangement, it is quite right the subject should be discussed in this House, and that hon. Members should obtain a clear view of the grounds on
 934 935 936
 MR. BUCHANAN  bore testimony to the general prevalence of the feeling among Volunteer officers and others, that unless something were speedily done by the Government to aid the force, a large diminution in its numbers must be expected to take place.
 MR. WENTWORTH BEAUMONT  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether, with a view of relieving the crowded state of Park Lane, there will be any objection to open Hyde Park, between Stanhope Gate and Apsley Gate, for the passage of cabs while the International Exhibition is open?
 MR. DEEDES  asked, whether the muster-roll necessarily conveyed the amount required?
 MR. DEEDES  should like to have more clearly pointed out by what means the British Exchequer was to be so quickly repaid the advances.
 MR. W. EWART  wished to know why gardens should not be allowed at the camps, as at the camp of the French army at Châlons? He thought that reading rooms and gymnasiums should be established generally, as at Canterbury and other places, which had produced the best possible effect on the men stationed there.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  feared that unless some assistance in the refitment of Volunteers, when the present uniform was worn out the numbers would fall off for want of means. He did not think that any addition should be made to the Vote, or that the Volunteers should be paid; but he would suggest that in future years some assistance might be given in refitting the men, upon the principle of paying only for results, and only granting such an allowance in the case of effectives, say, at the end of three years' service.
 Mr. MASSEY  in the Chair.
 CAPTAIN STACPOOLE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Why the 3rd, 4th, 13th, and 14th late Light Dragoons were changed into Hussars, and whether there is any difference in the weight of their appointments; also if the Officers have received, or will receive, any compensation in consequence of the expense they have been put to by the change of uniform, and if the men of those regiments have or will receive any compensation in lieu of their old clothing?
 COLONEL STUART  asked, what were the hospital stoppages, and whether in future any religious books would be supplied to the army? Last year £3,000 was taken in the Estimates for the purpose; but this year the sum had been struck out of them.
 COLONEL SYKES  inquired, whether 83,523 was the told force on the East Indian establishment, including all the depots in Great Britain?
 COLONEL SYKES  asked, why so many
 970
 COLONEL SYKES  rose to second the Motion. In the present year there were 75,899 European troops in India, and 7,629 belonging to the regiments in India in depot here making about 83,500 men. A capitation of £10 upon that number would yield a sum of £835,000; and allowing £3 10s. for the non effective service, this would give a sum of £1,132,500 transferred from India annually, and put into the English Exchequer. He thought the hon. Baronet was right in saying that the House ought to have there accounts separately, and ought to be able to trace what became of the money. When the mutiny broke out, in 1857, there were not 45,000 European troops in all India, and there were not 12,000 in active employ against the 100,000 veteran Bengal sepoys. When Oude was in rebellion, and many Native Princes were hostile, nevertheless that small body of men crushed the mutiny before the arrival of reinforcements from Europe, and in testimony of this he would read to the House the general order of the Governor General, dated the 5th November, 1857—
 "Before a single soldier of the many thousands who are hastening from England to uphold the supremacy of the British power has set foot on these shores, the rebel force, where it was strongest and most united, and where it had the command of unbounded military appliances, has been destroyed or scattered by an army collected within the limits of the North Western Provinces and the Punjaub alone. The work has been done before the support of those battalions which have
 931
 COLONEL SYKES : £10 per head—that is, on the total number of troops in the Estimate?
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, it was remarkable what coincidences of opinion were to be found between Gentlemen who were in office and Gentlemen who expected to be in office. The right hon. and gallant Gentleman who had been Secretary for War
 945 946 947
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he felt strongly disposed to propose a reduction of the force asked in this Vote, but he was aware he should receive no support from the Committee. The standing army and the auxiliary forces of different kinds, and the army in our various dependencies,
 972
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  called attention to a charge of £3 per head per annum for clothing to yeoman cavalry, and as they were called out only for a week or fortnight that appeared to him to be an extraordinary charge.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that he bad observed that the cost of the Staff this year was upwards of £14,600 more than that of last year.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  noticed the high price that appeared to be paid for the horses purchased for the Household Cavalry.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he had a few words to address to the House in reference to the Army and Navy Estimates. He believed that the House of Commons possessed ample power of controlling those Estimates, if they would only exercise it. The late Mr. Hume, without one-half of the information which was at present laid before Parliament, was able to control the public expenditure; and if he (Sir Francis
 953
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  urged several objections to the measure, which he conceived was calculated to produce difficulties rather than remove them.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY : Precisely.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  believed the light hon. Gentleman was in considerable error as to the impossibility of troops being employed without the cognizance of Parliament. It would be found that during the Chinese war a regiment had been employed through the agency of the Commissariat chest.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  wished to know what security the Committee would have, when they bad voted the men, that the number would not be exceeded? Last Session he had shown that an increase had taken place in the number of men over the number voted. The number voted was 146,044, but the actual number on the 1st of June was 152,235. If the Committee would refer to a return which had been published on this subject, they would find that in every mouth from May to November a much larger number of men had been kept up than had been voted by Parliament. Would the right hon. Gentleman state how the consequent increase of pay and allowances was provided for?
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he had given notice of a Resolution which he believed to be in the interest of the taxpayers both in this country and in India, for his objection to the amalgamation scheme was the enormous cost that would he incurred in the transport of the military backwards and forwards. His Motion was to the effect that all monies required for raising and training officers and men for service in India should be voted in that House in a separate Estimate, and repaid into the British exchequer by the Indian Government, and he suggested that the repayment should take place by monthly instalments. His proposition was supported by the highest authority, and was founded, he believed, on common sense. It had been his intention to have brought the subject before the House last Session; but he was advised by the late Sir James Graham, whom he had the honour of consulting, to wait to see if any action in respect to the matter would be taken by the Government. It had been proved that the accounts in the War Office were not kept in a state of perfection. The hon. and gallant General the Member for Huntingdon (General Peel) had given notice of his intention to make a statement on the want of control on the part of that House over naval and military expenditure, He would not therefore enter into that question now, except to say that it was the clear duty of the House not to add to the difficulties in the War Department, or, by mixing up Indian with British accounts, to render quite unintelligible that which at present was far from being so clear as it ought to be. It was easy to see that the question raised was one of the greatest importance. They had imposed upon the British taxpayer during the last three years for the army a charge of forty-five millions and the greatest confusion had been created by mixing up the Indian and British accounts. The House was now called upon to vote £15,300,000 for the army, and the Estimates for the army
 926 927 928 "To leave out from the word 'That' to the end of the Question, in order to add the words' it is the opinion of this House, that all monies required on account of the raising, training, &c. Officers and Men for Service in India, and all other expenses connected therewith, shall be voted in this House in a separate Estimate; and that all such monies shall be repaid into the British Exchequer by the Indian Government "
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  drew the right hon. Gentleman's attention to the stoppages under which the troops already in Canada had been placed for their winter clothing. The first cost of it varied from £l 18 s s s s s
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  asked, whether they were to understand that the expense of the depots in England was borne under these Estimates, and was to be repaid in a capitation upon the army in India? [The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER: Yes.] Then the smaller the army in India, and the greater the number of these depots, the greater would be the expense to this country, and the smaller the proportion which the Indian Government would have to pay?
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  asked for some explanation of the data on which the £10 per man was reckoned, and hoped that the Report of the Committee to which reference had been made would be laid before the House.
 MAJOR BARTTELOT  suggested that the Government should supply drill-instructors to the various corps, and that the cloth for the uniforms should also be given once in four years.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Her Majesty's Government have received information, which they have reason to believe it authentic, that Baron Ricasoli had tendered his resignation; that that resignation had been accepted; and that Signor Ratazzi had been commissioned by the King to form an Administration.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  thought, that the hon. and gallant Gentleman was under a mistake when he imagined that his right hon. Friend (Sir George Lewis) had spoken disparagingly of the discipline of the Guards before the appointment under discussion was made. His right hon. Friend only stated what had been confirmed by military authorities in that House, that the appointment was a great improvement in organization. Everybody knew—and this might be stated without offence to other branches of the service—that no body of troops were more efficient, and more distinguished for service in action and discipline at home, than the division of the Guards. That body of men was most exemplary in every respect; but it had this defect, if so it might be called, that there did not exist that unity of system with respect to all matters of internal economy which was so important and necessary, and which was secured by the appointment of a General to superintend the whole division, and who had made an improvement in what was excellent before. He hoped, therefore, that the testimony borne by hon. and gallant Gentlemen acquainted with the organization of the
 981
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : In reply to the question put by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Darby Griffith) I have to confirm what he stated—namely, that the reinforcements which Her Majesty's Government thought it right to send to our North American provinces in the course of last summer were represented by Gentlemen on that side of the House as useless, injurious, and impolitic. It was said they ought not to have been sent. I believe that opinion is not now very much entertained. It had been the wish of the Government to send out at that time a larger number; hut, so far from that larger number having been asked for by the colonial authorities, it was in consequence of the representations made by the Colonial authorities that the sending of that larger number was for the time suspended; therefore it was not at all owing to any want of foresight on the part of the Government that a larger number was not sent at the time; but, as it happened, I believe it was rather fortunate that we did not send that number then, because I think those who have watched the progress of late events must have seen that the energy and rapidity with which a very large force was despatched to Canada in the middle of winter, in spite of all the difficulties that naturally opposed themselves to such a proceeding—that display of promptitude, of vigour and power, on the part of this country, I am convinced tended very greatly to the peaceful and satisfactory solution of the recent difficulties between this country and the United States.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that there was no objection on the part of the War Office; but the assent of the Commanding Officer must be obtained.
 MR. COWPER  replied, that some of the friends of the late Mr. Joseph Locke desired to erect a Statue to his memory, and had offered to place one in the vacant space near the end of Great George Street, provided that such a site could be appropriated for the purpose; but it had become his duty to state to those gentlemen that he was unable to offer them the site to which they alluded.
 MR. LOCKE KING  said, that he begged to move the second reading of this Bill.
 MR. LOCKE KING : I am willing to allow the hon. Gentleman ample opportunity for discussing the Bill, and I will fix the Committee for Tuesday next.
 MR. LOCKE KING  said, he did not see why he should be compelled to fix Wednesday.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman's attention had been called to the last Report of the Committee on Public Accounts, in which it was stated that the system of auditing the Public Accounts was very unsatisfactory, and that while that system continued such, a Committee would be a delusion and a blind.
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, that he rose for the purpose of calling the attention of the House to the Report of the Select Committee of last Session upon Colonial Military Expenditure. It would be recollected that that Committee was instructed to inquire and report whether any and what alterations might be advantageously adopted in regard to the defence of the British Dependencies, and the proportions of cost of such defence as now defrayed from Imperial and Colonial funds respectively. That Committee had been very impartially selected, and comprised many hon. Members who had devoted much attention to the subject. The question being at once of a financial, colonial, and military nature, the heads of the Colonial Department, the Secretary for War, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the Inspector General of Fortifications, and other experienced witnesses (among them Lord Grey and several gentlemen who had held office under Home and Colonial Governments), had been examined, and all the attainable evidence which appeared to have any bearing upon the question had been taken by the Committee. The result was, that a Report was presented to the House which, in all its main recommendations, he might say, had been unanimously adopted. There were, of course, some special recommendations which were not agreed to altogether unanimously. That report was now on the table of the House. Before alluding to the Motion which stood in his name, and which was founded on the recommendations of that Committee, he might be allowed to disclaim the imputations which had been too freely cast upon those hon. Members who had thought it their duty to take any active part in reducing our colonial military expenditure. It had been said that those who, whether in or out of Parliament, ventilated this question, in which the Dependencies and the
 1033 1034 1035 1036 every 1037 1038
 MR. LAYARD  said, that the circumstances under which the unfortunate Dr. M'Carthy had been murdered were well known. Immediately after the attack on him, the murderer and his accomplices were arrested. He would avail himself of the present opportunity to contradict a report which he had seen in the public press, to the effect that there had been an omission in not taking the murderer into the presence of Dr. M'Carthy that he might be identified. It had been proposed to adopt that course, but the public authorities at Pisa considered that there had been a sufficient identification, and they did not wish to put Dr. M'Carthy to the pain which such a proceeding might cause him. Immediately after the murder was made known to Baron Ricasoli he expressed himself in such a manner as those who knew him might have expected. The English residents at Florence and Pisa met soon after the occurrence. Their proceedings were characterized by an excitement which, under the circumstances, was, perhaps, but natural. However, the Italian authorities had done everything that was to have been expected. The prisoners had been sent to Lucca, where they would be tried and, no doubt, punished as they deserved. The memorials referred to by the hon. Gentleman had already been published; and he did not think it necessary to lay them on the table. No representations to the Italian Government were necessary, as they had shown their readiness to act with efficiency in this melancholy affair.
 MR. LAYARD  regretted to say that the circumstances mentioned by the hon. Gentleman had been proved. Captain Dini and his Lieutenant, feeling them selves aggrieved by some articles that had appeared in the  Portafoglio Maltese,
 MR. BUXTON  said, he rose to second the Motion. He was glad that the hon. Member for Taunton had repudiated so distinctly, on the part of the Select Committee of last Session, any feeling in favour of the dismemberment of our Colonial Empire. In endeavouring to weigh
 1039 1040 1041 1042 1043 1044
 MR. NEWDEGATE  wished to say, that as the hon. Gentleman had stated that he had put his question partly on his authority, he would excuse him for saying that although he was prepared to abide by all that he had ever stated on the subject of Maynooth, and although he would not dispute the grounds on which the hon. Gentleman had put his question, yet he knew nothing of the matter that the hon. Gentleman had brought before the House.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  replied, that the Lord Advocate was in communication with the Poor Law authorities on the subject, and such a Bill would be brought in.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, that Her Majesty's Government en-
 1049 1050 1051 "It is hard in our days to realize the life of terror and watchfulness led by the pioneers of our American enterprise for some generations, while the slowly-receding forest around them was the abode of watchful and implacable foes— "'With dreadful faces through, and fiery arms.'" 1052 1053
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, that if the hon. Gentleman thought that in a great emergency like that which had lately occurred it was wrong to incur the expense of sending troops to Canada, he was at liberty to urge that view. He (Mr. Fortescue), however, knew that such was not his (Mr. Baxter's) opinion. He repeated, then, that the expenditure on account of British colonies properly so called, including the exceptional cases of the Cape and New Zealand, was no more than £ 1,000,000. He did not state those facts for the purpose of showing that the colonies ought not to be called upon to contribute their fair share to the cost of their defence, but only to show that the present Imperial charges on their account were far smaller than they were often supposed to be. He believed that our colonies evinced no lack of spirit when occasion arose to provide against enemies, whether external or internal. It had been said lately by a few able men that those colonies ought to be left, like our early American settlements, to fight their own battles against foreign foes, and that no assistance ought to be rendered to them by the mother country. There had, in his opinion, been considerable misconception on that subject. He believed that if the circumstances of our modern colonies were the same as those of the early American settlements, the conduct of the colonists
 1054 1055
 MR. MACEVOY  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether any information has been received that, previous to the late
 1025 Portafoglio Maltese, Mozambano,
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said,
 1024
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he had not alluded to the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken, but to the other hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner).
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he rose merely
 1032
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he trusted the House would allow him to avail himself of that opportunity to put the question which stood in his name on the paper, and which was, to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland whether he took any and what means to
 1028 Cries of Nation. 1029 Cries of Renewed cries of laughter Cries of and laughter "Columbia's banner floats on high, Her eagle seizes on its prey; Then Erin wipes her tearful eye, And cheers her hopes on Patrick's Day." "The toast we give is Albion's fall, And Erin's pride on Patrick's Day." 1030
 MR. BRUEN  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether there is any objection to provide a place of recreation for the Officers and Soldiers at the Curragh Camp, by inclosing a suitable piece of ground for a Cricket Ground, in such a manner as to prevent Artillery and Cavalry from crossing it?
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he wished to express his satisfaction with the Resolution, and to thank the hon. Member for having brought before the House a proposition so moderate and one so likely to conduce to the advantage both of the colonies and the mother country. He begged to give his cordial assent to the Resolution.
 MR. SPEAKER : —The explanation must be confined to anything which the hon. Member has said himself. He must not reply to the hon. Gentleman.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE :—Sir, I will say nothing about the good taste which has induced the hon. Member for Peterborough (Mr. Whalley) to drag before the House any Address of Condolence offered to Her Most Gracious Majesty. Sir, that is a matter which the hon. Gentleman will settle between himself and his followers,
 1031
 MR. COLLINS : I move, Sir, that the House be counted.
 MR. COLLINS : No, that will not do. Unless the hon. Gentleman fixes Wednesday, I shall be under the necessity of counting him out now.
 MR. COLLINS  said, he must oppose the Motion, unless the hon. Gentleman would fix the next stage for a Wednesday, when it could be fully discussed.
 MR. HALIBURTON  said, he did not rise to take any part in the discussion, but rather to express his deep regret that such a subject had been submitted to the consideration of the House at that time. In the first place, he thought the time selected for the discussion was most inopportune. In the second place, he looked upon the Resolution of the hon. Member for Taunton as delusive in its object, The hon. Gentleman might have read his Resolution without any observations, St spoke for itself, and was in effect a mere corroboration of the present practice. No colonist asked to be relieved from an obligation founded in the nature of things and common sense, and therefore he was at a loss to conceive why the subject was introduced at all, except as a peg for the hon. Mover of the Resolution on which to hang an interesting speech. But, in addition to the Resolution, they had the Amendment of the hon. Member for Montrose. Now, it appeared to him (Mr. Haliburton) that that was a singularly inopportune time for such a declaration. He begged to remind the House that this country had only just escaped a war with the United States on a subject entirely of Imperial interest. An insult had been offered to the flag of England. One of her ships had been boarded and temporarily seized, and four persons who were sailing under the protection of our Bag had been captured and held as prisoners. That was clearly an Imperial question. Further than that no other parties had any interest in the matter. How did the people of Canada behave under the circumstances? The conduct of the colonists of Canada on that occasion, in then relations to this country, was beyond all praise. Even sectarians had combined, and had risen as one man for the defence of their country. At such a time, with such exertions, it was rather inopportune to turn round and begin now to discuss
 1058 1059 s s s 1060 Cries of
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that whatever recommendations as to the audit of accounts depended on the action of the Government had been adopted. With respect to prospective improvements, he thought that the appointment of the Committee on Public Accounts from year to year would be the best method of insuring their adoption.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the recommendations of the Committee on Public Monies, appointed in 1856, were very varied and very numerous, but he did not think there was any one of them which the Treasury could be disposed on principle to dissent from But as his hon. Friend had asked him the question, he might state to the House the position in which those recommendations stood—which of them had been applied in practice, and which of them had not been carried fully into effect. He would also embrace in his answer the recommendations of the Committee on Public Accounts, which last Committee was itself the off spring, through the intervention of the
 1026
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I did not express myself in my former answer with sufficient clearness; but when I stated that the Committee on Public Accounts was the offspring of the Committee on Public Monies, I meant to imply all that my right hon. Friend has alluded to. I think the annual Select Committee on Public Accounts is an essential part of the duty of this House in voting the public money.
 MR. BAXTER : I never for one moment intended to leave the colonists entirely to themselves.
 MR. BAXTER  asked whether any account was taken of the force in Canada?
 MR. BAXTER  said, that after the clear and able speech of his hon. Friend the Member for Taunton, he would not say a single word on that branch of the question which had been so well brought under the notice of the House. He entirely concurred in the Resolution proposed, and quite agreed that the colonies should have the entire responsibility of their internal defence; but he thought the Resolution of his hon. Friend scarcely went far enough; nor did it grapple with what appeared to him the main grievance brought prominently into view by the report of the Committee. No more important subject could possibly be brought before the public, and, whatever interest might attach to his hon. Friend's Motion now, the subject would by-and-by force itself on the notice of the people. In moving the addition of the Resolution which stood in his name, he wished to refer to the main principle really involved in the discussion, and brought out in the report of the Select Committee. They had reached the turning point in the colonial history of Great Britain, at which they must cautiously and gradually, but steadily, reverse that policy on which they had been acting for a number of years past—the policy which had thrown the primary responsibility of defending the colonies not on themselves but on us. That was a policy in which the people of this country had been induced to acquiesce rather than to approve; and in proportion as our possessions increased in number, in population, and resources,
 1045 "I think that to arrive at a system under which the primary responsibility of self defence by land should be thrown upon the colonists themselves—speaking, of course, of those colonies which are, so to say, normally constituted—would be not only an immense advantage to the British Exchequer, but would have, I think, many still more important and higher recommendations, independently of the question of cost." "You think that any such arrangement, by which the primary responsibility should be thrown upon the colonies, would be advantageous to communities circumstanced as the British colonies are?" "I would almost venture to say, without speaking of cases in which the circumstances are altogether peculiar, that no community which is not primarily charged with the ordinary business of its own defence is really, or can be, in the full sense of the word, a free community. The privileges of freedom and the burdens of freedom are absolutely associated together; to bear the burdens is as necessary as to enjoy the privilege, in
 1046 "I understand your view to be that the fact of the defence of the colonies being undertaken by the parent State has rather an enervating effect upon those colonies, and therefore a mischievous one?—That is my strong opinion. I think that the principle of conjoining burden and benefit is a sound principle, and is equally advantageous to those upon whom the burden is imposed within just limits, and to those from whose shoulders the burden is removed." "Your main object is to diminish the Imperial expenditure in respect to the military defences of the colonies?" "No; my main object is to throw upon the colonists the habit and responsibility of self-defence; it is a secondary but very important object to diminish the Imperial expenditure." 1047 "That the multiplication of fortified places and the erection of fortifications in distant colonial possessions, such as Mauritius, on a scale requiring for their defence a far greater number of men than could be spared for them in the event of war, involve a useless expenditure and fail to provide an efficient protection for places the defence of which mainly depends on superiority at sea." "That the tendency of modern warfare is to strike blows at the heart of a hostile Power, and that it is therefore desirable to concentrate the troops required for the defence of the United Kingdom as much as possible, and to trust mainly to naval supremacy for securing against
 1048 "I totally disapprove of the whole policy of large expenditure upon fortifications in the colonies. The experience we have had of the past seems to me to lead to the conclusion that almost the whole of the money we have spent upon colonial fortifications has been so much absolutely wasted, and that with respect to some of those fortifications, erected at great expense, the wisest thing we could now do would be to blow them up again."
 MR. BAXTER : I beg pardon; I never said anything of the kind. I merely said that in every case the colonies should assist in the defence of the mother country.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether he intends to bring in a Bill this Session relating to the recommendations of the Committee on Public Monies of 1856?
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, that some doubt had arisen, though not in his mind, as to whether it was the intention of the Government to give effect to the recommendation that the Committee on Public Accounts should be appointed annually.
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  said, he wished to ask the President of the Poor Law Board, On what day the Lord Advocate of Scotland will introduce the Bill, as promised last Session, to extend to Scotland the provisions of the: "Act to amend the Law relating to the Removal of Poor Persons to Ireland, 1861"?
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he thought the terms of the hon. Gentleman's Amendment indicated that opinion. At all events, the hon. Gentleman contemplated a vastly more extended scheme than that comprehended by the Resolution of the hon. Member for Taunton. The remarks of the hon. Member for Montrose showed still more clearly what was his meaning. The hon. Gentleman spoke of the possible future independence of the colonies.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  remarked, that the moderate language of his hon. Friend's Resolution was sufficient in itself to recommend it to the House, emanating as it did from the recommendations contained in the Report of the Committee which sat on the subject last Session—a Report which was intended to enforce a policy recommended by no less a personage than Earl Grey. He thought that the Report of the Committee and the Resolution of his hon. Friend might be read in two very different senses, according to the views of persons who entertained different opinions on the matter. They might be accepted by those who held with his hon. Friend that the policy of this country ought to be one in the direction of the principle laid down by Earl Grey. The Resolution might be also accepted by the colonists without giving up any portion of what they considered their rights. But taking the Resolution of his hon. Friend as it had been amended by the hon. Member for Montrose, he was afraid that it would be received in a very different sense, and would bear a very different interpretation. The hon. Member for Montrose went much further than either the Report of the Committee or the Resolution of his hon. Friend. The hon. Gentleman had said that the colonists should be left gradually to depend exclusively on themselves, both as regarded the contingencies of internal war and foreign aggression.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he must apologize to the hon. Member for misapprehending his observations; but he
 1056 1057
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he desired to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether any application has been made for permission to erect a Statue of the late Mr. Joseph Locke, in the Gardens near St. Margaret's Church, Westminster, in which the Statue of George Canning is placed; and, if so, whether he has granted or refused his consent thereto?
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  was sure it was unnecessary for the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Newdegate) to disclaim having anything to do with the question before the House. He was not aware that it was the intention of the hon. Gentleman to inaugurate a new debate on Maynooth, but he was prepared to answer his question. He would only say that the Address of Condolence was forwarded from Maynooth to the Home Secretary, and dealt with in the usual manner. The rumours which had reached the hon. Gentleman had not come to his ears, and he had no reason to doubt the loyalty of the students of Maynooth. In proof of the authenticity of the Address of Condolence, he held in his hand a letter from Dr. Russell, written from St. Patrick's College, and addressed to his right hon. Friend the Home Secretary—
 "I have the honour to transmit to you by this post the dutiful Address of the Scholars of the College to Her Gracious Majesty the Queen—an Address of Condolence on the death of the Prince Consort, and to request that you will present it to Her Majesty on their behalf."
 VISCOUNT CASTLEROSSE  said, that as one of the trustees of the College of Maynooth, he protested against the language just used by the hon. Member (Mr. Whalley), and he had to state that the statements contained in that anonymous letter which the hon. Gentleman had just read were quite untrue. He had the best reason for making the assertion that the statements in that letter were not founded on fact.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, according to our usual custom this House would not meet to-morrow, being Ash Wednesday, until two o'clock. I understand that the Orders of the Day which were on the paper for to-morrow have all been postponed until another day, and therefore, as there is no public business that requires this House to meet to-morrow, it would probably be more convenient to the House, when it adjourns to-day, that it should adjourn until Thursday. Committees on private business, however, will meet, notwithstanding the adjournment of the House. I will therefore move that this House at its rising do adjourn until Thursday.
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for War a question with respect to the manner in which certain troops were set down in the Army Estimates. His question had reference to a Vote which had already passed. Early in the Session he obtained a Return which be had expected would have shown the number of men on the British and Indian establishments respectively; but the Return did not afford him the desired information. However he had hoped that, in reply to questions
 1065
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he was not prepared to answer this minute question at that moment. He could only state his impression that those men were in eluded in the numbers already voted; but if the right hon. and gallant Gentleman would have the kindness to allow him to answer the question on a future night, he should, no doubt, be able to do so in a satisfactory manner.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he hoped to be able to state some day in the following week the course which the Government intended to pursue with reference to education in Scotland.
 COLONEL KNOX  said, that a vote of £15,000 had been taken in the last year for Sandhurst. A pledge had been given that that Vote should not be used until the Military Education scheme had been laid on the table. That scheme had not been laid on the table, but he was afraid the money had been spent.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : Sir, I will first answer the question of the noble Lord (Lord William Graham). There is appended to the Estimate a statement with regard to the military expenditure of the colonies, and of the amount included in the Army Estimates of 1862–3, the probable sum to be repaid by the colonies. That is framed according to the best information the Government could obtain. The noble Lord asks, I presume, why the Government have not presented an account of the expenditure in the year ending April 1st next.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : No doubt that account could be furnished. But it was thought that the account appended to the Estimate would give a more satisfactory view of the question for decision in the Committee of Supply. Whether the account ending March 31, last year, to which the noble Lord refers, is ready, I do not know, but I will inquire. If it is, I have no objection to lay it on the table. The account, however, now appended to the Estimates will put the Committee in possession of all that is material in regard to the present Vote. 1070 1071
 LORD ADOLPHUS VANE TEMPEST  said, he trusted the opinions expressed on
 1072
 MAJOR KNOX  said, it appeared that a new office had been created, that of assistant solicitor at a salary of £825 a year. He should like to know the object of such an appointment, as it might reasonably be supposed that one solicitor would be sufficient; and also why thirty-seven additional clerks had been employed. There was also a great number of temporary messengers and doorkeepers employed. He thought those appointments would be well bestowed on well-conducted non-commissioned officers and soldiers of the Guards, who had a great deal of spare
 1073
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the reason why the law charges were heavier that year than usual, and why it had been necessary to appoint an assistant solicitor was the great increase of legal business consequent upon the fortifications that had been undertaken, and the investigation of titles. The Fortification Vote, which amounted to a large sum, was placed under the administration of the War Office, and that circumstance added materially to the business of that department. There were many other causes which of late years had increased the duties of the War Office—for example, the correspondence with the Volunteers; but the reason which had made it necessary to increase the legal staff was, as he had stated, the investigation of titles. The office of the Assistant Under Secretary, who died in the course of last year had not been filled up; and in the upper branches of the office there had not been any increase.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he could say from experience that the naval captain referred to was a very valuable and efficient public officer, and extremely competent to discharge the duties connected with his appointment. With regard to the number of clerks the increase was apparent, not real, owing to the conversion of temporary clerks into permanent clerks, in consequence of opinions expressed by various Members in that House and of the recommendation of the commission of last year. He did not think that he had made an appointment of temporary messenger since he had been in office, though he had converted temporary into permanent messengers. Still, the suggestion of the gallant Major (Major Knox) should receive attention the first time that he (Sir George Lewis) had occasion to appoint a temporary messenger.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he would point out that, according to the terms of the Act of Parliament, the whole of the sum agreed to for the fortifications must be expended on the works, and he therefore doubted whether the War Department had any power to charge the additional expenditure for legal services on the Fortification Vote. But if Government were to act on the principle of charging that expenditure on the Fortification Vote, the services of other officers and clerks in the War Department, whose principal duties were connected with the expenditure of the money provided by the Fortification Vote, ought equally to be charged on the same Vote. He could only say that the increase was a  bonâ fide
 COLONEL DICKSON  intimated his intention to vote for the proposed reduction. The right hon. Secretary for War stated that the reason of the extra expense of £8,000 was because some temporary clerks had been transferred to the permanent establishment; but he found that the decrease on account of temporary clerks amounted to only £4,000.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he thought it would be fairer to charge to the account of the Fortification Vote not only the law expenses, but everything connected with the fortifications to which that Vote applied.
 SIR. GEORGE LEWIS  said, he was proceeding in the course of converting temporary clerks into permanent clerks as fast as possible; but there was some difficulty in effecting the object, in consequence of the rules as to Civil Service examinations, because it would be un-
 1075
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : The hon. Baronet has carried down his readings in military history only to a certain period, and there stopped. He has followed the investigations of the Military Organization Committee, but he does not seem to have read the Report of the Committee to inquire into the Stores Department, which was presented on the 19th of March, 1861, and which was signed, among others, by Mr. Anderson, as representing the Treasury. Mr. Anderson, as every body knows, is an exceedingly acute accountant, and a most excellent, diligent, painstaking public servant; he made a report on this very subject, in which he says that all the defects of which the hon. Baronet spoke have since been rectified. The hon. Baronet does not appear to be aware of that report. I believe that in consequence of that Committee an inquiry has been made into the Woolwich accounts, and they were found perfectly satisfactory. A balance-sheet will now be sent in from every manufacturing establishment, which will be carefully examined. Every parcticable security is taken to see that the Government manufactories are remunerative and the system conducted on a principal of profit. The rule which the War Office follows is not to adopt either Government manufactures or contract manufactures exclusively, but in every case to draw part of their supply from the one source and part from the other, so that the one may serve as a check upon the other. The Government manufactories are found by experience to act as a check upon the contractors; while, on the other hand, the price of the contractors furnishes a guide in ascertaining the remunerativeness of the Government's manufactories. I can only say that the Government establishments, tried by this test, are now worked economically. There is no doubt about the perfect honesty of the persons employed in them, and we believe that there is no waste, and that the system is good. The Government is always aware of the price at which the contractors can supply the same articles, and can there-
 1085
 MR. ELLICE  said, be thought it only fair to his hon. Friend opposite to say that what he had stated was perfectly correct—namely, that the Committee to which reference had been made, and of which he himself had had the honour to be a Member, found all the accounts of these establishments in a considerable state of confusion, not being kept as the accounts of private manufactories were kept, so as to enable the cost of the different articles produced to be ascertained, and to show on what principal that cost was calculated. The Committee also found that money was sent down to these establishments by private channels, and paid into the different local banks, instead of the very obvious rule adopted in the case of all other public establishments being followed—namely, that the money should be paid into the Bank of England to the account of the person who was responsible for its right application, and that the discharge should come in the same way by draughts upon the Bank. He had no doubt, however, that the requisite improvements had already been, or were about to be, adopted, in consequence of the recommendations of the Committee, and the inquiries which subsequently took place under the superintendence of the officers of the Treasury. All that the
 1086
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, he well knew the feeling of the heads of the various departments to which allusion had been made in this discussion, and he was able to say that nothing would give them greater satisfaction than to submit their accounts to any kind of investigation that might be desired at any moment. The hon. Baronet had referred to the Report upon Military Organization, but another report had been presented to the House in consequence of the first. Three gentlemen connected with the Treasury were sent down to Woolwich to inquire into the system of accounts there, and their report was, that they had never seen such faithful, regular, and satisfactory accounts kept anywhere as of those establishments. As to the taking of stock, the hon. Baronet had only to go down to the laboratory or the carriage department the next day, and he would find that the authorities were able to give an account of the stock in every branch. The hon. Baronet bad referred especially to the carriage department as one that could be all but dispensed with, and its work be turned over to the trade. He (Captain Jervis) quite agreed with the principle that Government establishments should generally be only used as checks on the trade; but at the same time they should always be kept in such a condition that Government could fall back upon them in time of need, when the trade failed. For instance, when during the late excitement it was apprehended that additional stores of small-arms would he immediately required, what would have been the ease if the requisition had actually eventuated, and there had been no establishment at Enfield? There would have been no means of sup-
 1087
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that two years previously a Committee on military organization, presided over by no less an authority than the late Sir James Graham, had investigated the whole subject of the constitution of the War Department, and he felt no doubt, that if that Committee were of opinion that any great economy could be introduced into its working, they would have made a recommendation to that effect. He might add that a very large branch of the office—the de-
 1077 1078
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : Before the Committee proceed to the discussion of this vote I think I shall best discharge my duty by giving them a general view of our manufacturing and other establishments connected with the War Office, and also by stating some of the more important results of the operations of those departments. We have at Woolwich a Royal gun factory, a Royal carriage department, a laboratory, the department of the Inspector of Artillery, and what is called the chymical department. At Enfield there is a small-arm factory, and at Pimlico and the Tower establishments for the repair of arms. At Birmingham we have an establishment for the examination of contract small-arms, and at Waltham Abbey there is a Royal gunpowder factory. There is a small laboratory at Portsmouth. At Plymouth there is n similar department, and we have also the establishment belonging to the Elswick Ordnance Company. These are the principal establishments in connection with the War Office. The quantity of arms and stores which they produce is very large. Take the small-arms. Since 1853 the number of small-arms manufactured has been 1,066,586, and there have been issued to the army, militia, volunteers, navy, marines, and other forces.501,321; to the Indian Government, 169,895; and to colonial Governments, 15,000—making a total of 686,216. We have in store at home and abroad 359,695; rendered unserviceable from wear and tear and other casualties, 20,675, which make up the whole number of 1,066,586. 1079 1080 1081 1082
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  observed, he was glad to hear from the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for War, that he had received a Report which led him to believe that the adverse criticisms which had been pronounced upon the Armstrong gun were not borne out by facts. Every one would be rejoiced to hear that statement; but as some strong criticisms had been passed upon that weapon by a very experienced naval officer, the Committee and the country expected and were entitled to have further information. As the Government were now manufacturing monster Armstrongs, it was most important to ascertain whether it really was the best weapon of warfare. The right hon. Baronet had told the Committee that he intended to have a battery of Whitworth guns to be used upon service; but the fact ought to be ascertained beforehand which was the best, and whether there was a better weapon than either. Many ships in the navy were being chiefly armed with Armstrong guns; and if they were liable to become unserviceable in action, the ship would be practically unarmed. He was not at all disposed to think badly of the Armstrong gun—on the contrary, he thought it was an admirable gun; but upon so vital a point there ought to be something beyond mere opinion. With respect to the manufacturing department, he could say from experience that nothing could be more satisfactory than the arrangements at Woolwich, for which state of things the country was largely indebted to the right bon. Member for Limerick (Mr. Monsell). There were some articles, such as gun-carriages, for which they could not trust to private manufacturers, well-seasoned timber being absolutely necessary, and for that article the Government could best rely upon their own resources. The right hon. Baronet had said that Whitworth rifles were to be issued to one regiment; but the best mode of comparison would be to issue half Whitworths and half Enfields to the same regiment, which would enable the officers of such regiment to ascertain the relative qualities of each weapon. This could be merely an experimental arrangement, because, as a general prin-
 1089
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he was quite prepared to answer at once the question as to clothing. The Committee were aware that the workmanship only was supplied by the Government establishment, the materials being supplied by contract. He was not aware that there was any intention of increasing the manufacture of clothing, and the enlargement at Pimlico was required not for that purpose, but to increase the available storage. The Committee would be able to judge to what extent the army drew their supplies from that source when he stated that thirty-nine battalions of infantry were supplied from Pimlico, while forty-six had their clothing made up by contractors.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that the paper in his hand referred to clothing, and, as he supposed, included both trousers and tunics. As to the alleged failure of the Armstrong gun, he had before him some information on that point, which he would state to the Committee. In the first place, it was said that the vent-pieces had failed. Now, in proof of the almost complete removal of that liability he would state that about 150 40-pounder guns were lately proved without the failure of a single vent-piece. Some of the new vent-pieces had been exposed to sixty proof discharges without showing a symptom of weakness. Then it was said that the vent-pieces blew out; but experience had shown that that always happened from negligence or imperfect knowledge of the gun. The liability, however, had been almost entirely obviated by a modification which had been introduced into the pattern. It had not yet been applied to all the guns issued, but meanwhile it was hoped that where it had not been applied greater familiarity with the weapon would prevent these accidents. A further allegation was that the gas escaped from the breech in the case of the larger guns; but that imperfection had also been completely removed. Then it was said that the lead was liable to separate from the projectile. That defect was greatly exaggerated, but
 1091
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, he hoped that hon. Members would bear in mind the startling statement that nine-tenths of the army clothing were now being manufactured in the Government establishments. Moreover, he had reason to believe upon good authority that the notion was entertained of eventually manufacturing the whole of the clothing in that establishment.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that one of the principal items of the increase alluded to was occasioned by the recent expedition to Canada. With respect to lodging accommodation for married soldiers, there was a diminution, the item being £3,000 instead of £5,000 as in the Estimates for last year.
 MAJOR KNOX  said, he thought the Government had taken a step in the right direction by allowing certain corps of the army to make their own boots. Formerly a parcel of boots were sent out to a regiment many of which would fit no one in it. As to the army clothing, he believed the portion that came from the Pimlico establishment was better made than that furnished by contractors, and was thus an advantage to the soldier. He hoped the Government would persevere in making it.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  explained, that some arms were being taken on old and outstanding contracts from Liege, but that no new contracts for arms were entered into.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : No.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : During the Crimean war.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he was under the impression that private individuals had to pay for having chimneys swept, and did not find the soot returned them a profit. Many of the buildings in charge of the War Department were very extensive, having the character of manufactories, and the chimney-sweeping was mostly done by contract. Another item, of which no notice had been taken, was one to which the objection would equally apply; it was the charge of more than £12,000 for emptying cesspools.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the hon. Gentleman wished to elicit his opinion as to the relative merits of a large bore and a small bore. Experiments were going on, he believed, for the purpose of determining the very question to which he has called attention, and he hoped within a reasonable time to be able to give a decided answer.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the change referred to had not originated in any way with the Executive Government, but was regarded by them as connected with the discipline of the army. The Military Commission had recommended the change, and also further alterations, which were agreed to. The alterations were in the names of the regiments, and a slight change in the dress, which would be found, on investigation, to be really almost nominal.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he could confirm the statements of the hon. Gentleman opposite. He well remembered the disgust which had been excited in the ranks of the Fusiliers when their bearskin caps were taken away on the paltry excuse that no bearskins could be procured. Why, they had only to cross the Channel to see them worn by numberless regiments. Last year it was proposed to take away the "eagle button" from his old regiment, as a species of compliment to our French neighbours, and the proud
 1096
 MAJOR KNOX  said, that the regiment to which he belonged at the outbreak of the Crimean War had the word "Peninsula" on their accoutrements. That word was removed, and when they applied to have it restored they were told to mind their own business.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the increase arose, not from the cost of manufacture, but in consequence of additions made to the clothing of the troops, both cavalry and infantry, in accordance with the recommendation of the Committee which investigated the entire subject. The charge was certainly a large one, and, what was more, it would be permanent; but the comfort of the troops would in future be greatly enhanced.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that the main object of the addition to the West India regiments was to provide a garrison for the new station which the Government had acquired at Lagos on the African coast for the suppression of the slave trade. Only four additional companies would be created; and it would only be necessary to recruit for 200 additional men. He did not think that recruiting for that number in the West India islands would cause that
 1098
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  replied, that he could not say that no such attempts were to be made, because they would be; but neither could he enter into any engagement with the Committee that there should be no recruiting in the islands themselves. In reply to the noble Lord (Lord Hotham), the right hon. Baronet stated that, while several of the recommendations of the Royal Commission had been adopted, there were others on which no steps had been taken.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he could assure the noble Lord that the recommendations of the Commission of which the noble Lord was chairman were duly appreciated at the War Office, and that no time would be lost in giving effect to the larger and more important of their suggestions. No one could be better aware than the noble Lord, from his great experience and the attention he had paid to the subject, that a great machine like the War Department could not be pressed into very rapid improvements, and that time was necessary in making these changes.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, there had been an increase in the Vote, but it had been principally owing to the reinforcements that had been sent to Canada. There had been a considerable increase to the amount of rather more than £75,000 in the articles of fuel and light; but the greater part of that was required for the troops in British North America. There was also an item of special allowances of £55,000 to the troops serving in China. The item for barrack furniture also exhibited an increase.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, that the objection was a mere hobby of the hon. Gentleman, who took a similar objection last year, As he (Colonel North) bad before informed the hon. Member, the dinner was a privilege not peculiar to the Guards, but was extended to any regiment that happened to be doing duty at the Palace. The Guards were exposed to considerable expense, as they had no mess or barracks. He could remember the 6th doing duty at the Palace and of course partaking of the dinner.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the item had been in every Estimate for near a century. The material consideration for the Committee was, that the officers of the Guards had no barrack accommodation and no mess. The dinner was, no doubt, practically for the officers of the Guards, though there was no exclusive rule; and if officers of the Line were at St. James's, they would partake of it. It would, in his opinion, be very ungracious for the Committee to exclude the item.
 MAJOR KNOX  said, he was about to
 1102
 COLONEL NORTH  said, their object was, that the cornet should receive his 8s. a day without reduction, and that the country should give the forage.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he did not quite see how the object was to be effected by the proposed Amendment. He understood from the statement of the hon. and gallant Gentleman that he wished to relieve
 1103
 MAJOR KNOX  said, he hoped, then, that the right hon. Gentleman would consider the point before the next Session.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he was afraid he could not enter into any formal engagement in reference to the question. He should not object to consider the subject, but he could not hold out any very sanguine hope of the alleged grievance being remedied.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he should certainly support the Amendment. For the last three or four years he had done everything in his power to remedy this crying evil.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he could not but regret the answer which the right hon. Gentleman had given with regard to the lighting of Waterford barracks with gas. Gas rendered the barracks more comfortable and cheerful to the soldier, who was often driven to the pot-house from the miserable condition of the barrack-room, lighted with a couple of miserable candles.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that this
 1104
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that the same explanation applied to New Zealand.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that upon the total of the Vote there was a decrease of £140,305 as compared with last year. The small-arms in store amounted to 361,000, a number which, considering the demands upon the Government, was not thought to be excessive. In the item for the purchase and repairs of those arms there was a decrease of £143,712. Upon ordnance and projectiles there was a decrease of £106,732. The main increase in the Vote was for gunpowder and saltpetre.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that unless the hon. Member went to Woolwich he could have no idea what a variety of necessary stores were included under that description.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that the last remark of the hon. Gentleman might cause misapprehension. The experiment referred to was for the purpose of ascertaining what was the resisting power of iron on iron. It was found that at a certain distance the same weight of artillery which failed to destroy the model of a side of the  Warrior,
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, a number of experiments had been made at Woolwich upon a great variety of small arms, under the auspices of a Committee, which he hoped would be able to report before very long. The experiments were very dilatory, and required a good deal of time for consideration. Breech-loaders were among the arms which had been tested; but, as far as be could judge, the military authorities appeared to be adverse to the adoption of that class of rifle. There was an impression that it led to too hasty and lavish an expenditure of ammunition.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that the Government had agreed to arm a regiment with Whitworth rifles, in deference to the opinion expressed by the House last year, when the question was debated. Many persons both in and out of the House considered the Whitworth a better weapon, and he had no doubt that a marksman firing calmly and deliberately at a target, free from any of those agitating conditions which attended actual conflict, would find the Whitworth superior to the Enfield. Whether its practical superiority was such as to render it necessary that the Government should go to the expense of re-arming the forces, a few years after they had been supplied with new rifles, was a very different question. Several eminent scientific authorities, General Hay among the number, were in favour of the Whitworth rifle, and the Government deemed it right to give it a trial. At the same time it must be understood that they were not in the least pledged to the adoption of the arm by the step they had taken.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : I believe no single Continental army has adopted the breech-loading principle.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : Certainly the French army has not, and the Austrians hare not.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : And the great army in North America has been armed with a rifle closely resembling the Enfield rifle. I do not at all anticipate that the breech-loading principle will make the progress which the hon. Gentleman thinks it will.
 CAPTAIN JERVTS  said, there was not a single breech-loading rifle in America or Europe fit to be employed in the army.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  stated, that it was proposed to take from the Vote the sum of £30,000 for the purpose of defending certain commercial harbours, including the Humber and Holyhead, and it would be competent for any hon. Gentlemen to object, if they thought fit, to any one of the items making up the amount of £30,000. About £13,000 would be applied to carrying on works already under contract on the Humber and at Holyhead; £6,000 would he expended on the Mersey, and £3,000 on the Severn for the protection of Gloucester and Cardiff. The sum allotted to Scotland and Ireland amounted to £7,500, namely, 5,000 for the Frith of Forth, and 2,500 for Belfast, leaving a remainder of £500 to meet contingencies.
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, that the harbour of Harwich had always been considered one of the most important in England, and was large enough to admit an enemy's fleet. In case of a continental war, the first thing the French would do would be to invade Belgium; and if they obtained possession of Antwerp, they would be in a position directly opposite Harwich. He wished to know, whether there was any chance of the Vote being expended dining the year? It was a matter of just complaint that votes were taken every year for fortifications which were never erected. In the case of Hull, money was granted for many consecutive years before it was actually spent.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that a Vote in Committee of Supply was in the nature of a  maximum.
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  asked, whether the right hon. Baronet could assure them that the whole would be expended.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he could not enter into any undertaking.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  replied, that the sum to be voted for Alderney only amounted to £2,000, and was required for the purchase of some land.
 MAJOR KNOX  said, he felt bound to expostulate with the Government on the shabby sum of £2,500 appropriated to the Irish harbours out of £163,000. Belfast, Galway, and Londonderry were quite defenceless.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he concurred with the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Newdegate) in the opinion that the establishment of gunboats, as proposed, would be by no means an economical arrangement; while it was quite clear that but a very small extent of submarine telegraph wires could be laid down for the amount of the item which it was sought to strike out of the Estimates—£3,000. He might add, that all the Government asked the Committee to expend in the shape of votes for completely new works for the defence of our commercial harbours was £170,000, which could hardly be considered an extravagant amount, especially by those who were aware, as he was, of the great alarm which prevailed among those connected with those harbours when it was thought there would be a war with the United States. He was, indeed, prepared to admit that he did not think any great degree of danger was to be apprehended from privateers or men-of-war entering our commercial parts, inasmuch as the entrance would be attended with much risk; but he did not at the same time think it would be advisable to leave the enormous mass of shipping in those ports wholly unprotected. Cardiff, Gloucester, and Bristol would, at all events, be benefited in no small degree by the expenditure of the £3,000 under discussion, and he therefore hoped the Committee would sanction the scheme.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, that Cardiff had latterly increased very much in importance. It was now the greatest port for the exportation of steam coal and iron, and its tonnage was four times as great as that of Bristol. There could be no doubt that the proposed defences would be a valuable defence to Cardiff, but he did not understand how they would contribute greatly to the defence of Gloucester or Bristol.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he wished to relieve the Government from any charge of bad faith in dealing with the question. The Resolution passed on the 4th of March was in these words—
 "Resolved that this House, while fully recognising the claims of all portions of the British empire to Imperial aid in their protection against perils arising from the consequences of Imperial policy, is of opinion that colonies exercising the rights of self-government ought to undertake the main responsibility of providing for their own internal order and security, and ought to assist in their own external defence."
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, they were introduced at the time when the alarm existed as to hostilities with the United States. It was represented—and he believed with perfect truth—that St. John's in Newfoundland, and Halifax in Nova Scotia, were inadequately defended, and that it was desirable, having regard to the naval interests of the mother country as well as to our commerce, that they should be more completely protected. Of course at that moment they hoped that nothing would happen to cause an interruption of peace with the United States, and therefore the immediate necessity for such a measure had ceased. At the same time the Government thought that on the whole it would be a prudent precaution to maintain these two items, and therefore, unless any hon. Gentleman could state any good reason to the contrary, he would wish to press them on the Committee.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  replied, that its share would be the maintenance of a militia. Undoubtedly they did not expect it to pay a sum of money towards the fortifications of the port of Halifax, a great naval station in which England had a direct imperial interest. The view taken by the Government was that the way in which our North American colonies could contribute to their self-defence was not by maintaining a standing army in the form of permanent paid regiments, but by providing an efficient militia.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the practice of the department was one thing, and the legal rule another. [ Laughter.
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, he would oppose the Amendment, on the ground that it had been decided to furnish such fortifications in that island as were absolutely required. Moreover, those islands paid a large contribution towards their own military protection. Their fortifications had long been in a state of dilapidation, and the sum spent in improving them had been remarkably small.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  explained, that there had been a re-armament of the fortifications at Corfu; that larger guns had been brought into use, and had necessitated larger magazine accommodation.
 SIR MORTON PBTO  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, his answer to the Amendment was a very short one. The officers of the War Department
 1121
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he saw no objection to the Government making all the clothing for the army, and, putting aside the question of comparative cost, he should be glad if they were to do so.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  explained, that the general rule of the Government was not to rely exclusively upon their own establishments or upon contractors. There was one large contractor who supplied a considerable amount of clothing to the army, and who happened to be a constituent of the right hon. Gentleman.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he had no reason to suppose that any unfair advantage was taken of the small-arms manufacturers in consequence of the arms being sent to Enfield for inspection in a competing establishment. He would, however, bear the observations of the hon. Gentleman in mind, and cause inquiries to be made. He apprehended, however, that if any change were made, it would lead to additional expense.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, at all events the contractor lived in that part of the country. He believed that the establishment was economically conducted, and he repeated that there was no intention of altering the proportion of clothing now supplied by contractors.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, that his hon. Friend must be aware that the clothing, under the old system, was ill-made and made up of bad materials, so much so that on wet days the clothes were completely shrunk.
 COLONEL KNOX  said, there were quite enough non-effectives at present in the army, without having tailors or shoemakers in addition. The clothing supplied from the Government stores was a great improvement upon that previously provided, and was duly appreciated by the army He hoped, therefore, that the Government would continue so salutary a check upon the contractors.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, a Vote of £15,000 was agreed to last year, for enlarging the College at Sandhurst. Up to the 1st of January only £953 of that sum had been expended. Most of the Vote of last year, therefore, was still unappropriated. The sum now asked for, added to the sum that had been expended, was not equal to the Vote passed last Session. All that was proposed was to make certain additions to the college, in order to enable young men who entered the army without purchasing their commission to be educated for the examination under the present rules, which required candidates who did not purchase their commissions
 1125
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  was glad to hear that only £953 of last year's Vote had been expended. Since then the scheme had been largely modified. Officers purchasing their commissions were not to be obliged to pass an examination at Sandhurst. The latter class included a large number of the officers who entered the service. If his right hon. friend would make inquiry, he would find that there was sleeping accommodation at Sandhurst for 400 cadets—a number far beyond the present requirements, or any likely to arise under the altered regulations. Additional halls of study were the things most requisite at Sandhurst.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, the objection to officers of the present day who came from the Universities, was that they were too old when they entered the service. They were no longer of the same stamp as those who came years ago from the public schools and could be moulded into anything.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, that under those circumstances, he did not see what advantage was to be gained by their going to the university at all.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the proposal of the Universities amounted, in fact, to a plan for ingrafting on the ordinary curriculum of Oxford or Cambridge a species of Sandhurst education for young men about to enter the army. He confessed he did not Bee any great benefits which would accrue from such a system. He by no means advocated a universal and exclusively professional training for the great bulk of the officers of the army. But, with regard to the holders of non-purchased commissions, he thought they might advantageously go to Sandhurst, where the special training they received would enable them to join their regiments without delay. Though the Vote was asked for, no more money would be expended at Sandhurst than was absolutely necessary.
 GENERAL LINDSAY  said, he thought it perfectly fair that the Government, in granting commissions without purchase, should be at liberty to make terms with the recipients. The object of the Sandhurst scheme was to bring young men of eighteen or nineteen into the army.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was afraid that the Committee were in this difficulty—that they had to choose between two jobs. If there was to be a perfectly free and open competition, that might be a very intelligible proposition; but all parties seemed to agree that there must be a special education; and, if so, he could not understand why it should be Cambridge against Sandhurst.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he knew that there had been a great want of water at Aldershot. He had been assured that the Estimate would be sufficient.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he did not propose to take any further Votes that night. He would proceed with the Army Estimates on the following Monday.
 MR. COWPER  said, he had to lay on the table an Estimate of £2,000 for a Temporary Road in Hyde Park. He took that course in conformity with what he understood to be the wish of the House as expressed on a former occasion, when he had proposed to make a permanent road. The suggestion of a permanent road was not favourably received by the House, and he now proposed to take the means of providing a temporary road, which would serve for the additional traffic while the Exhibition was open. He did not propose to make any great change in the park, neither to construct a new road nor to make a new bridge. His plan simply was, that carriages should be allowed to make use of portions of the park now reserved for riders on horseback. The line of road he proposed would enter Hyde Park from Bayswater at Victoria Gate. It would be identical with the existing carriage drive until it approached the bridge over the Serpentine. The carriages would then go over that portion of the bridge now exclusively confined to riders. They would then proceed to the south of the bridge until they reached Rotten Row. Here they would take less than half the present road, and then, passing to the west,
 1129
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  (in answer to Sir HARRY VERNEY) said, that the sum of £3,000 was taken for the purchase of the building lately used as a club-house at
 1128
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, be should support the Amendment. He was opposed to the formation of a temporary road, because he was convinced that, if once tolerated, it would be converted into a permanent thoroughfare. It was instructive to observe bow, on an occasion when some self-denial and forbearance
 1133
 MR. BANKS STANHOPE  said, he thought that under no circumstances should a permanent road be permitted through Kensington Gardens.
 MR. COWPER  said, he had not thought it necessary to reply at length to the proposal of the hon. Member for Honiton (Mr. Cochrane), because it was obvious that the road he proposed would be quite unsuited for the traffic of cabs and omnibuses; it would be quite a quagmire. It was also a much longer road than that proposed by himself (Mr. Cowper), and if it had to be metalled, it would cost a great deal more than £2,000. Everybody, he thought, must feel that a carriage road on the level through Kensington Gardens was not a thing to be desired. All he wished to propose was, that carriages should go where horses went now; and it must be remembered that Hyde Park was a Royal park, and no metropolitan funds could he devoted to the construction of a road through it.
 MR. COWPER  said, he would remind the hon. Member that there were pathways for foot passengers under the arches of the bridge on either side of the Serpentine, by which Kensington Gardens might be reached without any interference whatever from the carriage traffic.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he proposed to fix the next stage for Monday week.
 CAPTAIN CARNEGIE  said, he should like to have the clothing of the army manufactured in the army itself; but he did not wish to have the soldiers' clothing spoiled. There was always work enough for the tailors now in the army in altering the clothing when supplied, and in afterwards making the necessary repairs.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he had lived in Belgravia, and had found out the inconvenience of having to go round by Westminster or Hyde Park Corner. He could, therefore, well sympathize with the gentlemen in Tyburnia who objected to making such a circuit to get to the Exhibition. From the great increase which was taking place in that part of London, it would be found necessary, sooner or later, to open communication by a road across Hyde Park. The way to look at the question was not as a temporary matter, but as the best way of establishing permanent communication between those two parts of London. He did not like the plan proposed by the right hon. Gentleman the First Commissioner of Works, and least of all did he like the proposition that the engineer who had turned out so extraordinary an architect should be allowed to improve the bridge across the Serpentine by the sort of outrigger which had been suggested. He thought the best way would be that suggested by the hon. Member for Honiton. He did not think any inconvenience would be found to arise to the gardens, and certainly not so much to the persons who frequented the gardens, as by the plan proposed by the right hon. Gentleman.
 LORD HOTHAM  said, he felt the truth of what the right hon. Gentleman had just stated so forcibly that he had not opened his lips on the subject last Session. Nothing could be more reasonable than the request of the War Office for time for due consideration.
 LORD HOTHAM  said, he could assure the right hon. Baronet that in the inquiry he had made on the subject he was not actuated by any desire to make complaints; but, having had the honour of being named President of the Royal Commission appointed in 1859 to inquire into and report on the existing system of recruiting in the army, it was not unnatural that he should wish to know how the Government were dealing with the recommendations of the Commission. Besides that, he thought it was due to those who had sat with him on that Commission that they should be made acquainted with the extent to which the Government intended to go in carrying their recommendations into effect. It would be satisfactory to them to know that their labours had not been in vain. He was willing to admit that the right hon. Gentleman had carried into effect many recommendations conducive to the health and comfort of the soldier. One of the first injunctions from Her Majesty to the Commission was, that in every recommendation the Commissioners might make, economy should be the first consideration. He felt bound to say that to that injunction the Commissioners bad paid implicit obedience. He should have been glad if some other
 1099
 LORD HOTHAM  said, that might be the proper time to put the question of which he had given notice. He wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman if he could state how many of the recommendations of the Royal Commission on recruiting in the army it was in contemplation to adopt?
 LORD WILLIAM GRAHAM : There was an account given in last year of the expenditure ending March 31, 1860, and I ask for the account for the year after that—the year ending March 31, 1861.
 LORD WILLIAM GRAHAM  said, that the Committee on Colonial Military Expenditure recommended that a statement should be appended to the Army Estimates showing the sums received from each colony during the last financial year, and the total military charge on the colony. He should like to know why that return had not been appended to the Estimates. A paper had been handed in to the Committee last year giving the expenditure up to March 31, 1860; and
 1069
 MR. AYRTON  said, the question was not a purely military one, but had an important political bearing. A standing army had been attended with less injurious effects in England than in other countries, because the officers in the British service were not brought up as a separate class, and never forgot that they were members of society. It was impossible to make a French officer understand that he had any other duty than to obey his superior in command; he was perfectly ready, when the order was given, to fire upon any one. Upon general pub lie grounds he objected to this Vote, and the Committee ought to set their face against any attempt to draw candidates into a single military establishment, and thus to separate them in their habits and
 1126
 MR. BLACK  said, he wished to ask the Lord Advocate, If he intends to bring in a Bill for the establishment of a National System of Education in Scotland; and, if so, when he expects to introduce it?
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE : Will the hon. Gentleman lay the papers on the table?
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he wished to ask, Whether the Government have received any information of an insurrection which has broken out at Nauplia and other places in Greece; and whether any ships have been ordered up for the [protection of British interests?
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, of all
 1130
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he wanted to know how it was proposed that pedestrians should reach Kensington Gardens at all when there was a stream of carriages blocking the way?
 MR. LEFROY  said, that since he came down to the House he had received a telegraphic message from the Board of Trinity College, Dublin, requesting him strongly to support the proposition of his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Selwyn). The Board of Trinity College had already been in communication with the right hon. Gentleman on the subject of military education. He entirely concurred in what had fallen from his hon. and learned Friend, and he trusted that the right hon. Gentleman's reply would be satisfactory.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he could not understand why so much money should be required for lodgings out of barracks, when every year the House was asked for large sums for additional barrack accommodation. A large sum was also asked for rents of lands and buildings hired in connection with barracks, although the Vote for the purchase of lands and buildings had increased.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  observed, that the Vote for clothing had been increased by no less a sum than £70,000, and asked for an explanation.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  pointed out to the Committee that last year the vote for these items was £45,000; the present was £28,000—a reduction of £17,000.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he hoped the Government would not be too precipitate in taking on hand a large stock of small-arms, as it was still doubtful which would prove the best description of weapon. He understood that the iron target which had been deemed invulnerable by the Government had been pierced by three shots of an Armstrong gun.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he had had the honour of constructing all the barracks in London, and he had never constructed a mess-room for the Guards. The dinner was not intended for the Guards, but for any one on duty at St. James's.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, that it had been explained that the increased charge for North America arose from the increase in the number of troops there.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, that as the defence of the Bristol Channel stood upon the same ground as the defence of all our commercial ports, and as many professed economists had just voted against the proposition of the hon. Member for Swansea, he would not give the Committee the trouble of dividing upon his Motion.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he understood that in future wars privateers were not to be used, and yet that was the class of vessels which these fortifications were intended to resist. He would move the omission of the whole item of £30,000.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he thought the Government had come to a very wise decision. A gunboat ought to have a  point d'appui
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he hoped the sum of £2,000 would be the last required for that place. He objected to Alderney as a station; but as the works had gone on so far, he should not desire them to be left incomplete for the want of so small a sum. With regard to the commercial harbours, the amount originally proposed to be devoted to their defence was £450,000, of which £176,000 had been expended. His complaint, however, was that the works were not carried on fast enough. He would rather see money spent on the defences of commercial harbours than on Ports down Hill. If the country were to have an army at all times sufficient to occupy the proposed forts in that neighbourhood, then the case would be different; but it never would have such a force, and so these forts were likely to become powerful in the hands of an enemy. He trusted that many of the forts originally conceived would not be constructed, and that other works would be completed on the smallest possible scale. It had been said that an enemy might land at Chichester or in Christ-church Bay, and thus threaten Portsmouth; but no hostile army would dare, for the purpose of attacking Portsmouth, to make so long a flank march, and then leave their rear exposed by taking up a position to the north of Holsea Lines. However, if danger was to be apprehended in that quarter, why should a large hospital be built within range of the guns of an invading force? He also wished to ask where the central depôt for stores spoken of last year was to be established?
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he observed an item for the defences of the harbours of Harwich, Newhaven, and the Downs. The total estimate for completing the works was £120,000, and he thought the Government ought to specify what were their intentions with regard to each of those places. He looked upon the proposed expenditure as perfectly useless. As for Harwich, any enemy would find great difficulty in getting there, and the existing works were quite sufficient for the defence of the harbour. Then again, what was meant by the Downs. Did the term refer to Walmer Castle?
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he could corroborate the right hon. Baronet as to the opinion of military authorities that breech-loaders led to too rapid firing. A Committee, presided over by General Simpson, reported that such a weapon would he unsafe.
 MR. LAYARD : There has been no recent information from Greece received at the Foreign Office. I am not aware of any insurrection having broken out except at Nauplia.
 MR. LAYARD : There are no papers at present.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he wished to call the attention of the Government to that portion of the Vote which was proposed for fortifications at the Mauritius. The House had considered the general question only two days before, and he wished to know how far the Government intended to carry into practice the decision then arrived at? According to the Resolutions assented to by the House, the distant possessions of the Crown were to be responsible for their own internal defence, and to take their own share in the repulse of a foreign enemy; and the further proposition that distant fortifications should be discontinued was only not pressed because accepted of course. After the avowals of the Government the other night, he wished to know how it was that this particular Vote was allowed to re-appear. He was anxious to know whether their policy was changed by the debate on Tuesday night, and whether their continued Vote to fortify the Mauritius was part of a policy which lasted up to the Motion of the hon. Member for Taunton? He did not for a moment object to the Vote for the fortifications of imperial garrisons in the Mediterranean, such as Gibraltar; but he certainly did object to fortifying any such posts as the Mauritius. Those fortifications were at present utterly inadequate; but to make them adequate not only would cost an enormous amount of money, but they would take more men than we could possibly spare to garrison them. Sir J. Burgoyne, in his evidence before the Committee, expressed his opinion that it would take a million of money to make all our distant fortifications adequate, and in case any, by inadequate defence, were lost in a war, a vast amount of stores, besides men, would be sacrificed. Under any circumstances there would be a loss of men, because
 1115
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he was satisfied, as far as Mauritius was concerned, with the right hon. Baronet's promise that the Vote of £15,000 then proposed for the works in progress would be the end of all the Votes that would be asked for. With respect to the answer made by the Under Secretary for the Colonies on Tuesday last, he must say that his impression of it was quite the reverse of that described by the right hon. Baronet. As regarded Nova Scotia, bearing in mind the Resolutions agreed to the other night, he wished to ask what share of the burden of its own defence the Government expected that colony to take?
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he also would appeal to the hon. Baronet not to press his Amendment, as the fortifications were kept up in those islands in consequence of an agreement which was in the nature of a treaty or contract.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he rose to call attention to the injury done to the manufacturers of small-arms in consequence of their being all sent for inspection to Enfield, where rigorous tests were applied, whereas the competing Government Enfield rifles manufactured there were sent out without subjecting them to more than ordinary inspection. He asked whether the Government had any objection to the arms manufactured by the trade being inspected by Colonel Tulloch, independently of the Enfield establishment, it being admitted on all hands that Colonel Tulloch was the most competent small-arms inspector in the country.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the suggestion of the noble Lord was worthy of attention; but it could not be considered an economical mode of defence. It would obviously be cheaper to have batteries, which could be manned by the Volunteers of the neighbourhood; and he was sure the Vote would not be grudged by the commercial communities, to whose protection it was intended to contribute.
 MR. SELWYN  said, that he should move that the Vote be reduced by the sum of £12,700, the probable charge consequent on the augmentation of the Military College at Sandhurst, by increasing the number of cadets to 400. He thought the reduction was, on the right hon. Baronet's own admission, indispensable. He had stated that it was not necessary that all candidates for commissions in the army should be educated at Sandhurst; and, if not, where would the right hon. Gentleman draw the distinction? It appeared that a course of instruction at the college was to be enforced for all those who did not purchase their commissions; while those who purchased them might he educated where they thought fit. The compulsory instruction at the college was abandoned for those who could afford to pay for a commission, and enforced for those who could not. That he must again confess that he could not understand; he could not understand it even in reference to the question of patronage. If it were necessary to have some check on patronage, let there be an examination, however stringent, but let the candidates acquire their knowledge anywhere they chose. Why force them to obtain it in a particular place, and in a particular manner? Let all the candidates have an open and fair chance. If Sandhurst was the best place for obtaining the necessary education, why was not the residence there compulsory on all? If it was not the best, why make the course compulsory on any? If a liberty of choice was given, it should be given rather to the poorer class of candidates than to the rich. If any doubt were felt whether the system of free and open education was beneficial to the army, at least let it have a fair trial before they sanctioned an immediate expenditure and a large annual charge.
 MR. SELWYN  explained, that candidates for commissions would not be required to go through the whole University course, but only to keep six terms, from October in one year to June in the next, so that they would still be quite young when they joined the army.
 MR. SELWYN  said, that before putting the question of which he had given notice,
 1066 1067
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  explained, that in what he said on the previous night he made no allusion whatever to the Army Estimates on the table, but only gave an opinion with respect to the general policy of colonial fortification. He had not referred to any small special outlay which the War Department might think necessary.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  inquired, whether any decision had been arrived at by the right hon. Gentleman regarding the superior efficiency of the rifles served out to the Engineers over the ordinary Enfield rifle, and to what extent it was likely the principle would be adopted in arming the other branches of our military force?
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he was glad he had been fortunate enough to elicit a joke on so dry a subject.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he objected to a scheme which tended to establish in the army an aristocracy of wealth. A broad line would be drawn between those who went to Sandhurst and those who did not, as in the case of oppidans and collegers at public schools. There would be the "tug-muttons," who were forced to go to Sandhurst, and the chartered libertines, who received their education wherever it was most agreeable to them. The scheme he held to be fundamentally erroneous.
 ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, that the Exhibition was a public undertaking, and it was but fitting that the public should defray the expense of making a convenient access to it.
 LORD FERMOY  said, he begged leave, as the feather weight which had assisted to break the back of the camel on a late occasion, to be allowed to say a few words in favour of the scheme which had been submitted to them by the Chief Commissioner of Works. It was the right line—at all events, it was a line running in the right direction, He would, however, suggest an improvement in the direction of the bridge—that the whole of the bridge should be thrown open to the traffic, and that a small pontoon bridge should be thrown over the river for all foot passengers. He thought that £2,000 was a small sum to effect so great a convenience.
 LORD FERMOY  said, he would suggest that, instead of setting up on isolated rocks batteries that could either be captured by the enemy or avoided by him altogether, they should adopt a plan by which the navy might be made more available for defence. A fleet of gunboats located in Cork Harbour might, for instance, be got ready at a moment's notice, to beat off any suspicious looking vessels which might appear on our coast. Thus, by placing the lighthouses, where necessary, in telegraphic communication with one another, and with those harbours in which the gunboats were situated, he would have a weapon always in readiness for the protection of the coast. Entertaining that view, he should vote for the reduction proposed by his hon. Friend the Member for Swansea, being prepared at
 1111
 LORD FERMOY  maintained, that if his plan were adopted, no additional expense would be caused. No more gunboats would be needed beyond those which they would keep up in time of war. Under any circumstances, all that was necessary was to place them in central points, from which they could be readily summoned on an emergency. He understood that a telegraphic company had recently offered to place the Admiralty and the Foreign Office in communication with the principal points round our coast on the Government paying a rent for a single wire.
 LORD FERMOY  said, it appeared to him, that if cornets had reason to complain of the present state of things, they would have still greater reason to complain if the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman was carried, because, if a man was to pay 8½ d. now for his forage and it was proposed to diminish the allowance for forage, he would be in a worse position than before. There might be something peculiar in the matter which military men might see, but for his part he could not help thinking that the proposed was a very strange way to get rid of the hardship complained of.
 MR. WARNER  hoped some more satisfactory answer would be given to the question put by the hon. and gallant Member for Chatham (Sir Frederic Smith) as to the efficiency of the Armstrong gun. Captain Halstead had written a pamphlet that raised most serious complaints of the working of that weapon. The right
 1093 The Times,
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he was also of opinion that as long as the British protectorate was maintained there, they ought to supply the money necessary for keeping up the fortifications; besides which, those
 1119
 MR. G. W. HOPE  said, with reference to the mode of admission to Sandhurst, that he last year took exception to the Vote for that establishment which was then proposed. His objections, however, had been greatly obviated by the assurance that no gentlemen would be required to pass through the College who had not received their commissions for nothing. At the same time it appeared by the statement of Lord Herbert before the Military Organization Committee that so little was the popularity of Sandhurst at that time, that although it was considered that persons gained their commissions there by competition, there was practically no competition, but every one who entered the College in due course received his commission. It was stated before the Committee that the subject was under consideration, whether the entrance was to be by competition or nomination. It was stated last year by the Secretary for War that the entrance should be by nomination, and consequently the nomination would be equivalent to giving a commission. He wished to know whether the entrance was to be by open competition or by nomination?
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, he agreed with the hon. Member for Honiton in the plan which he suggested, and thought that the scheme proposed by the right hon. Gentleman was decidedly the worst that could be devised. If carried out, it would spoil Rotten Row, as well as Kensington Gardens and Hyde Park. On those grounds he should certainly be disposed to divide the Committee against the proposition. At all events, he should be inclined to move that the question be adjourned for further consideration.
 MR. PEACOCKE  moved that the Chairman should report progress.
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, he did not see why, if the Government could undersell private manufacturers, they should not do so.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he conceived that the Committee ought to have from the right hon. the Secretary for War some distinct assurance that the steady annual increase of the Vote should not be allowed to continue. He found, after careful examination, not of the Estimates, but of the actual appropriations of the last ten years, that an enormous increase in the expenditure of the War Department had gradually taken place. A comparison, for instance, of the year 1855–6, when the military establishment was notoriously high, with the present year, showed the following result—That whereas the number of men asked for in the Estimates in the former year was 215,941, and the number in the latter only 145,450, the sum voted for salaries and contingencies in connection with the War Office was only £160,459 in 1855–6, while, although since that time military departments which were then separate had been combined with the view of effecting
 1076
 MR. CRUM-EWING  said, he concurred in what the hon. Member who had just spoken had said as to the inconvenience caused in the islands by the system of recruiting which the hon. Member bad condemned. It was a serious thing to deprive the population of the labour of Coolies, who had been brought to the islands at an expense of £15 or more a man.
 MR. J. A. TURNER  said, that from personal knowledge he could declare that nothing could be more disgraceful than the manner in which the accounts of the establishment at Weedon were kept. With respect to Woolwich, he could say, as he had said in the Report of the Royal Commissioners, that the accounts were admirably kept. The store accounts were almost perfect, but as to the manufacturing establishments, there were items of expense which were overlooked, such as allowance for interest on capital and insurance. He thought nothing could be more improper than for the Government to set up establishments to compete with manufacturers in articles which were of ordinary production and consumption, although there might be some exceptional articles which they might best manufacture for themselves.
 MR. J. A. TURNER  said, that if those premises were purchased instead of rented the country would be, in a great measure, tied to the present system; but if they came to the wise conclusion that they were
 1123
 MR. WYLD  said, he wished to call attention to the state of the canteens throughout the barracks of the empire. In 1855, in consequence of a Report of a Committee on that subject, hopes were held out of considerable improvements being made in those canteens, to the comfort and profit of the soldier. Unfortunately, those improvements had never been effected, and at that moment the canteens were nothing more nor less than bad beer-shops. They had fallen into the hands of contractors, who amassed considerable sums of money at the expense of the soldiers. From £15,000 to £16,000 per annum might be saved out of those canteens, and the money appropriated to providing better accommodation for the soldier. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman would give the subject his consideration.
 MR. DODSON  said, he wished to ask for an explanation as to the large charge for miscellaneous stores.
 MR. LOCKE  said, that if a small check produced better clothing, he thought it would be still further improved by a larger check. The preponderance of the evidence before the Committee was in favour of extending the check on the contractors; and if by that means they could be made honest, a success would have been achieved.
 MR. LOCKE  remarked, that everybody seemed to assume that the proposed road, or some road from the north side of the park to the south, was necessary. ["No, no!"] He was glad to hear cries of "No," for he never saw the necessity for it himself. The noble Member for Marylebone (Lord Fermoy) no doubt saw the necessity, because be represented the north side of the park, and his constituents wanted a road to get to the Exhibition. But how did Marylebone get to the Exhibition of 1851? The Serpentine was there then; the inhabitants of Marylebone did not ford the river, nor did they swim over it. They went round, and they could do so again. If it was intended that the proposed road should be the commencement of a permanent road, why then they ought to debate the question on its real footing, and not discuss the question of the Exhibition, when the question really was Paddington. There were roads on all sides of the Park. Why not, while the Exhibition was open, permit carriages to use them? And why not admit cabs? Cabs were not looked on in France as they were here. They were admitted in the Champs Elysées side by side with the carriage of the Count de Morny. Why not let them pass through Hyde Park? The proposition to go across the bridge, cut up Rotten Row, and intercept those who wished to go into Kensington Gardens, would, if carried, create a great inconvenience; and till some better reason was shown why an exceptional view should be taken on this occasion, and a different mode of getting to the Exhibition adopted to that used on the former occasion, he should vote against the proposition. He thought there were means enough of getting to the Exhibition. Another thing was, how to get away from it?
 MR. LOCKE  said, he should like to hear what the present state of things at Sandhurst was before he was called on to agree to this Vote. He was informed that at present there were only 200 cadets at Sandhurst, while they had accommodation for 400; and, nevertheless, they were now asked to create accommodation for 400 more.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he was rather sorry to hear that a whole regiment was to be armed with the Whitworth rifle. He
 1106
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he was of opinion that neither the Bristol Channel stood in need of land defences, nor that the proposed defences were judicious. The only danger to be apprehended was from privateers; but with Milford Haven and Falmouth, which were both considerable ports for the rendezvous of men-of-war, the inlet was safe; and if an unfortunate privateer entered it, a telegram to either place would bring a vessel of war in pursuit long before she could reach the Steep Holmes, 100 miles above Swansea, and she would be caught in a complete trap. A fortification had been put up at the Mumbles Head; but he considered that they might just as well have thrown the money into the sea. They could not resort to artillery practice for fear of breaking the windows of the lighthouse close by; and now it appeared that another battery was required to defend that which had been erected. It would be far better to keep a few gunboats moored in the neighbourhood ready to be put into commission on the threat of war; and he begged therefore to move that the Vote be reduced by £3,000.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he should propose that the item of £3,000 for the defences of the Severn be omitted; but he thought that, before entering upon the question of the defence of commercial har-
 1108
 MR. HASSARD  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for War, Why the recommendation contained in the "Interim Reports of Sanitary Defects in Barracks," that Gas should be introduced
 1068
 MR. P. W. MARTIN  said, he wished to ask whether any portion of the Vote was being applied to the increase of the store of Enfield rifles? He could not but deprecate the enormous and continuous accumulation of warlike stores, in the face of the new inventions which were coming out every day both in arms and projectiles. The Government had made, and were making, immense stocks of weapons, which would most probably in five years become obsolete. He had, a few days since, seen two very fine small-bore carbines, which had been bought at 5s. the couple. Here must have been an enormous loss to the public.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, it had been stated that a regiment was to be armed with the Whitworth rifle, and he wished to know whether any experiments were being carried on with regard to breech-loading rifles, and if it was intended to arm a company of each regiment with such rifles?
 Mr. BERNAL OSBORNE : Does the right hon. Baronet shoot?
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : They have tried experiments.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Why, the Prussians have, in the needle-gun; and it is universal.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, that the House had many sins to answer for, but he was not aware it had ever expressed any opinion on the Whitworth rifle in its corporate capacity. Individual Members had done so, but the House had not. It was problematical whether the Secretary for War ought to have given his sanction to the arming of the regiment with the Whitworth, because he was evidently laying the foundation for an increased vote. With his slight knowledge of firearms, he had no hesitation in saying that they must come to the breech-loading principle sooner or later, as foreign armies were armed with breech-loading rifles. Although right hon. Gentlemen on the Treasury bench might be prepared to stick to the old pigtail principle, they would be obliged to come to the breech-loading principle.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, a question had been asked on a former evening with regard to the transmutation of certain regiments from Light Dragoons into Hussars, and the official reply was that the change had been recommended by a Commission of General Officers, but no further information was offered. With all deference to the body of General Officers, he thought the change highly injudicious; for regiments cherished old badges and their ancient prestige, and were stimulated by that very renown and feeling of in-
 1095
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he believed the change from a Light Dragoon to a Hussar would entail an expenditure of £150 upon an officer. In point of fact, a Hussar was clothed rather more heavily, and were four additional bars of lace. But what he objected to most strongly was the destruction of the  esprit de corps
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, that was a matter which ought not to be joked away. Each regiment had its own peculiar associations connected with it, and if these were obliterated, it raised a serious impediment to recruiting. He objected to the change, as neither economy nor discipline would be promoted by it.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Sir, I rise to make a short personal explanation with regard to a statement which I made on Tuesday evening last concerning the hon.
 1064
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  replied, that the Government manufacture was carried on at a loss, and was much more expensive than that of private persons.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, the right hon. Secretary for War was perhaps hardly aware that he was at the head of a great tailoring establishment. The fact was that the Government made all the trousers for the army, and forty-five regiments of the line alone got their tunics by contract. The system was slowly creeping on; and if it continued, the Government would by-and by become a sort of monster Moses and Son.
 MR. OSBORNE  said, there was one extraordinary statement made by the right hon. Member for Limerick which required an answer. That right hon. Gentleman had said that nine-tenths of the clothing of the army was made in Government establishments. Such a fact was quite new to him, and he hoped the right hon. Baronet would be able to assure the Committee that the statement was incorrect; but, if it were true, then it was high time that the House should come to some direct vote upon the mode of clothing the army. No doubt much might be said in favour of manufacturing guns, gun-carriages, and ammunition in Government establishments, but what excuse could there be for the Government becoming a great clothing company.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  reminded the right hon. Baronet that revolvers, which were a description of breech-loaders, were widely used in America.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  observed, he was afraid of comprehensive plans. Last year they had a comprehensive plan for fortifications—£11,000,000 that came to; and the public were now beginning to find out that as far as one port went—Portsmouth—the money was pretty nearly thrown away, for the  Warrior
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, that he had the honour to serve under the hon. and gallant Gentleman, and a very severe commander he was. But the observations of his hon. and gallant Friend were misplaced, because what he referred to took place under the system of the army clothing colonels, which had nothing whatever to do with the existing system.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  affirmed, that it was impossible that the Government could compete satisfactorily as clothiers with private tradesmen, and it was not for the public interest that they should compete. It was said that the present system was not to be further extended, but the fact remained that already nine-tenths of the clothing of the army was manufactured by the Government. All kinds of clothing but trousers were made by the Government, and only forty-five regiments had tunics made by contractors. The Weedon Committee came to the conclusion that a small Government establishment would suffice to check the trader, but the small establishment had grown into one which clothed nine-tenths of the army. Government had also got five years' stock of clothing, but the Committee recommended the keeping on hand of a very small stock, say a supply for six months. That was the recommendation of the storekeepers at Woolwich and Chatham. The Government did not propose to go further; but could they well stop? They had an enor-
 1122
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he would remind the Committee that the question whether the Government should become clothiers on a large scale did not arise upon the Vote, which was simply to decide whether certain premises should be bought instead of rented.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he would press on the Government the propriety of considering the views expressed by his hon. and learned Colleague. He thought it above all things desirable that young men before they entered the army should have an opportunity of mixing with the future members of other professions. He put it to the Committee whether it, was wise to sanction a Vote that would have the effect of entailing on the country an annual expenditure of £12,000 which might well be saved.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he thought that his right hon. Friend (Mr. Henley) had fallen into a mistake. There was no proposition for a special education by Cambridge, Oxford, or Dublin, but a proposition that young men from those universities should be allowed to enter the army without passing through the proposed course at Sandhurst, if they could answer in the peculiar examination which the Military College required. The age at which young men were admitted to the army did not depend on whether they had been educated in a university or not. They were not admitted under the age of eighteen nor over that of twenty-three. What was the objection to admitting young men within those years, wherever they might have been educated, if properly qualified?
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the Bill involved a very important principle, and he hoped the next stage would be fixed for such a day as would give time for a full consideration of it.
 MR. WALPOLE  remarked, that it appeared from the report of the Military Organization Committee that the employment of temporary clerks was deemed detrimental to the proper transaction of business,
 MR. BAXTER  said, he had withdrawn the Amendment he had proposed on Tuesday evening, on the assurance of the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies that it was needless, as the Government were already acting on the principle contained in it. On turning to the Estimates, however, he found a vote of £28,000 for fortifications for colonies having representative Governments, or which were referred to in the report of the Select Committee of last year. He wished to ask whether these payments were for works already done, or for works in progress. If any portion of the sum to be voted that night was for new works, he should be obliged again to bring forward his resolution.
 MR. COX  thought the Committee should be informed what rent the Government was paying for the premises in question, that they might judge as to the reasonableness of the price.
 MR. COX  suggested, that Newfoundland for which there was a Vote of £1,000, and Nova Scotia, for which there was a Vote of £10,000, should be included in the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman, which would bring it more within the scope of the Resolution passed with regard to the colonies on Tuesday night.
 MR. COX  asked for an explanation of the items for Newfoundland and Nova Scotia.
 MR. MONSELL  said, the objection urged against the Mauritius and St. Helena applied with the same force against the fortification of the Ionian Islands. Before the Committee to which allusion had been made, important and most conclusive evidence had been given by the Chancellor of the Exchequer upon this point. He stated distinctly that he had minutely inquired into the state of the fortifications and their possible use in time of war; and his deliberate opinion was that these fortifications were worse than useless; that they would require an enormous force to man them which could not be spared; that they were within thirty miles of Malta, whence, if we had command of the sea, we should be able to send a fleet to defend the islands in case of attack, while if we had not, it would be utterly impossible for any force we could leave on the islands to
 1116
 MR. MONSELL  thought the question for the Committee to consider was, whether the plan of the Government was likely to be an effectual one compared with that of the noble Lord the Member for Marylebone. The latter, although it would be costly, would no doubt be effectual. Nor did he think the country could be at war for a single year with a naval Power without the commercial towns forcing the adoption of that plan upon the Government of the day, whether the defences now pro-
 1112
 MR. MONSELL  said, he rose to call attention to the item for the enlargement of the clothing establishment at Pimlico. In the Report of the Weedon Commission, which had been presided over by the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Turner), it was recommended that the Government should maintain a small establishment as a check upon the private trade. But what was the case now? As he before stated, no less than nine-tenths of the clothing of the army had been taken out of the hands
 1120
 MR. MONSELL  observed, that that was a mistake.
 MR. MONSELL  said, that as he understood that the Government proposed to take a portion of the premises already in their possession, and not distinct premises, and as the present was not therefore a favourable time to test the principle, he would withdraw his Motion.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he quite concurred with the remarks of the hon. and gallant Member who had just sat down as to the establishment at Woolwich for the manufacture of ammunition and guns. The right hon. Member for Coventry (Mr. Ellice) was wrong in saying that the gun factory at Enfield was the only establishment the accounts of which were well kept at the period when the Committee sat. The accounts at the Royal Laboratory were then also in the same position. Balance-sheets that would be satisfactory to the House were henceforward to be presented from all these establishments. But the case of the army clothing manufactory was one of a totally different nature. The Committee would be asked for a Vote of £40,000 for new buildings and machinery to enlarge that establishment. The late Lord Herbert said that the true principle for the Government to act upon was to go to the trade for what the trade could make, and confine themselves to producing what the trade could not produce. At all events, with respect to clothing the Government ought certainly to maintain nothing more than a small establishment to check the private trade; but at this moment nine-tenths of the clothing for the army was made up in the Government establishments. If the clothing establishments were extended beyond their present proportions, the inevitable result would be to throw the entire clothing of the army into the hands of Government. There was, in his opinion, no
 1088
 MR. MONSELL  said, all the clothing made by the Government had to pass through a most rigid inspection. If good, it passed; if bad, it did not pass. And if he was correctly informed, the inspectors reported quite as often against the Pimlico clothing as against that of the contractors.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he would beg leave to ask whether that statement referred to the whole of the clothing or only to the tunics?
 MAJOR WINDSOR PARKER  observed, that it was not necessary to manufacture gun-carriages in England to send out to India, because that country possessed the very finest and most suitable timber for making gun-carriages, and from the earliest time carriages made in India had been found the best and most enduring.
 MAJOR WINDSOR PARKER  said, that he considered the item of nearly £6,000 for sweeping chimneys a monstrous one. 1094
 MAJOR WINDSOR PARKER  asked the right hon. Gentleman to state the nature of reports made by the officers of the regiments who now inspected the clothing supplied, whether by the Government or by private contractors.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, the time was when the only object of an Englishman was to come into personal contact with his foe and strike him to the ground. We were now fighting behind iron plates in our ships, while on shore we proposed to defend ourselves behind stone and brick walls. The change was quite unworthy of the ancient English character.
 COLONEL SYKES  knew that there was nothing more irritating to the army than incessant meddling with the uniforms and badges of the various regiments.
 COLONEL SYKES : Then the inspectors will not be continued when those contracts are completed?
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that he held the maintenance of permanent Government factories of small-arms to be pernicious, as they checked competition in industry and ingenuity.
 COLONEL SYKES  asked, for an explanation of the increase of £52,520 for fuel for North America, and £29,273 for New Zealand.
 COLONEL SYKES  asked, whether arms were still purchased from foreign manufacturers, notwithstanding the Government had its own establishments for making them. If they were not, what was the use of maintaining officers at Liege and elsewhere to inspect them?
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he was astonished at the charge of £5,985 for sweeping chimneys. Surely there must be some mistake.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he thought that some explanation ought to be given of the excess over last year's vote of £8,000, caused partly by the employment of extra clerks, and also of the employment of a captain in the navy with a salary of £1,200, independent of his half-pay, as director of stores and clothing for the army.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  intimated his intention of pressing his Amendment. The officers of the Guards had a mess-room like other gentlemen of the army, for they had what they called "a club." He was aware that any reduction of a Vote for the army would always be opposed by military men.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS : When were those contracts entered into?
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  observed, that from the observations made that evening as to the employment of those regiments, it was clear that their services were made use of for police purposes. That being so, it was too hard to call on this country to pay for them.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  objected to the item of £5,004 for table allowances at St. James's and Dublin. He never saw more than four or five sentinels on duty at St. James's Palace, and he could not believe that a table at the public expense was required there for the officers. The superior officers of the Guards received nearly 50 per cent more pay than those of the Line, and altogether enjoyed such vast advantages that they amounted to a disrespect of the Line. He should move that the Vote be reduced by £5,004.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, that an officer of the Guards cost the country much less than an officer of the Line, because, instead of barrack accommodation being found them at the public expense, the officers of the Guards found their own lodging, and consequently had no mess-room. The hon. Member was quite mistaken in supposing that any jealousy of the Guards existed in the Line. He was quite satisfied that if the Line had the option of doing away with the privileges of the Guards, they would be against it. It was true the Guards were exempt from colonial duty, but whenever the country was in danger every one knew that the
 1101
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  suggested, that the experiment should be tried of making articles of clothing in the barracks, as was done in the continental services. In France, for instance, every article worn by the soldier, with the exception of the eagle on his shako, was made in barracks. He believed that by the adoption of the same
 1090
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  pointed out, that if these premises were once purchased, there was much less probability than before of the Government ever ceasing to supply clothing largely. He again recommended that the clothing should be made in the regiments, which would give the men occupation and would excite a useful rivalry as to which regiment should be the best clothed. At present there was a want of occupation in the army, and the plan he suggested had been found to work very well in Fiance.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he approved of the plan of the First Commissioner of Works. He saw no objection to the throwing open to carriages during the Exhibition of a much larger portion of Hyde Park, from the Marble Arch to Apsley House and to the Queen's Gate. [An hon. MEMBER: And to omnibuses?] Yes. Equestrians might ride on the grass as they did formerly. He also approved of the suggestion of the hon. Baronet (Sir Morton Peto) that the whole of the bridge should be given up to carriages, that equestrians might be accommodated by a pontoon bridge, and the foot passengers by a slight bridge of timber. He thought Hamilton Place might be thrown open.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, that young men after their course at Sandhurst were perfectly qualified to go into the country and make sketches on which military operations could be undertaken. It was a great advantage to have a number of young officers trained in that manner.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  thought the explanation of the right hon. Baronet very unsatisfactory. He considered that
 1074
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, certain points in the Vote required more explanation than the right hon. Gentlemen had given. The Vote was very important, because it was the first of a series which disposed of several millions, and it was extremely doubtful whether those millions were wisely or prudently laid out. In 1860–1 more than 13,000 were employed in the manufacturing establishments; in 1861–2 the number was reduced to 12,000; and now the Committee was asked to vote 10,070 workmen, and to find materials for their employment. Those were large items, and the points he should have liked to hear more clearly elucidated were—what was the cost of the establishments, what means the right hon. Gentleman had of knowing that cost, who kept the accounts, and how the accounts were kept? In 1860 a very important Committee had sat for the purpose of investigating those subjects. Amongst other leading Members of that Committee were Sir James Graham, the right hon. and gallant Member for Huntingdon (General Peel), the right hon. Member for Coventry (Mr. Ellice), and the hon. and gallant General the Member for Wigan (General Lindsay); the House, therefore, had every guarantee that was necessary to assure them that the best attention would be given to the subject. That Committee discovered several defects, and they reported that a change in the then existing system of paying and accounting was necessary to secure economy in the administration of military affairs. Amongst other statements, the Report contained the following:—
 "The arrangements are by no means satisfactory; there is no general cashier, no general paymaster. Each head of department employs his own labourers and fixes the rate of their wages. Public money is placed in private banks to the credit of each department, without any security." 1083 1084
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to call attention to the enormous increase in the allowance for law expenses. It was something fabulous. The estimated sum last year was £11,000, which was an immense increase on the charge in former years, and now it was £15,500. One really would have expected that the Horse Guards army was going to law, and not to war. He would move to reduce the vote by £4,000.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, that representing a constituency at a distance from London, he objected to the Vote, on the broad ground that it was not for a
 1132
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he thought the proposed road was merely a
 1134
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he could not agree with the hon. Member for Honiton (Mr. Cochrane) that the plan was the worst that could be proposed, nor could he agree with the hon. Gentleman that it was the best that could be suggested. The worst plan he (Sir John Pakington) thought was the one that the right hon. Gentleman had so wisely abandoned—namely, that extraordinary plan for which he proposed to take a Vote of £30,000. It struck him very strongly that the most direct and convenient course to take was that which his hon. Friend (Mr. Cochrane) had adverted to—that of allowing the public carriages to make use of the north walk. It could be done at the least expense, and would be by far the most convenient for all purposes. He should be glad to hear what objection the right hon. Gentleman could have to it.
 SIR MATTHEW RIDLEY  expressed his opinion that young men were well disciplined in the public schools and colleges.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, the road which the right hon. Gentleman had indicated was the one which he (Sir Morton Peto) suggested to him the other night. He thought it the very best that could be made. He did not, however, concur with his noble Friend in his suggestion as to the construction of the pontoon bridge. He would suggest that Colonel Fowke, who had signally succeeded in the Exhibition Building—[ Cries of 1131
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he should take the opinion of the Committee on the Vote for fortifications in the Ionian Islands, as he considered the evidence of the Chancellor of the Exchequer conclusive on that point.
 SIR MORTON PETO  explained, that by a comprehensive plan he meant that these Votes should be prepared with some care and attention, and not put forward in a haphazard kind of way. He had always opposed the fortification scheme.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, that if these Votes were proposed on some comprehensive plan, they would be much more satisfactory.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he wished to call attention to the Vote items of £61,584 for clerks of works, and foremen of works and clerks, on the Engineer civil establishments, only to guard himself against being supposed to approve the principle of it. He would not discuss the
 1092
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he desired to ask, whether a practice which prevailed at the Admiralty prevailed also at the War Office—namely, that as long as the department kept within the expenditure sanctioned by that House as the total amount of the Vote, and also kept within the amount placed in column one as the entire estimated cost of each work,
 1118
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that answer was perfectly satisfactory. He only wished that the same practice was adhered to by the Admiralty.
 MR. CAVE  was also in favour of the continued manufacture of soldiers' clothing at Pimlico. He was not surprised to hear of the contractors, when he considered the of the superiority of the work over that starving rate of wages paid by the latter to their work-people.
 MR. CAVE  asked, whether he was to understand the right hon. Gentleman that the practice of recruiting in the West Indian islands was to be continued, and that no attempt was to be made to recruit on the African coast?
 MR. CAVE  would not object to the Vote for the new West Indian Regiment if it was likely to be efficient, because he thought that the black regiments, when properly raised, were of the greatest value in preserving internal tranquillity and relieving the white troops. Formerly these
 1097
 MAJOR BARTTELOT  said, the real fact of the case was, that this dinner was supplied to the Guards as the guard of the Sovereign at St. James's. The dinner was laid for eight; five Guardsmen and three Life Guardsmen. The Line was not excluded, because in Dublin they had it provided for them just as it was for the Guards at St. James's. He thought, therefore, the item ought not to be expunged. If the hon. Gentleman had the pleasure of going into the mess-room, he would not object to vote.
 MAJOR BARTTELOT  said, that the grievance of frequent changes in the uniform of cavalry regiments had been felt for many years. He quite agreed with the hon. Member for Liskeard (Mr. Bernal Osborne) as to the hardship to the officers of the Light Dragoon regiments changed to Hussars, in having at great expense to supply themselves with new uniforms before the old were worn out. He had served for many years in a cavalry regiment, and he could state that from the time of the Prince Regent the greatest disgust was felt among the officers at the changes which not only year by year, but sometimes month by month, were made in their uniforms. These alterations were a peculiar hardship upon Quartermasters, Riding-masters, and Adjutants, who had risen from the ranks, who were called upon to incur great expense for the benefit of contractors and tailors, with no advantage whatever to the service. If the right hon. Gentleman could check that great and crying evil, it would be a great boon to the army, and he would receive the
 1100
 MAJOR BARTTELOT  said, he perfectly agreed with what had fallen from his hon. and gallant Friend with regard to this case of hardship But the cornet suffered a reduction not of 8½ d a day but of twice 8½ d., because he had to keep two horses, a lieutenant three, and a captain four. Though the Government had lately recommended that they should be allowed to purchase their horses out of the troop horses, yet they had not been able to do so, and therefore they had to buy their horses at great expense, and to keep them for the public service. It was therefore a hardship and a grievance that they should be called upon to pay for forage. He begged heartily to second the Amendment.
 MAJOR BARTTELOT  said, he hoped that the item of £3,400 would be sufficient for insuring a water supply at Aldershot, which was greatly needed.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  contended, that floating defences, such as those proposed, could never be so applicable at the moment to the object sought to be attained, or so effectual, as defences on shore. Of the justice of that view an instance had been furnished in the Danish war, in which the superiority of even earthen batteries thrown up on a sudden to vessels had been shown in the case of a Danish ship of the line and a frigate, one of which had been taken and the other destroyed by a battery of six guns, thrown up by the Duke of Coburg on the shore. A battery was always ready and on the spot, and he had no doubt those interested in the harbour of Bristol would prefer it as a means of defence to a number of gunboats stationed in Cork harbour or in Plymouth. The fact was, that some time must elapse before the aid of these gunboats could be made available in the event of a sudden emerge nest, while it must also be borne in mind that the hostile force might be superior to the gunboats at command. The principles of common sense, then, he thought, pointed out that means of defence on shore was preferable. If the Government had proposed a large sum for the purposes of such defence, some hon. Gentlemen would, no doubt, object to the extravagance of laying out so much money for the protection of commercial harbours. As the case stood, however, the sum was said to be too small; but when he informed the Committee that good judges of military defence had pronounced it to be sufficient, he did not think the Vote could reasonably be objected to on the score of its amount.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the gallant Officer should know the reason why sometimes the whole sum voted was not expended. Until the Estimate was voted, the drawings could not be made out or the contracts entered into. That took a considerable time; and, when the Estimate was voted late in the Session of last year, the winter came on and the works were interrupted by the weather. That was the reason why it was often impossible to do in the financial year the works which were estimated and voted for in the course of the year.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The defect that was mentioned was certainly much felt in the early period of the use of the gun. The objection was that the lead placed on the iron shot, in order to make it fit the interior groove, stripped off soon after the projectile quitted the muzzle of the piece. That difficulty has now been corrected. The lead is fastened in a manner that prevents it from stripping off until the shot either strikes the ground,  en ricochet,
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, I can quite understand objections to unnecessary change. But really the objections taken in the course of this discussion, if followed out, would go to this extent—that our cavalry ought now to appear as they did in old times, with pigtails, plastered heads, and cocked hats.
 MR. LESLIE  said, he would now beg to ask the Lord Advocate, Whether the Salmon Fisheries (Scotland) Bill, and the Roads and Bridges (Scotland) Bill, will be brought forward during the present Session?
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  replied, that the Roads and Bridges Bill of last year had given rise to so much difficulty, and so much difference of opinion had been expressed on the subject, that he did not propose to introduce any measure of the kind during the present Session. With regard to the Salmon Fisheries, without going the length to which the Bill of last year extended, he thought it might
 1156
 MR. LESLIE  said, he also wished to ask the Lord Advocate, Whether in the event of an Education Bill for Scotland being in contemplation, Government would consent to the appointment of a Royal Commission to inquire into and report upon the subject of and circumstances affecting Education generally, prior to the introduction of any new measure or any change in the system at present in operation in Scotland?
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, there was no probability of the appointment of such a Commission.
 LORD ADOLPHUS VANE TEMPEST  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether Her Majesty's Government will sanction the issue of clothing, at contract price, to regiments of Volunteers; also, whether they will consider the expediency of giving a contingent allowance per man (according to the strength of the corps at the annual inspection), in aid of the renewal of clothing and equipments?
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : In answer, Sir, to the question of the noble Lord, I may state that it is the intention of the Government to issue cloth to Volunteers at contract price, with 5 per cent for establishment and other charges. The War Office will undertake to supply one description of gray cloth to be decided on by a Committee of Volunteers. The cloth so furnished will be obtained from the Government at from 15 to 20 per cent less than it can be obtained from the trade. A circular will shortly be issued from the War Office on this subject.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he would endeavour to confine himself as closely as possible to the subject of the blockade. The case of the screw steamer  Bermuda Bermuda, Bermuda 1205 Mercantile Weekly Reporter 1206 "The Federal Government, with a view of closing the passages, have sunk a number of vessels laden with stones off the harbours of Charleston and Savannah." 1207 1208 Trent 1209
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, * 1210 1211 "The judicial decisions in England and in this country have given great precision to the law of blockade, by the application of it to particular cases, and by the extent, and clearness, and equity of their illustrations. They are distinguished, likewise, for general coincidence and harmony in their principles." 1212 1213 bonâ fide à priori 1214 malâ fide 1215 "The investing Power must be able to place its force at every point of the blockaded place, so as to render it dangerous to attempt to enter …. There is no blockade of that part where its power cannot be brought to bear." bonâ fide, 1216 Rolla, 1217 1218 Herald 1219 1220 1221 1222 bonâ fide 1223 1224 1225
 ADMIRAL WALOOTT : Sir, previous speakers have so fully dilated upon the subject before the House, that they have left no words to be added. I would, however, venture to offer one passing remark, which I cannot forbear to make. The attempt to eke out an inefficient and to give the semblance of an effectual blockade of the coast line of their enemies by the Federal squadron, by means of sinking a number of vessels laden with stone at the entrance of the port of Charleston, which was intended to result in the destruction of a harbour which Divine Providence had afforded, is a most barbarous and unprecedented proceeding. In my opinion, it will be an indelible blot on the escutcheon of the United States, and when the present excitement of men's minds has calmed down, a national shame.
 MR. CRAWFORD  thought the composition of the Committee not altogether satisfactory. The manufacturing interest was represented upon it, but not the interest of the vendors, and he gave notice that on Monday he should move that the hon. Member for Honiton (Mr. Moffatt) be added to the Committee.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that the composition of the Committee had been very carefully considered by the President of the Board of Trade and himself.
 MR. MOFFATT  observed, that the punishment under the Bill would fall on the vendors, and not on the manufacturers, and he therefore conceived that the interest of the vendors should be fairly represented on the Committee.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he was not surprised that the splendid speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman should be welcomed with such merited approbation, nor was he surprised that the hon. and learned Gentleman should have dropped the word "Court" instead of "House," as the tribunal which he was addressing, since the splendid legal subtleties upon
 1226 1227 "The dissent of the Government from the position which seems to be assumed in your note, that temporary absence impairs the blockade or renders necessary new notice of its existence. This Government will hold that the blockade took place on the 11th of this month, and will be fully in effect until notice of its relinquishment shall be given by the President of the United States." Sarah Star 1228 1229 1230
 MR. LEFROY  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If the
 1157
 MR. LAYARD  said, he was not able to give any information in addition to that he had already given. He had stated that the two gentlemen in question landed at Tangiers from a steamer, and that the United States Consul, hearing that two American citizens were on shore, asked
 1231
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether he has any means of correcting the information he has already given as to the arrest and reported release of two Officers of the  Sumter
 MR. BENTINCK , in seconding the Motion said, that if he proposed to confine himself to the topic which had just been so ably put before the House, he should not feel it necessary to add a single word; but there was another question besides that of the validity of the blockade, to be disposed of—namely, the question of the recognition by this country of the independence of the Southern States of America. Before, however, adverting to that part of the discussion, he wished to disencumber the subject from one element, the introduction of which would produce extreme inconvenience. He alluded to the question of the abolition of slavery. The Northern and the Southern States stood in precisely the same position with regard to this institution—there was nothing to choose between them. It was perfectly true that the institution of slavery dominated in the South, but the North had been perfectly concurrent parties. Then how did this country stand in relation to the matter; and what would be the effect of introducing the question of slavery into the discussion before the House? Going back to the time when large sums were voted as compensation to slave owners, it should be borne in mind that there were in this country persons who had received great sums for emancipating their slaves. Did any reproach now attach to the recipients of those sums? What was the fact as to slave-grown sugar? What was the conduct of this country recently, and what was the answer of this House when an appeal was made to it, not long ago, to impose differential duties upon slave-grown sugar? The answer was, that they preferred the
 1182 1183 1184 Vattel, à fortiori 1185 Habeas Corpus 1186 1187
 MR. BRIGHT : I did not say that.
 MR. SPEAKER : It appears to me that the matter is not one of order, but of discretion.
 MR. HENNESSY : I rise to order. I submit, Sir, with great respect, that as the proceedings at this election are to form the subject of a Parliamentary inquiry—as Colonel White's agent has given notice to the agent of the hon. Member for Long-ford, and that fact has come to the knowledge of the Government—the right hon.
 1158
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES : My hon. Friend the Member for Galway told us, as one of his reasons for introducing this subject, that it was desirable we should consider this particular question before we next week approach the general principle of maritime international law. I beg to differ from him on that point, and I think it would be far better to lay down some general principle with regard to the general question of the law of blockade as affected by the present circumstances of the world, and the improvements in naval science, before we proceed to make an exceptional case for America. There was a great discrepancy between my hon. Friend's eloquent speech and the poorness of the Motion with which he concluded; but it was still more discordant that, with so little practical interest to bear upon the matter, he should have brought forward a discussion which means nothing more nor less than a war between Great Britain and the United States—for we can hardly suppose that the United States Government will consent to be excepted from the general operation of the law of nations, or to be made a subject on which we might try a new system of international law. If the question before us were of that serious gravity which his conclusions would lead us to suppose, we should not now be discussing it in a quiet debate; we should
 1201 1202 1203 animus 1204
 MR. LOWE : The answer, Sir, to my right hon. Friend is this. During the year which will elapse from the 31st of March, 1862, to the 31st of March, 1863, all schools which are now aided by the Privy Council will be examined and paid on the principle of the old original Code; and therefore if, during that year, the managers do not make an arrangement for paying pupil-teachers, that will not prevent them from receiving the grant which they would be paid if there was no Revised Code. But after the 31st of March, 1863, managers can only receive one of two grants—either a grant for pupil-teachers only; or, in case they undertake to pay the pupil-teachers themselves, such capitation Grant as they will be entitled to under the New Code.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council, Whether the Managers of Schools who do not, after the 31st day of March, 1862, undertake to provide and pay the full stipends and gratuities now severally payable on account of pupil-teachers during their current apprenticeships, will be entitled to claim any; and, if any, what portion of the Capitation Grant proposed to be paid under the regulations of the Revised Code?
 MR. W. E. FORSTER : Sir, I do not rise for the purpose of following the remarks and arguments of the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, because I cannot but think that the speech he has made was prepared for delivery on the occasion of the Motion of which my hon. Friend the Member for Galway (Mr. Gregory) gave notice last year, rather than for the Motion which he has brought forward to night. But, before any Member of Her Majesty's Government replies to the charges which my hon. Friend has made, I trust the House will allow me a short time for taking a very different view of the facts to that which has been presented to them. This question with regard to the American blockade must be considered as a question of law and as a question of fact. The legal question I shall not attempt to meddle with, but leave it for some Member of Her Majesty's Government, from whom the House may expect explanations. I fully agree with the hon. Member for Galway, that if it can be proved that the blockade, according to international law, and especially according to our interpretation of international law, is illegal, either because it is not effective or from any other cause, then it would be a breach of neutrality for us to advocate its continuance. I quite agree that if it could be proved that, according to the interpretation of international law as between us and the United States in times past, the present blockade is not a legal one, then the Southern States have a right to say that we are infringing the principle of neutrality. But if it cannot he proved that, according to strict international law, the blockade is illegal, then to break it would be a still greater breach of neutrality, because an act of commission requires more care in its performance than an act of omission. As to what constitutes a legal and efficient blockade, I am not the person to decide—that I leave to the legal advisers of the Government; just premising, that when my hon. Friend takes it for granted that the United States are bound by the letter of the Treaty of Paris, I demur, inasmuch as they were no parties to that treaty. But I do not wish it to be supposed that they were not bound by the
 1188 "The fact that various ships may have successfully escaped through it (as in the particular instances here referred to) will not of itself prevent the blockade from being an effective one by international law." Niagara 1189 1190 1191 Bermuda. Bermuda Nashville. Nashville, Nashville, 1192 Sumter 1193 1194 1195 1196 1197
 MR. GREGORY : That this is the most effective blockade in the annals of the world, because cotton, which costs 4 d. per pound at New Orleans, costs 1  s 2d 1171 "I am very apprehensive that the blockade is not being carried out with a due regard to the established principles of international law, or to the rights and interests of neutrals. No sufficiently public or official notice appears to be given of the precise date of the beginning of the effective blockade in each locality, or of the exact limits to which it extends. If the statement in the enclosed newspaper extract is correct, the terms of the warning given by the  Niagara Niagara, 1172 "I hasten to express the dissent of the Government from the position which seems to be assumed in your note, that that 'temporary' absence impairs the blockade, and renders necessary a new notice of its existence." sic volo, sic jubeo; "It is true that the  Niagara "Without desiring to impugn the correctness of Mr. Seward's statement to a greater degree than may be necessary to establish the truth, I will only remark that neither the  Harriet Lane 1173 "At the moment at which I am writing there is no blockading ship whatever, nor has there been for upwards of twenty-four hours, although no bad weather has arisen to drive a ship off the coast. In fact, I have no hesitation in saying that the blockade of this portion of the American coast is effective only as regards large vessels, the property for the most part of neutrals, whilst the coasting trade between Charleston and the ports of North Carolina, of Georgia, and of Florida, conducted in steamers of light draught, and schooners of from 100 to 300 tons burthen, goes on unmolested." "The several privateers which have sailed from this and other Southern ports, are making captures every day, and sending their prizes into all the ports, quite unmolested by any of the ships of the United States. In North Carolina the same state of things prevails. Even the little steamer the  Daylight, 1174 "The coasting trade continues in full force, and I feel quite assured that were larger vessels to approach the coast, they could easily enter almost any of the ports." "I have the honour to report that the blockade of this port continues to be conducted with the laxity which has hitherto distinguished it. Vessels of various sizes enter and sail almost at pleasure." "Ingress into the port of Charleston has certainly been allowed at all times, since the first establishment of the blockade, to steam transports in the service of the Confederates, which have come in from the surrounding coasts with the Confederate flag flying, in full sight of the blockading squadron. Similar ingress has not been allowed to any other vessels." "The blockade has been adequate to cause obvious danger to large vessels, but totally inadequate to prevent the ingress of small vessels from 50 to 300 tons, and drawing less than ten feet of water. The above remarks apply to the port of Charleston. Of the ports between it and Savannah I can safely say there has been no blockade at all." "Off Wilmington, up to two or three days ago, there has been no blockading vessel, except the  Daylight, "Since the beginning of September the blockade of this port has been less strictly maintained than at any period since its commencement. Intermissions of the blockade have lately been very
 1175 "The blockade of the coast to the south of this has all along been maintained in a very ineffective manner, and at the present moment as much so. as ever. The vessels employed are too few in number; they merely cruise up and down, visiting for a day or two at a time one harbour after another. The consequence has been that many vessels run in and out, to and from various points on the coast, without seeing a blockading vessel. …. Another proof of the inefficiency of the blockade of the coast consists in the fact that since the commencement of the blockade the line of steamers between this city and the St. John's River, Florida, has kept up an uninterrupted communication." The Times "It is said that insurances are being effected daily on ships and cargoes about to run the blockade of the Southern ports. The highest premium paid is fifteen guineas, the ship being entitled to select any port. In some instances the risk to a single port of easy access has been as low as ten guineas. Nearly all the vessels so insured are steamers of about 1,500 tons burden." The Times 1176 The Times: "The Federal Gevernment itself has emphatically admitted the failure of their naval blockade by an act of barbarity which is unparalleled in the history of national wars. They have actually endeavoured to undo what Columbus had done—to shut up from mankind for ever the ports which the great discoverer opened to the human race, and to destroy by artificial impediments the gates by which men of all nations enter and pass out
 1177 "Plus condamnable encore est l'obstruction des ports, car ce n'est pas seulement la génération présente, ce sont les générations futures qu'on prive de leur patrimoine. Les ports, les fleuves, que Dieu a donnés à l'univers pour faciliter les communications et les échanges, sont un dépô t sacré fait à l'humanité toute entière, et que nul ne peut aliéner sans crime." 1178 exequatur exequatur 1179 1180 1181 "To leave out from the word 'That' to the end of the Question, in order to add the words 'an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, that She will be graciously pleased to give directions that there be laid before this House, Copy of any Correspondence relative to the Blockade of the Ports of the Confederate States of America, subsequent to the Papers presented to this House.'"
 MR. GREGORY : Sir, before going into Committee of Supply I wish to call the
 1159 1160 1161 de jure de facto, 1162 "Among the fictitious blockades invented by belligerents, it will be sufficient to allude to the blockade by cruisers, to which the Northern States have resorted, and still resort, in their quarrel with the Confederate States. It consists in sending one or more vessels to cruise at a distance off a coast, the blockade of which has been previously proclaimed; and all neutral vessels sailing towards or from that coast are seized and confiscated as having run or attempted to run the blockade. By this system a despatch-boat, with a couple of guns, can maintain a blockade of a seaboard of 100 or 200 leagues in extent," 1163 "How does it happen that England, to-day a neutral Power, consents to acknowledge a blockade of this description? Is it not that this nation, which has always and for so many centuries contrived to obtain such advantages for itself by paper blockades, which has so often and so odiously abused these means, contrary to all laws human and divine, to ruin neutrals, feels by no means sorry to preserve this immense resource for the moment, which she always foresees, when she shall be belligerent? The manœuvre is a skilful one. It consists in permitting at present the United States to interpret in their sense all existing treaties, to accept that interpretation, and even to apply it to the Declaration of April 16, 1856, in order that she may lay claim to be perfectly justified in following the same jurisprudence when Great Britain shall herself be involved in hostilities." 1164 "The fact is, the President and the Government of the Confederate States are a good deal annoyed at the refusal of France and England, and other nations, to allow  prizes to be 1165 1166 1167 "The squadron allotted for the purpose of the execution of the blockade must be competent to cut off all communication with the interdicted place or port. The failure of either of the points requisite to establish the existence of a legal blockade amounts to an entire defeasance of the measure." "The Government of the United States has uniformly insisted that the blockade should be effective by the presence of a competent force stationed and present at or near the entrance of the port, and they have protested with great energy against the application of the right of seizure and confiscation in case of ineffectual and inefficient blockades." "The occasional absence of a squadron does not suspend a blockade; but if the blockade be raised by the enemy, or by the employment of the naval force or part of it, though only for a time, to other objects, or by the mere remissness of the cruisers, the commerce of neutrals with the place ought to be free." Nancy; "The capture is contrary to international law, because it was the duty of the blockaders to maintain such a force as would be of itself sufficient to enforce the blockade. This could only be effected by keeping up a number of vessels on the different stations so communicating with each other as to be able to intercept all vessels." 1168 "The usual and regular mode of enforcing blockades is by stationing a number of ships, and forming as it were a circle of circumvallation round the mouth of a prohibited port. Then, if the arch fails in any one part, the blockade itself fails." "This rule has not for a long time been regarded as uncertain, or the cause of any 'deplorable disputes If there have been any disputes in regard to blockades, the uncertainty was about the facts, but not the law. Those nations which have resorted to what are properly denominated 'paper blockades,' have rarely, if ever, undertaken afterwards to justify their conduct upon principle, but have generally admitted the illegality of the practice and indemnified the injured parties." "Her Majesty's Government have had under their consideration the state of the blockade of the ports of Charleston and Wilmington. It ap-
 1169 "The adequacy of the force to maintain a blockade being always and necessarily a matter of fact and evidence, and one as to which different opinions may be entertained, a neutral State ought to exercise the greatest caution with reference to the disregard of a  de facto "From time to time the French Ambassador and some other Representatives of the Maritime States have asked me whether the British Government was prepared to interfere in this matter of the blockade." 1170 ab initio The Times,
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  thought, that infinite credit was due to the hon. Member for Galway (Mr. Gregory) for having abstained from enlarging upon those claims to sympathy which the Southern States might present, and for having confined himself to the main point for discussion—whether there was sufficient ground or not for interference with the blockade of the Southern ports. Irritating discussions upon the internal affairs of the United States could produce no good results; whose people, no doubt, held different opinions from ours upon the question of constitutional law which determined the justice or injustice of the act of secession. Public men in this country had observed remarkable reticence upon this difficult question, and he was glad that both the hon. Member for Galway and the hon. Gentleman who took an opposite view had kept clear of embarrassing topics. He confessed that he rose with great diffidence to follow the able speech of the hon. Member (Mr. Forster) who had analysed so closely the list presented by the British Agents in the Southern States of America of those vessels that had escaped the blockade. Now, unless our agents had thought the sailing of these vessels an infraction of the blockade, they would hardly have made representations which they knew would be presented to Parliament in the form of a blue-book. Without travelling through the earlier months of the year, when it might be questionable whether the sailing of these vessels was an infraction of the blockade or not, he would refer to the list for October and November last. Now, if the reports by the British Consuls were good for anything, they must be taken as conclusive on the question of the efficiency or inefficiency of the blockade. On the 11th of October, the Acting Consul at Savannah reported that since the beginning of September the blockade had been less strictly maintained than at any period since its commencement, and that the line of steamers to St. Johns had continued to run uninterruptedly. Mr. Bunch, writing about the same date from Charleston, stated that some vessels arrived there almost daily. In one of the last despatches Captain Lyons,
 1198 1199 1200
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Lefroy) asked me whether the Government intended to take any measures in consequence of the scenes that have occurred at this election? They did take precautionary measures. There was a large military force, a force of constabulary, and three special stipendiary magistrates in the county; but probably they were not sufficient for the purpose intended. However, I believe the Government have given orders that all persons who can be proved to have been engaged in these violent proceedings shall be followed up and prosecuted as the law may direct.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : The subject, Sir, which the hon. Member has brought under the notice of the House is one which, I must say, has excited very general interest, and given rise to strong feelings in the minds of a great many Gentlemen on both sides of the House. For myself, I am not at all surprised, considering the scenes which undoubtedly have taken place within the last few days in Longford, that the hon. Gentleman should give expression to feelings of indignation on the subject; more especially as tenants of the hon. Gentleman, as well as tenants of other gentlemen, and the Protestant Pastor of a parish in the county of Longford, have been maltreated, and half-murdered, I believe, by a violent and lawless mob. I am bound to say that the information which has appeared in the newspapers by no means comes up to the state of the case; because I believe that the scenes of outrage, intimidation, and violence which have occurred at Longford were such as have not been witnessed in Ireland for a great many years. I do not know what course may be pursued on the subject, but from the reports received by the Government I am led to believe that this election—or mockery of election, as I suppose I may call it—will be subjected to a Parliamentary inquiry. Of course I am not able to say what proceedings will be adopted in the matter, but I believe that freedom of election has not been at all exercised by the people.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he had on a previous occasion put a question to the Secretary for War as to whether certain arrangements had been made with respect to the War Office accounts, in conformity mainly with the recommendations of the Committee on Military Organization; but the right hon. Gentleman in his reply entirely passed over the chief points to which the question related. What he wanted to know was, whether the right hon. Gentleman, or any of the officers under him, knew the cost of the raw materials of the articles manufactured in his department, and the total cost of those articles? It was quite clear, unless the right hon. Baronet knew the cost of the raw material, he could not tell the cost of the article produced; and if he did not know the cost of the article, he could not say that he could manufacture it more cheaply than the same article could he obtained by contract. He wanted to know, therefore, whether the system of the War Office accounts, embraced all the accounts of the department, both chief and subsidiary, so that the right hon. Gentleman could state what was the money value of the several articles produced?
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : The manufactures carried on under the direction of the War Department are on a very large scale, and the number of articles produced in the course of a year is very great. The whole matter is very properly a subject of jealous inquiry on the part of this House, and I think, therefore, the hon. Baronet's question is perfectly legitimate. 1248
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he was surprised to find that the stores had been sent out to Canada, not in the summer or the autumn, but in the winter of last year, when their conveyance had involved a large additional expense. In the course of the summer things seemed to wear an unpleasant appearance between Mr. Seward, the American minister, and the Foreign Office in this country, and he had been informed that the Canadian government had then asked, not for troops, but for stores, and more especially for arms.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he thought that his noble Friend at the head of the Government had on a former occasion sufficiently explained why reinforcements were not sent out to Canada in the autumn, that reason being that the Canadian Government did not desire that reinforce-
 1249
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  explained that he had only referred to stores.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that the only ground for sending out more stores than were required for the troops then in Canada would have been in order that the militia might be armed. No doubt the Government might have taken that course, but the militia were not then in a state of activity, and Government did not then apprehend any hostilities with the United States.
 COLONEL DICKSON,  adverting to the item of £26,100 for the purchase of part of Mr. Dimes's new factory at Pimlico, said, that the House might naturally suppose that the Government proposed to purchase a building already rented and used, but he believed that the building in question was one in the course of construction for the purposes of the Government; and, after the order for it had been given, the House was asked to pay a sum of £26,000. If arrangements of that kind were made without the cognizance of the House, it would be impossible to say to what extent these manufacturing establishments might increase.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  stated, that the building was in process of construction on Mr. Dimes's land and at that gentleman's expense; and if the Vote should not be confirmed by the House, the Government, according to the arrangement made, would have to rent the building from Mr. Dimes The principal purpose of the building was to provide additional room for stores, and Mr. Dimes was willing to erect the premises at his own cost, provided an adequate rent fur them were paid by the Government. It was thought, however, that the more economical plan for the Government would be to purchase the land with the building on it. In reference to some remarks made by the hon. Member for Liskeard (Mr. B. Osborne) on a previous night, respecting the clothing for the army, he now wished to state that all the great-coats were made at Pimlico and the Government prisons; that the tunics for the infantry were divided about equally between the Pimlico establishment and the trade; and that, with respect to trousers, a large store existed when the last contract was made, but in future tenders equal numbers of tunics and trousers
 1250
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that on this Resolution he would take the opportunity of answering a question put to him by the right hon. and gallant Member for Huntingdon (General Peel) with respect to what seemed to be an excess of 3,000 men over the number voted last year. Those men were additional troops for the artillery, when that force was increased under the direction of the War Department; and the expense was to be defrayed by arrangement between the Indian Government and the War Department, so that these men did not appear among the number voted last year, nor did the charge for them really form part of the Estimates. With respect to the Vote for barracks, the House would perhaps bear in mind that in Committee of Supply a Motion was made for the reduction of the sum by £10,787, proposed as an additional charge for Sandhurst College. That Motion was affirmed by the Committee, so that the additional charge for Sandhurst was struck out of the Estimates. In consequence of that decision it became his duty to inquire how that reduction could be carried into effect, and he found the following to be the state of the case:—A Vote of £15,000 for the same service was taken last year, and a contract was entered into late in the year for nearly the whole amount, with the view of making an addition to the building at Sandhurst. The sum already expended up to the end of December was £953. The work had since proceeded, and he understood that by the end of the present quarter the contractor would be entitled to the payment on the whole of about £5,000. If, in consequence of the vote of the Committee the War Office were to give notice that the rest of the contract could not be completed, the contractor would, of course, be entitled to a compensation, probably amounting to £5,000. It would also be necessary to incur a further expense for pulling down the building (as it could not remain in its present state), and removing the materials, so that the whole expense would be about£12,000. Now, the whole Vote asked by the Government the other night only amounted to £10,787; and that being the state of the case, he thought he should not be
 1251 "I am directed by Secretary Sir George Lewis to acquaint you that, having the subject of the admission into the army and into the Royal Military College at Sandhurst of the Students of the University of Cambridge under his consideration, and having conferred thereon with his Royal Highness the General Commanding-in-Chief, he has caused letters on the subject to be addressed to the Vice Chancellors of the Oxford and Dublin Universities, copies of which are enclosed, and I am to request, in the event of the University of Cambridge being also desirous of adopting the course approved in the case of the two Universities above-named, that you will be good enough to state for Sir George Lewis's information what are the examinations at Cambridge which may be considered equivalent to the first and second examination (called Responsion and Moderation) at the University of Oxford, in order that the Secretary of State may be able to determine the qualifications which may entitle the students of the University of Cambridge to exemption from any further examination of a preliminary character in those subjects on admission to Sandhurst as military cadets." 1252
 GENERAL PEEL  said, that as the vote was again to come on during the following week, he should for the present content himself by referring simply to the answer which the right hon. Gentleman had given to his question with respect to the 3,000 artillery, which were represented, as hon. Members would perceive by a reference to the Estimates, as being in India, whereas they were absolutely in this country. The fact was that those Estimates provided not for 145,450 men, which was the number the right hon. Gentleman asked the House to vote that year for the army, but for 153,074, which number included the depots of the regiments in India; so that any saving in our existing expenditure would depend upon whether the latter, not the former, number was exceeded. In dealing with the point he would dismiss from consideration altogether the sum to be paid by the Indian Government as a capitation rate on regiments in India, because it had no reference to the Estimates before the House, although it might affect the Ways and Means of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. With respect to the Indian depots, however, he might observe that they were not on the Indian establishment, and never would be until they went out to that country, where they would be no addition to the establishment there, inasmuch as they would be drawn upon merely to supply vacancies; their place in England being supplied by recruits, so that no diminution of expenditure in respect to those depots would be effected. It was by desire of the Indian Government, he believed, that the strength of the depots had been reduced from 200 to 100 men for each regiment, but he doubted whether that was not a measure which would produce rather apparent than actual economy, inasmuch as a recruit after a year's training was, after all, cheaper, because likely to be more efficient, than one who had gone through his drill for only
 1253
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he was afraid the change as to the Indian army was to some extent the cause of the confusion of which the right hon. and gallant. Gentleman complained. The Estimates for the year could not be presented in so clear a form as might be the case, owing to the transition state of the Indian army, consequent upon its amalgamation with the Queen's army. The fact was that as far as related to the old Queen's regiments in India no alteration had been made in the Estimates for the present year; the regiments in India being paid there, and the depôts at home being paid in this country, though in a somewhat different mode from that which had hitherto prevailed—namely, by means of a fixed capitation allowance. With respect to those regiments which had been converted from local into Queen's troops, he could only say it was perfectly impossible to give the required information concerning their depôts, inasmuch as they had not yet been formed. Before next year, however, these depots would be formed in this country, and then the capitation rate would apply to them, which was not now the case. The explanation so far as related to the artillery was somewhat different. To the old Royal artillery, which furnished men for the old batteries the capitation rate applied, but to the new local artillery, which was very much below the strength required to complete the Royal batteries—European being substituted to a great extent for native artillery—the rate was not applicable to meet the case of those new batteries of Artillery; therefore a Special arrangement had been made, which was that the whole expense of raising and recruiting them should be borne by this
 1254
 MR. SELWYN  said, the Motion which the Secretary for War had submitted to the House was one which could not fail to excite considerable surprise, though he hoped the House would follow the advice rather than the example set by the right hon. Baronet, and not discuss the question. The question of the extension of Sandhurst had always been regarded as financially important, but it had now assumed a still more serious aspect, for after the statement of the Secretary for War it must be considered as affecting the rights and privileges of that House. When the Vote was discussed in Committee of Supply, he had advisedly abstained from saying anything with respect to the pledge given by the Government last Session, that the sum then voted for the extension of Sandhurst should not be expended until certain information had been laid before the House. That was a painful subject, to which he was unwilling to refer. In the remarks he was about to make he had not the slightest mention of uttering a single word which could be personally offensive either to the Secretary of War, whose courtesy everybody must acknowledge, or to his subordinate, Earl de Grey and Ripon, to whom every friend of the Volunteer movement owed many and great obligations. But the question of Sandhurst was one with respect to which a grave responsibility rested upon the Government generally. Without going into the question at length, this much might be said, that after the pledge to which he alluded was given, the Government as a body must have known that the extension of the College of Sandhurst, or any great increase of students there, was a question in which the House, or at least a large section of it, took great interest. Under those circumstances the Estimates were submitted to the House, and the right hon. Baronet made a speech in which he referred to Sandhurst and the probable increase in the number of students. He (Mr. Selwyn) then placed on the paper a notice upon the subject, and it was discussed twice—once in the House and once in Committee of Supply; and it was not till after an adverse vote on the latter occasion that the right hon. Baronet informed the House that it had come to his knowledge that the subject of debate was in fact settled and determined; that net only had the money they were called on
 1255
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the Motion before the House was that the Vote be postponed. The next Question would be that the Vote should be taken into consideration on a subsequent day.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  observed, that in the few remarks he had made to the House on this question, he had stated that the Government had not, in point of fact, gone beyond the Vote of last Session. He would not attempt to answer the remarks of the hon. Gentleman, but would ask the House to reserve its opinion as to whether the Government had acted with had faith or not until it would be his duty to address the House on a future day.
 COLONEL KNOX  said, he would beg leave to remind the right hon. Baronet, that when his attention was called the other night to the question of Sandhurst, he stated that the Vote was only a contingent one. After that statement,
 1256
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, he must deny that any pledge was given by the Government last Session that the sum voted for the extension of Sandhurst would not be spent. What really took place last Session was this:—A discussion having arisen on the Vote in Committee of Supply, he offered, on the part of the Government, representing then as he did the War Office, that if the opposition was withdrawn, he would undertake that no money should be expended until the House should have ah opportunity of considering the question of military education; but hon. Gentlemen opposite did not agree to that proposition; a division took place, and the Vote was carried, though he admitted by a very small majority. The attention of the noble Lord the Prime Minister having been called to the alleged pledge, he (Mr. Baring) on a subsequent occasion, in answer to a statement made by the hon. Member for Windsor, distinctly stated what had occurred, and reminded the House that what he had said was, that if hon. Gentlemen did not withdraw their opposition, he was not prepared to give any pledge on the subject. On the 28th of June the discussion was renewed, and he then distinctly declined to say that the money should not be spent. In consequence, however, of that discussion, the Government re-considered the whole scheme of education at Sandhurst, and it was very much modified. The plan now proposed by the right hon. Secretary for War was quite different to that which was contemplated at the time the Vote was given.
 Mr. G. W. HOPE  said, that having been the Member who brought the question before the House last Session, he might state that the majority for the Government on the division was only five; and the House knew very well that if the Government made a reasonable proposition, and told them that they should have all the information on the subject before they
 1257
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that it was quite plain from the statements of hon. Gentlemen opposite that Government had committed no breach of faith whatever in making the contract which they had made. The subject was mooted last Session in the House whether the Government had made any pledge not to proceed with the extension of Sandhurst until the matter had been further discussed. It appeared, however, not only that they had made no pledge, but it was twice distinctly stated by the organ of the Government that they had given no pledge whatever, and therefore they were bound by none. Hon. Members might, if they pleased, question the propriety of what had been done; but he could not admit that the Government were in the least degree open to the charge of having broken faith with the House, or of having followed a course which the House was led by the declarations of last Session to believe they did not mean to pursue.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, that though he had no wish to accuse the Government of a breach of good faith, it must be evident to every one that they got their Vote passed last year under false pretences. His hon. Friend the Member for Windsor
 1258
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, he was bound to say that his hon. Friend late the Under Secretary for War had correctly represented what took place on the subject of the Vote during the last Session. It was clearly then stated, on condition of the withdrawal of opposition to the Vote, that a statement of the object of the Government in proposing it would be submitted at a future time. But the opposition was not withdrawn, and therefore the pledge was inoperative. He felt quite convinced, if the scheme of the Government had been explained, the mortification or defeat they suffered the other night would not have taken place.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he had then to move that Vote 14 be re-committed in Committee of Supply on the following Thursday.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he thought notice should be given by his right hon. Friend that he would, on Thursday next, move that the Vote be re-committed; then the House would have full opportunity of discussing it.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the proper form was for the right hon. Gentleman to move that Resolution No. 9, which had been postponed, be taken into consideration on Thursday next.
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, he had been able to refer to another discussion that took place last Session on the subject. The hon. Member for Windsor made a specific Motion that the sum of £15,000 should not be spent; but that Motion was declared to be not in order. On that occasion he said, what he now repeated, that there could be no charge of had faith on his part; his undertaking being, that if opposition were withdrawn, no expendi-
 1259
 MR. G. W. HOPE  said, he must admit that he had been told on the occasion referred to that it was open to him to take the opinion of the House on the Appropriation Bill; but it would have been a simple absurdity to do anything of that sort when the House consisted probably of thirty-seven immediate supporters of the Government and three or four independent Members.
 SIR. GEORGE LEWIS  said, he proposed on Thursday to move to refer this Resolution to Committee of Supply, and there would then be one opportunity of discussion upon that Motion. If the House agreed to the Motion, there would be a further opportunity of discussion in Committee of Supply. The House would therefore see that there was no danger of its being taken by surprise. Perhaps it would be convenient now to give notice, that on going into Committee of Supply it was not his intention to propose Vote 15 that evening, inasmuch as it was more or less connected with the postponed Vote.
 ADMIRAL DUNCOMBE  said, the hon. and gallant Member seemed to take it for granted that he (Admiral Duncombe) intended to move for the re-appointment of the Committee, as his question merely asked "when" the Motion was to be made? He believed that, according to the usages of the House, the Motion for re-appointing a Committee was made by the Chairman of the Committee, or at his request. But however that might be, as an individual Member of the Committee, it was not his intention to make the Motion. It would possibly be in the recollection of the House that when the Committee was appointed he had objected to several of its Members being placed upon it. He had done so because he had thought it contrary to common usage, and to common sense indeed, that certain leading Members of the House, whose evidence would be essential before the Committee, should, after having given that evidence, return to the judgment-seat and pass judgment on the evidence they themselves had given. When the Committee was appointed and had commenced its labours, he had experienced great difficulty, not having the weight and authority of the chair, in conducting the business he desired to bring before it. Unfortunately Sir R. Dundas, whose loss was justly deplored, both by the service and the country, died shortly before he was about to be called as a witness, in which capacity he would have given evidence contrary to evidence previously given. Other members of the profession, upon whose evidence he (Admiral Duncombe) had relied, were appointed to offices which made their appearance as witnesses incompatible with the retention of office. Others were appointed to commands which rendered it impossible for him to summon them. He had no hesitation, too, in saying that several
 1264
 MR. HENLEY  said, his hon. and gallant Friend (Admiral Duncombe) had stated that it was usual for the Chairman of a Committee to move for its re-appointment. As Chairman of the Committee, therefore, he begged leave to say that he took no part originally in moving for its appointment; and as no instruction, nor anything like instruction, had been given by the Committee to him to ask for its continuance, be considered that he stood perfectly free from any responsibility in the matter. If the Committee had given him the slightest hint, or the least kind of instruction, that they wished it to be continued, he should have obeyed that instruction. He, however, did not consider it to be his duty, under the special circumstances under which he took the chair of the Committee, to call for a continuance of the inquiry.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that seeing the disposition of the House to proceed with the transaction of business, it was with great reluctance that he had found it necessary to ask hon. Members to reconsider one of the Votes on Thursday next. That Vote would probably give rise to some discussion; and another Vote, No 15, had been postponed, and would still require the attention of the House. However, he hoped that to-morrow the Estimates for the Revenue Departments, and also for the Post Office, would be in the hands of hon. Members, and it was the intention of
 1280
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the hon. Member for the King's County had given notice of an Amendment, with a view of showing that it was competent to Her Majesty's Government in Council to make the alteration which this Bill proposed to accomplish. He held in his hand a very long list of Acts of Parliament—with Which, in the absence of the hon. Gentleman, it would not be necessary for him to trouble the House—and they would have shown him that his view was not founded on law; and that in the case of any alteration similar to that proposed by the Bill—of which there had been many examples in former times—it had always been made by order of Parliament.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he objected to the number of the Committee being increased, and he should therefore oppose the Motion. It would have been churlish on his part to refuse compliance with the request of the President of the Board of Trade, who had shown a most temperate
 1281
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he had originally put the name of Mr. Moffatt down as a Member of the Committee, because he represented the interests of the vendors, who had made him their mouthpiece; and vendors were much interested in the question of trade marks, because they might innocently sell goods which had fraudulent trade marks upon them He had afterwards taken off the name of Mr. Moffatt, because an hon. Gentleman behind him, who made a speech against the Bill, wished to be upon the Committee. As a general rule, he concurred with the hon. Member for Sheffield that it was un-desirable to enlarge Committees, but he thought Mr. Moffatt might fairly be regarded as representing the interests of vendors.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he thought that the proposed was not a convenient mode of forming a Committee. If the hon. and learned Gentleman objected to the name, he should support him.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, it was true that, as a general principle, it was not advisable to add to the original number of a Committee, but it must be admitted that Mr. Moffatt would be a valuable addition. He hoped that the hon. and learned Gentleman would not divide the House.
 MR. ROEBUCK : Why break the agreement?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he thought that he had suggested to his hon. and learned Friend that it might be desirable to add other Members to the Committee.
 MR. FRANK CROSSLEY  said, he should support the addition of the hon. Member for Honiton to the Committee.
 MR. KINNAIRD  recommended the adjournment of the debate.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that as there was not a sufficient number of Members present to make a House, he would move that the debate should be adjourned.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that when his right hon. Friend wished Mr. Potter's name to be put on the Committee, he said to him (Mr. Roebuck) that he had better put another name on, in order to balance that of Mr. Potter. He (Mr. Roebuck) replied
 1282
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he left the hon. Member under the impression that there would be no obstacle, if desirable, to add another Member or two to the Committee.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT : I am desirous to call the attention of the Secretary of the Admiralty to a subject before which all others in my opinion sink into comparative insignificance. I mean the instruction of our officers in command of fleets or squadrons when engaging under steam. It occurs to me that a code of instructions and signals are absolutely necessary to secure that due preparation and uniformity of system so indispensably requisite in Her Majesty's fleets under the total change of circumstances in which we are now placed. The noble Lord is doubtless aware that a manual of this description has long since been drawn up by the French Minister of Marine, and that every officer is required to make himself conversant with it. What can we look forward to but disaster if we send fleets and squadrons into action without any clear or definite ideas of the duties of either admirals or captains? What should we think of an army in which the regiments were merely taught battalion exercise, but never brigaded or instructed in any manœuvres with large bodies of troops? And yet is not this exactly our own case at present? In my opinion we have everything to fear from the crude and discordant ideas of the generality of our own officers on this vital question, and the confusion which must inevitably prevail if some uniform system is not laid down for their guidance, Let me, therefore, most urgently entreat that the Admiralty will consider this as the point which most presses for immediate attention, and without which all our present efforts may become worse than useless. The Coast Guard now numbers from 4,000 to 6,000 men; and yet for some years past the ships on the books of which those men are serving or borne have not been at sea, and are consequently unaccustomed to the use of their "sea legs" aloft. All these Coast Guard ships might he sent to sea joined with the Channel fleet, and the service admitting of it, with a portion of the Mediterranean fleet, and go through the
 1263
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that in answer to his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Christchurch (Admiral Walcott), he had to state that the Admiralty were fully alive to the importance of instructing the officers of the Royal Navy in steam tactics, and they had of late years desired the admirals in command of squadrons to carry out as far as possible the systems devised for that purpose. The plan proposed by Admiral Elliot had, doubtless, considerable merits, but the gallant Admiral (Admiral Walcott) had omitted to mention that there exists already a system of steam tactics contained in the signal book of the navy. It was the opinion of many eminent authorities, that if that system were still further complicated, they would rather damage than otherwise the efficiency of working squadrons under steam. He would give no opinion on this point, but he would assure the gallant Admiral that the subject would not be lost sight of by the Admiralty, and the admiral commanding in the Mediterranean had been desired to make a report, not only with regard to Admiral Elliot's system, but that of other officers. He might also state, that soon after the equinoctial gales it was intended that there should be a steam squadron in the Channel, and that the very important subject of steam tactics would not be neglected. With regard to the junction between the Mediterranean and the Channel squadrons, he was not prepared to answer the question. If such a junction could be made without interfering with the other important services that were always required in the Mediterranean, no doubt it would be very desirable. In answer to the hon. Gentleman (Sir John Hay), he might state that the only vessels
 1267 Icarus 1268
 LORD HOTHAM  said, he would take that opportunity of asking when the Miscellaneous Estimates would come on. The Navy Estimates had been passed in two evenings, and now the army in; Very little more. That was expedition quite unexampled in the history of Parliament. The noble Viscount at the head of the Government would remember when he was Secretary for War that the Army Estimates Occupied twenty one nights. He (Lord Hotham) would suggest; looking at what was nightly the state of the House, that the Miscellaneous Estimates might also be brought on and be disposed of with as little delay as the other two. There was a very general disposition on the part of all Members, for reasons which were very well understood, not to engage in any controversial debate during that Session, and therefore there was no; reason why all the practical business, might not be finished before Easter. The only heavy Bill was in the Lords, and would not take long in that House. There was no use their coming there night after night with nothing to do, and therefore if the Government would be so good as to let them have the Miscellaneous Estimates without delay they might soon be disposed of, as nobody was inclined to obstruct the progress of business. If something of the kind were done, hon. Members might occupy the remainder of the year much more agreeably than coming there night after night to do nothing. From the state of the House every evening, the Government enjoyed facilities for carrying financial measures through which they never had had before.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he thought that his hon. Friend had touched rather lightly upon the real cause of the expedition to Mexico. There were far more grievances to complain of than those mentioned by the hon. Member. Not to go very far back into Mexican history, it would suffice to say that three or four years ago a party known as the Church party possessed the Government, which recognised as their principles the utmost intolerance, and as their cry "Death to foreigners." The papers that had been laid on the table would show in what manner those principles were carried out, and how that cry succeeded. He need scarcely remind the House that an English consul and a French consul had been murdered; that after one victory every officer taken, and they were fifty-three in number, were
 1274 conducta 1275 Laguna Secca, 1276 1277 1278
 MR. DISRAELI : I wish, Sir, to put a question to Her Majesty's Government respecting certain proclamations which have been issued by the officers of the King of Italy in the southern parts of that country. Very recently public feeling was much excited in this country by a proclamation signed by Colonel Fantoni, which commanded the shooting of women and other enormities so incredible that I believe a Minister of authority and one of the advisers of the Crown felt him self justified in his place in denying the authenticity of the document. Unfortunately it proved to be authentic, but public feeling was relieved by the highest authority in another place in forming the country that he had received a communication from the Prime Minister of the King of Italy, declaring that the moment the proclamation of Colonel Fantoni was issued it was by a superior order recalled. But, Sir, I have in my hand another proclamation, which appears to have been issued several days after the proclamation of Colonel Fantoni that we were assured was immediately recalled. I can have no doubt of its authenticity, for I find it in a Neapolitan journal of highly Liberal opinions. The House will, perhaps, allow me to state the principal features of that proclamation that they may comprehend the object of my question; and, also that Her Majesty's Government may recognise, if they have it in their power, whether that document or an official copy of that document is in their
 1246 "The undersigned, charged with the destruction of brigandage, declares that whoever gives shelter, or any kind of sustenance or aid, to brigands, or seeing them and knowing their place of refuge, does not immediately give information to the armed force, or the civil and military authorities, shall be immediately shot. "All cabins must be burnt, towers and farmhouses which are not inhabited, or defended by armed force, must be dismantled within three days, or the doors and windows built up. After that time they will be burnt, and likewise all cattle found without the necessary protecting force will be killed. "It is also prohibited to carry bread or food of any kind out of the inhabited parts of the commune; and whoever acts in contravention of this order will be considered as an accomplice of the brigands, and shot."
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he was not about to follow his hon. and gallant Friend into the general question of guarantees. He quite admitted that, in the abstract, they were not in accordance with Free Trade principles; but there were peculiar circumstances connected with railway companies in India. The object in giving a guarantee in the case of the Steam Flotilla Company was really to complete a great line of railway, of which the navigation of that portion of the Indus formed a connecting link. Besides that, he found the guarantees referred to by his hon. and gallant Friend in existence at the time he had the honour of entering on the duties of the office which he now filled, and he had had no option in the matter. Coming to his hon. and gallant Friend's questions, and taking the last first, he had to reply, that the Government had not guaranteed 5 per cent upon £167,000 to be raised as additional capital for the purposes stated. No such proposition had been made to the India Office. With regard to the first question, the Government were bound to see those companies through some way or other; because as they had guaranteed 5 per cent to the shareholders, it was their interest to forward the undertaking, as the only mode of saving themselves from the payment of interest. If the companies could not pay interest out of revenue, the Government would be called on to pay it. In the particular case, the Government of Bombay arranged to sell certain vessels to the company, not having any further occasion for them themselves. Before he had sanctioned the agreement for the sale, another company had been communicated with, but they declined to say whether they would purchase the boats unless they had a previous loan of them for six months. Under those circumstances the sale to the Steam Flotilla and Punjab Railway Company took place. In this, as in the case of another railway company to whom ad-
 1262
 MR. HALIBURTON  said, he rose to call the attention of the Government to our relations with Mexico; and to inquire of the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether information has reached the Government that Mexican agents have been commissioned to fit out in America privateers, to operate against the commerce of this country; and whether measures have been taken either in anticipation or in consequence thereof? It was well known to every hon. Member of the House that for the last quarter of a century Mexico had been in a continual state of civil war. The peace of that country was constantly broken by armed partisans or ambitious aspirants for supreme power. War, almost to extermination, was waged, prisoners were put to death, property was confiscated by the successful party, whichever it might be. But, however deplorable might have been the condition of the natives, the position of foreign residents in the country was still worse. They were the objects of plunder to each party in succession, as it became predominant. What they were pleased to call forced loans were extorted from them, or, if they refused to contribute to them, they were cast into prison, and were denied all the protection which the administration of the laws in civilized countries provided for foreign residents. But of all the foreigners in Mexico, those who suffered most were the English, for two reasons—because they were better worth robbing as being richer than others, and also because it was known that their own Government would not interfere to procure redress for them. For years the British residents had called for redress, but had received none. When they appealed to the navy on the station, they were told that the commanders had no orders; and when the consuls reported to the Home Government, the only replies were threats that were never carried out and promises that were never fulfilled.
 1269 1270 1271 1272 1273
 MR. GREGORY  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether any Report has been furnished to him by the Poor Law Inspector accompanying the steamer that has been sent to the west coast of Ireland to relieve distress in that district; if so, whether he will lay the Report before the House; and whether relief has been afforded, of what character, and to what extent?
 Mr. MASSEY  in the Chair.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether he has taken Shares in the Steam Flotilla on the Indus, connected with the Scinde and Punjab Railway Companies on account of the Indian Government, in part payment of the price of Vessels proposed to be sold to the Steam Company by the Government, and whether he has guaranteed 5 per cent upon £167,000 to be raised as additional capital to complete the payments to the Government, and for other purposes? He had put his question on
 1260 1261
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he wished to ask Admiral Duncombe, When he intends to move for the re-appointment of the Admiralty Committee?
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, If it is the intention of the Board of Admiralty to reduce the number of warrant officers in Her Majesty's navy by taking away boatswains and carpenters from vessels with complements of 125 men and under; and if it is the intention of the Admiralty to make a considerable reduction in the complements of sea-going ships, and to ask him to state upon what principle that reduction will be regulated? It would be satisfactory to the navy to hear that there was no truth in the rumour to which the first part of his question referred. He feared that the duty would be inefficiently performed in the absence of the warrant officers, who were a most trustworthy and
 1265 Revenge, 1266
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  in reply said, the Report in question had been received from the Poor Law Inspector, Dr. Brodie, who went in the steam-vessel  Geyser, 1245
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, the right hon. Gentleman had the goodness this morning to give me notice of the question that he meant to ask, and I have therefore made inquiry at the Foreign Office, to ascertain whether any communication has been received there with regard to this proclamation of Major Fumel's. The answer which I got was, that no information on this point had been received either from Her Majesty's Minister at Turin or from Her Majesty's Consul at Naples, but that a telegraphic inquiry would immediately be made for the purpose of ascertaining how the fact stands. I am sure it is needless to say with regard to the proclamation in question that Her Majesty's Government must partake of the disgust that everybody will feel at proceedings of this kind. It is true that the brigands who have infested this part of the Neapolitan territory have committed outrages of the most revolting character, but that is no justification for
 1247
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that the port of Great Yarmouth was not included among the places enumerated in the Schedule of the Fortifications Loan Bill, nor was it thought advisable to include Great Yarmouth in the Vote for fortifying commercial harbours in the Estimates of the present year.
 MR. PEEL  said, that the House would be led into error if it attached implicit, credence to what had been stated by the noble Lord as to the authority attaching to the Resolution he had moved. The noble Lord had told the House that the Resolution was word for word copied from the recommendations of the Public Monies Committee. He could not have claimed higher authority for his Resolution, for, comparatively short as was the time that had elapsed since that Committee made its Report, most of its recommendations had been carried into effect either by the Government or by Act of Parliament. The recent changes made in the constitution of the Pay Office, in regard to Exchequer Bills, the extension of the appropriation audit to the Revenue Accounts, and the appointment of a Committee of that House last year for the purpose of examining and revising the Audited Accounts—all these innovations had been adopted in pursuance of the recommendations of that Committee, and showed the just authority that belonged to their Report. He thought, however, that Committee would find it difficult to recognise in the Resolution of the noble Lord any recommendations of their own; for although the words were the same, the sense thereof was totally different. The noble Lord's Resolution consisted of fragments of sentences which had been extracted from the Report of the Committee, and blended together with a total disregard of the sense and the context of the passages from which they had been taken. The noble Lord read two passages from the
 1334 1335 1336 1337 1338
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the hon. Member had supported his Resolution in an able and temperate speech, though he had expected that he would have raised a more general discussion on the existing state of international law as affecting the rights of neutrals. The hon. Member in his Resolution had described the existing state of the law to be both ill-defined and unsatisfactory His arguments, however, had been mainly addressed to the policy of the law, and there could be no doubt that the question of policy was one of great importance; but the hon. Gentleman appeared to overlook the fact, that whatever might be the opinions of Members of that House, or even of the Government, on the policy of the law, it was impossible for any one State effectually to interpose for an alteration of the law without the concurrence of other States. It would be obviously
 1370 "First, the goods of an enemy on board the ship of a friend may be taken. Secondly, the lawful goods of a friend on board the ship of an enemy ought to be restored. Thirdly, contraband goods going to the enemy, though the property of a friend, may be taken as prize, because the sup-
 1371 1372 1373
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : Sir, the question which has been raised to-night is of first-rate importance. It would be of great importance to a country which has not a powerful national navy and a vast mercantile marine, but to England, situated as she is, it is of paramount importance that this question should receive a right decision when discussed in Parliament. I trust that, whatever may be the result of this debate—whatever may be the fate of the Motion submitted by the hon. Member for Liverpool—we shall not come to any precipitate conclusion, or one of which we may hereafter have occasion to repent. The hon. Gentleman has proposed, "That the present state of International Maritime Law, as affecting the rights of belligerents and neutrals, is ill-defined and unsatisfactory, and calls for the early attention of Her Majesty's Government." The terms of his Motion are as general as it is possible to frame them. They bring under review the whole state of international maritime law, as affecting the rights of belligerents and neutrals. Hence they involve the question of privateering; they involve the question of the neutral flag covering the enemy's goods. [An hon. MEMBER: That was settled by the Declaration of Paris.] I am aware that the question was settled as far as this country is concerned, but it has been argued in the course of the debate that it ought to be unsettled. I am merely speaking of the general terms of the hon. Member's Motion. But the hon. Member, instead of making his speech co-extensive with
 1381
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : Precisely—that the private property of the enemy should not be taken out of the enemy's ships. By the Declaration of Paris neutral goods are sacred under the enemy's flag. [Mr. BRIGHT: And the ship also.] Very good; the argument is that the ship should be sacred as well as the goods under the enemy's flag. Such is the proposition of the hon. Member for Liverpool, and, that being so, it seems to me that the more correct course, as far as this House is concerned, would have been for the hon. Gentleman to move an Address to the Crown, requesting Her Majesty to use her influence with foreign Powers for the purpose of making the principle that the enemy's flag should cover the enemy's ship and goods a maxim of international maritime law. That would have brought the question which the hon. Member has argued fairly under the consideration of the House; but at present any hon. Gentleman who thinks, for instance, that privateering ought to be continued, or that the clauses of the Declaration of Paris ought to be repealed—who, in short, entertains views entirely opposed to those which have been advanced to night—might with perfect propriety say to the hon. Member for Liverpool, "I do not agree with your speech, but I approve your Resolution, and therefore shall vote for it." It seems, therefore, to me, that if the hon. Gentleman succeeded in carrying his Resolution, he would not necessarily give effect to his opinions. The Government would say, "We are not bound by the speeches of individual Members; we must look to the general terms of a Resolution, and act accordingly." Therefore, I say, if he wished to establish this principle, that the ship and goods of an enemy are to be respected in war by the belligerent, he ought to have embodied that proposition in a distinct Resolution and submitted it to the House; he would then have raised a distinct issue on which we might have acted. But I must say that the proposition which he has submitted to us
 1382 1383 1384 modus operandi 1385 1386 1387 1388
 MR. T. BARING : Sir, I have listened with some surprise to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for War. The right hon. Gentleman, speaking of the Convention of Paris, not only referred to the possibility of that Convention being broken through in time of war and necessity, but went further, and said that no compact and no treaty made in peace is binding in war. Now, as I understand it, the Paris Convention was made in time of peace in order to provide against some of the worst evils and horrors of war.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : —This is so important a point that I should be sorry if any misunderstanding arose. What I meant to say, and what I believe I did Bay, was this—that I conceived the Declaration of Paris to be binding as between this country and neutrals during the existence of war, and to be equally binding with a treaty, though it was only a declaration; but that if we were at war with any of the parties to that Declaration, then, like other treaties, it would cease to have a binding effect as regards that belligerent.
 MR. T. BARING : —That Convention was made between six or seven States, including the great maritime Powers of Europe. I believe the only great maritime Power of the world not included is the. United States. Therefore it would operate in time of war as binding with respect to all except the two belligerents But does the right hon. Gentleman mean to say that we are now to discuss whether that was a wise provision or not? The hon. and learned Attorney General would not enter into the discussion of the merits of the Paris Convention; he treated it as an accomplished fact, which must be adhered to. Neither do I intend to discuss its merits. For the progress of commercial prosperity, I believe some treaty was necessary at that time. Whether it ought to have been carried to the extent it was. was a matter for reflection at the time; but it being now the law as far as regards the Governments that were parties to it, the question for us is, how will it act upon our mercantile navy and our commerce? As I understand the matter, by that Convention you hold neutrals' goods harmless wherever they may be found, and you also make the neutral flag cover enemy's goods. What, then, would happen in
 1390 1391 1392
 MR. COWPER , in asking for leave to introduce a Bill to enable the Commissioners of Her Majesty's Works to acquire a site for the erection and concentration of courts of justice and of offices belonging to the same, said, at that hour (quarter to one) he should confine himself to stating that substantially the Bill was the same as that which had passed through the House last Session, and was stopped in the House of Lords for want of time.
 MR. LYGON  said, he hoped better opportunities would be afforded for discussing the Bill than; had been given last year, when the subject never came before the House until after twelve o'clock.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he wished to correct a verbal error in the Vote. Colonel Edward Wetherall was there described as having been appointed "Director General of the Land Transport in the Crimea, which he re-organized," whereas it should be that he "officiated as Direct tor General of the Land Transport Corps in the Crimea for four months, and assisted in its re-organization."
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, that although the hon. Member might be satisfied with the working of the Commission, a large body of hon. Members of that House held a contrary opinion. He therefore thought the Committee a most expedient measure.
 MR. KINNAIRD  seconded the Motion.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, he doubted that any good would result from the Committee, which, he thought, would be premature. They had not as yet had time to test the results of the previous inquiry. He believed that the only use of the Committee would be to dispel the delusions that existed respecting the Commission.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, that in rising to make a few observations, he hoped that he should not be accused of the presumption of attempting to follow the legal argument of the hon. and learned Member who had just sat down. Of course he could not pretend to cross swords with him upon legal subleties, or in reference to what was the law, but he might be permitted to notice that he said that he had been culled on not to defend the expression but the policy of the law. He apprehended that it would have been more to the taste of the hon. and learned Gentleman to have dealt with the letter of the law, than to find himself called upon to defend a policy which, as it bore at present upon certain national interests, was indefensible. The hon. and learned Member, however, went further, and complained that his hon. Friend (Mr. Horsfall) had limited his argument to that portion of this great question which had more immediate bearing on the shipping interest. He (Mr. Liddell) agreed with him in that regret; but when the hon. and learned Gentleman went on to state that the maritime law was not involved in any doubt or obscurity, he would ask him whether he thought that the law of contraband was settled at the present moment? Was it not rather involved in doubt and obscurity? And so of the law of blockade, was not that obscure and doubtful? He would probably be called to order if he alluded to recent debates in that House, but there were rumours out of doors that there were, at that moment, blockades with respect to the legality of which doubts existed. Was not also the question of what was and what was not a privateer a matter of discussion among the learned? Well, all these questions would most properly form topics of discussion in a congress, should one be called for the purpose. Doubtless there were conflicting feelings on the subject of international law. The
 1374 "I am afraid that we must be bound by the declaration. I am afraid that the consequences are so serious as to show that such a declaration was very imprudent, and I cannot but agree with the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Lindsay), that England ought to preserve her maritime superiority * * * * The whole matter is most unsatisfactory and most grave in its bearing upon our maritime supremacy The state of this question is to me very alarming; but I do not see that a breach of faith would at all mend our position. [3  Hansard 1375 1376 1377
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council, If it is intended, under the revised edition of the Revised Code to abolish any of the Lectureships in the Training Colleges, and, if so, when that abolition is to take effect?
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  rose, pursuant to notice to move the following Resolution:—
 "That, in order to strengthen the check upon the Government in regard to issues of money for any public service whatever in excess of the sums voted by Parliament, as well as to secure the just appropriation of every payment voted by Parliament to its proper account, a Committee be appointed, to be annually nominated by Mr. Speaker, for the purpose of revising all Estimates or accounts laid before Parliament; and that it be an instruction to the Committee to report in what way the present duties and powers of the Board of
 1307 "The proper mode of proceeding is to determine the matter early next Session," "Move for a Committee for the purpose of arranging the business of supply, he would be conferring an important service and deserve the thanks of the House." 1308 1309 "I deny that such confidence in the Executive is, has, or ought to be recognised in any free state. I deny that it has ever been, from the earliest times a principle adopted under the British Constitution. On the contrary, it is constitutional jealousy, and not confidence, upon which our institutions are founded, and on which the safety of the liberties of England depend," in esse in posse; 1310 1311 "Is it apparent in any account which is laid before Parliament? No, it is not; unless in the Vote submitted to Parliament it may be mentioned, as it sometimes is, in a note. "Is it the fact that, from the manner in which the accounts are published, Parliament is ignorant of the fact that part of the apparent balance is already bespoken?.… Undoubtedly, the fact is not brought under the cognizance of Parliament." 1312 "Sir HENRY WILLOUGHBY: Are you aware that a balance had been left in various ways unknown to Parliament until the Committee on public monies made its investigation and reported? … and was it not in consequence of that being found out that the sum, of money of £ 66,000 was surrendered? Mr. LAING. NO doubt." 1313 "How soon is any application of one sum to another purpose brought under the notice of Parliament?—If it were within the same Vote, I do not see that it would be brought under the notice of Parliament. "Sir STAFFORD NORTHCOTE: If therefore the Ministers of the day wished to expend a certain sum upon an object for which they were not likely to get the consent of Parliament, they might, by taking a very small sum for that object, and by taking unnecessarily large sums for other objects, accomplish the object without the knowledge of Parliament?—… Mr. LAING: I do not know whether what is suggested could be done to any large extent. If it were done to a large extent, it would be almost certain to excite attention, especially if it were done for some unpopular object … at the same time, theoretically speaking, it is no doubt possible to a certain extent." 1314 "The accounts are laid before Parliament when the expenditure had been incurred, and there is no possibility of altering it. No previous sanction of Parliament is given to the items of expenditure. It is an account of money expended over which the House of Commons has no control." "There has been a tendency of late years, to put into Class 7 certain matters which might properly belong to other classes." 1315 "Are not all sums expended on Civil Contingencies, expended without the control of Parliament at all?—Yes, no doubt; Civil Contingencies is a fund which the Treasury has a discretion to draw upon," &c. "Sir STAFFORD NORTHOOTE: And therefore the effect of voting upon Civil Contingencies charges for services which might regularly be estimated, is this—that the control of Parliament over those services is practically destroyed?—No doubt; the Civil Contingencies should be confined as strictly as possible to matters which cannot be foreseen." "Of late years the fact has been that the Treasury has spent more upon Civil Contingencies than the amount proposed?—Yes; I apprehend it will become necessary to transfer some large Votes to the Estimates, and yet take nearly the same sum for Civil Contingencies." "Sir STAFFORD NORTHCOTE: Is it not the case that the number of objects included in Class 7 has grown from eight objects in 1848, to fifty-three objects in 1859?—Yes, that is so." 1316 1317 "Because it is inconsistent with that part of the Bill which forbids the supplies to be issued to any other purposes than those specified; and renders ineffectual that appropriation of the public money which the wisdom of many Parliaments has thought, and we are convinced ought to be thought, a necessary security against the misapplication of it." "Because it puts it in the power of a Minister to divert any of the Supplies to whatever purposes poses he shall see fit … whereas Appropriating Clauses were introduced to prevent the secret ill use of public money; and every ten dency of breaking through them is a just foundation for Parliamentary jealousy and inquiry; and therefore we apprehend that we cannot answer it to the nation if we should acquiesce when such innovations are attempted … Monies are granted always in consequence of Estimates laid before the House of Commons, and for services specified … But this clause gives ministers such a latitude to misapply the public money, that we apprehend it to be of the most dangerous consequence." 1318 Grey's Debates, 1319 Will. & Mary, e. g. Will. "And to the end the sums by this Act appropriated may not be diverted or applied to any other purposes than are hereby declared and intended: Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the rules and directions appointed and enacted in one Act (1  Will. & Mary, "The said aids and supplies provided as aforesaid shall not be issued or applied to any use, intent, or purpose whatsoever other than the uses, intents, and purposes before mentioned or for the other payments, appropriation, or application directed to be made or satisfied thereout by any Act or Acts or any particular clause or clauses for that purpose contained in any other Act or Acts of this Session of Parliament." 1320 Practice of Parliament, "If any clause in particular was to be called 'the Appropriation Clause,' it was plain that it was not the clause which the noble Lord (Lord Robert Montagu) mentioned, but the 10th Clause," "The strict appropriation of supplies was, at the Revolution, … made part of that system of Government which was then established, for the better securing the rights, liberties, and privileges of the country." Constitutional History, "From the Revolution the appropriation of the supplies has been the invariable usage." "By a clause annually repeated in the Appropriation Act of each Session, the Lords of the Treasury are forbidden, under severe penalties, from issuing money by any warrant, except for that to which it has been appropriated." "A House of Commons would be deeply responsible to the country if, through supine confidence, it should abandon that high privilege which has made it the regulator of foreign connections." 1321 vice versâ, "When a certain amount of expenditure for a particular service has been determined upon by Parliament, it is the bounden duty of the department which has that service under its charge to take care that the expenditure does not exceed the amount placed at its disposal for that purpose." "That a sum not exceeding £ 550,000 be applied to miscellaneous charges." 1322 "And practically the Audit Office has no check pon the expenditure of the Secretary of State at War; … or is there practically any detailed check upon the expenditure which the Secretary at War makes?—Mr. Romilly: There is not in our office; … there is virtually no check, except in the department itself." "I think you stated that the Chancellor of the Exchequer signed the account which the Board puts before him, as a matter of course?—Yes. And he makes no examination of it at all?—No, certainly not." 1323 "You do not get all the accounts from the Commissioners, do you?—No, we do not get the accounts from the Civil Service Commissioners. How are the receipts for Civil Contingencies presented to you?—We do not examine the accounts of the Civil Contingencies. Do you see an account of the expenditure incurred on account of special missions, such as … Lord John Russell's mission to Vienna, or Mr. Cobden's mission to Paris?—No." "So that if the House of Commons or the public imagine that the whole public expenditure goes through the Audit Office, they are greatly mistaken?—Greatly mistaken." Vict. "Do not the Treasury send all accounts to you?—Certainly not; a very large part of the public accounts of the kingdom do not come before us. The accounts of the several Secretaries of State and a great many others we never see; … the circumstances which may induce the Treasury to decide in favour of sending some accounts to the Audit Office and of withholding others are of a kind that can only be known to the officers of the Treasury … I am really unable to state what the circumstances are which induce the Treasury to send some accounts to us and withhold others. It rests altogether with the Treasury; they have an absolute discretion in the matter.—Then, in
 1324 1325 sine cerâ, 1326 "I think the recommendation contained in the Report of the Public Monies Committee is the best and the most practical, and I think it is the only working arrangement that we can really carry out. 1327 "For my part I attach the greatest importance to the system of transfers. 1 see in it the only practicable and effectual means of securing the public service in the absence of the Legislative Body." "Vacillation, uncertainty, costliness, extravagance, meanness, and all the conflicting vices that could be enumerated, were united in our present system. … The money of the country was wasted. He believed such were the evils of the system that nothing short of a revolutionary reform would ever be sufficient to rectify it." "We submit to boundless taxes, which the idea of liberty alone renders supportable." 1328
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he had had no opportunity of consulting the Committee of Selection, because the Speaker had informed him of the necessity of altering the words of his Resolution only ten minutes before he rose to move it.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  in reply said, it was not his intention, in replying, to detain the House many minutes, for there were but few points on which it was needful for him to touch. He must, however, protest against the speech of the hon. Gentleman the Secretary of the Treasury. He had stated that the Motion which he (Lord Robert Montagu) had asserted to have been entirely taken from the Report of the Committee of Public Monies, had not been honestly taken from that Report—that he had taken a word from this paragraph and a clause from that; disconnecting expressions from arguments which supported and qualified them; and had thus constructed a Resolution entirely at variance with the sense of that Report. This charge was most unfair and most unjust. He appealed to the House. Had he asked them to accept a single statement of his upon his own authority? Had he not supported every assertion by argument and evidence? Had he not read out three paragraphs in connection from the Public Monies Report, asking hon. Members to follow him by reading his Resolution? Could any course be more fair or more candid than that? But what has the hon. Gentleman done, Has he appealed to your reason? Has he addressed your judgments? No. He has made assertions without proof; he has drawn conclusions without syllogisms; he has put a Q. E. D. to statements without any argument to support them. He (Lord Robert Montagu) never had rested on any influence he might have with the House. But the hon. Gentleman, on the other hand, considered his authority to be such that the House must receive whatever he chose to assert. He must have a bad case or he would not have resorted to such miserable and unworthy subterfuges. A cause may he assumed to be weak when fallacies are resorted to. For what are fallacies? They are the signals of distress of a shipwrecked cause. He has said that the Audit Board has full powers by Act of Parliament. Of course! His
 1358 1359
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he gathered from the discussion that there was a general opinion that the Declaration of Paris in 1856 was a great blunder. ["No," and "Hear, hear!"] That was certainly the impression conveyed by the speeches of his hon. Friend and of the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite. But it was a singular argument that because we committed a mistake in 1856 we were bound to go on in the same course of error, and to take another step towards abandoning the supremacy of England upon the seas. His principal object in rising, however, was to remove an erroneous impression from the mind of his hon. Friend who had just sat down with regard to the opinion of the noble Earl the Secretary for Foreign Affairs upon the subject. Now, he (Mr. B. Cochrane) wished to refer to a speech of the noble Earl's which bore exactly on the point under discussion. It was delivered on March 9, 1857. In that speech he said—
 "Since that time the Secretary of State of the United States has proposed to go a step further
 1378 Hansard, Warriors Black Princes, 1379 "Whereas I judge it proper under the present uncertain state of affairs between Great Britain and the Court of Spain, that all Spanish ships and vessels of war, as well as the trade of. His Catholic Majesty shall be detained until further orders; you are hereby required and directed to detain all Spanish ships and vessels of war, or merchantmen (vessels laden with corn excepted), belonging to the subjects of His Catholic Majesty, which you may fall in with, and send them either to Gibraltar or Malta, as circumstances shall render necessary."
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, that in his opinion the most important and valuable part of the Motion was that which declared that the Committee should have power to examine and report upon the Estimates. If the Estimates were referred to a small Select Committee, to be nominated by the Speaker, the Report of such a Committee would be of inestimable value for the guidance of the House in their discussions. By the existing system the expenditure was rather increased than diminished. He therefore hoped the noble Lord would not withdraw that part of his Resolution. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Treasury appeared to think that the Board of Audit had sufficient powers, but the whole evidence relative to the public expenditure showed that the Board had not those powers; and for this reason, that under 9 & 10  Vict. Geo.
 MR. LAYARD : Sir, in answer to the question of the hon. and gallant Member, I have to state, that considering the great value of British property in Shanghai, amounting to many millions sterling; considering the policy of the Taepings, which is a policy of destruction and extermination; considering that hitherto no system of Government has been established by the Taepings; and considering the vast amount of British property that would be destroyed if Shanghai fell into their hands, Her Majesty's Government have deemed it their imperative duty to give orders that Shanghai shall be protected by naval means from the attack of the Taepings. I am not aware that there is any foundation for the statement in the Paris paper alluded to by my hon. and galland Friend. No such information has reached the Foreign Office.
 MR. NEWDEGATE : Sir, the hon. Member for Brighton has just repeated that which I hold to be a calumny upon this House. He has stated that the unrepresented classes, as he is pleased to call those who have no votes, and who are not therefore directly represented in this House—
 MR. NEWDEGATE : Well, as the Bill
 1343 1344 1345 1346 1347
 MR. NEWDEGATE : Then I will deal
 1341 bonâ fide
 MR. NEWDEGATE : Then the hon. Gentleman seems to have changed; for I certainly understood him to say that he thought the proposal was futile, and that he did not agree in the noble Lord's suggestion. I am delighted to hear, however, that in the body the hon. Member will vote with us, although his speech has been against us. I allude to this fact, because I hold that the noble Lord has rendered a very great service both to this House and to all classes in the country; for if I may judge by the laboured exposition of the hon. Under Secretary of the Treasury, by the laborious effort which he has made to explain to the House that which it is our duty to understand—namely, the course of the public expenditure—it is perfectly clear that, unless some means are adopted to simplify the consideration of voluminous Estimates as they are presented to Parliament, not before, but as they are laid upon the table of the House by the Government, whose function it is to present them, so as subsequently to simplify the consideration of them, we shall see Session after Session empty benches just in proportion to the increased volume of the details with which we are encumbered. Now that is a practical evil which was considered in some degree by the Committee on public business, upon which I had the honour to serve. And, Sir, it is a matter which I know has engaged your own attention;
 1342
 MR. NEWDEGATE : I beg the right hon. Gentleman's pardon. He did say the Clause; but the Appropriation Clause gives the character to the Bill.
 MR. H. SEYMOUR  said, he rose to move for a Committee to inquire into the present state of the Ecclesiastical Commission, and to report to the House whether the Ecclesiastical Revenues could not be more advantageously administered for the interests of the Church than they were at present. As he understood that the Motion was not to be opposed, he should not feel it necessary to detain the House at
 1393
 MR. WHITE : I do not oppose him. I mean to vote with him.
 MR. WHITE : I beg the hon. Gentleman's pardon. I put it hypothetically, not affirmatively.
 MR. WHITE  said, that before he avowed his dissent from some of the opinions expressed by the noble Lord the Member for Huntingdon, he desired to tender to him his warmest thanks for the care and industry which he had displayed in the treatment of this subject, and the zeal which characterized his efforts to enable that House to have some practical control over the expenditure of the country. But he (Mr. White) must confess that the noble Lord had not satisfied him that they had great occasion to fear the aggressions of successive Administrations. He was inclined to think the fault lay with themselves—that the root of the evil was with them. It was to the supineness and the gross neglect of Parliament in regard to its duties that they owed this growing augmentation of the national expenditure. No one could deny but that they had the amplest details of the expenditure given in the annual Estimates that were laid upon the table; but, if such a thing were possible, he should be curious enough to ask for a return of the Members who read the Estimates that were annually issued. He thought their number would be very few. Unless a man bad been trained to business and possessed habits of industry, it would be almost appalling to him to have to read over the amount of information which was now afforded. He had taken the pains to go through the Estimates for this year, and those for last year. They had only had the Army and Navy Estimates this year. He found that the number of folio pages occupied with the Estimates for the Army for 1861–2 were 155, and the number of items 4,728. The number of folio pages occupied with the Navy Estimates was 107, and the number of items 1,403. In the revenue department, 97 folio pages and 2,498 items. Under the Estimates for the Civil Service, No. 1, there were 46 folio pages and 876 items; in No. 2, 54 folio pages and 1,366 items; No. 3, 77 folio
 1339 1340
 MR. BRIGHT : I hope the noble Lord will give us a whole night, for it is a great disadvantage to have an important question like this brought on after some other subject has been discussed. The noble Lord has expressed a very confident opinion on the question, very much at variance with that quoted by the hon. Gentleman opposite. I hope, when he rises to address the House on the main question, that he will revert to his old opinion.
 MR. COBDEN  seconded the Resolution.
 MR. COBDEN  said, he would move the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. LOWE : Sir, the Revised Code, with the intended modifications, does not propose to abolish the Lectureships in the Training Colleges.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he rose to ask for leave to introduce a Bill to amend the laws relating to the security and management of savings banks. He proposed to introduce no new regulations, but simply to enforce upon all local banks regulations which already obtained in almost all well-managed institutions. The Bill would not touch the control of the Government or the disposition of the money, but would first repeal the clause in the Act of 1844 which took away all liability from trustees, and would make them, as before, responsible for the consequences of their own acts. It would also force an auditor upon every bank, and define his duties. And lastly, it would provide for the security of the depositor by enacting that no transactions should take' place except at the office during office hours, and in the presence and with the signature of more than one person. In order that the Bill might receive full consideration throughout the country, he proposed to appoint a distant day, about the middle of May, for the second reading.
 MR. HORSFALL  said, he was not indifferent either to the difficulty or the responsibility of submitting to the House at that moment the Motion which stood in his name, and for many reasons he should have rejoiced if the duty had devolved upon the hon. Member for Rochdale (Mr. Cobden), who early in the Session had given notice of a similar Motion, but who had courteously given way upon hearing that he (Mr. Horsfall) intended to renew the Motion of which he had given notice last Session. It would be in the recollection of those hon. Members who took an interest in the subject of International Maritime Law, that last year, when he brought forward a similar Motion, the present unhappy state of affairs in America did not exist, and he could not contemplate then, any more than he contemplated now, provoking a discussion upon the relative merits of the American Union or of a Southern Independence. On the contrary he was glad of an opportunity of expressing not only his own feelings, but those of a large majority of his constituents, by saying that he cor-
 1360 1361 "To preserve the commerce of Neutrals from all unnecessary obstruction, Her Majesty is willing, (or the present, to waive a part of the belligerent rights appertaining to Her by the law of nations. It is impossible for Her Majesty to forego the exercise of her right of seizing articles contraband of War, and of preventing Neutrals from bearing the enemy's despatches, and She must maintain the right of a belligerent to prevent Neutrals from breaking any effective blockade which may be established with an adequate force against the Enemy's Forts, Harbours, or Coasts. But Her Majesty will waive the right of seizing an Enemy's property taken on board a neutral vessel, unless it be contraband of war. It is not Her Majesty's intention to claim the confiscation of neutral property, not being contraband of war, found on board Enemy's ships. And Her Majesty further declares, that being anxious, as much as possible, to lessen the evils of war, and to restrict its operations to the regularly-organized forces of the country, it is not Her present intention to issue letters of marque for the commissioning of privateers." "1. Privateering is and remains abolished. "2. The Neutral Flag covers Enemy's goods, with the exception of Contraband of War. "3. Neutral goods, with the exception of Contraband of War, are not liable to capture under an Enemy's Flag. "4. Blockades, in order to be binding, must be effective; that is to say, maintained by a force sufficient really to prevent access to the coast of the Enemy. "The present Declaration is not and shall not be binding except between those Powers who have acceded or shall accede to it." 1362 1363 1364 "Being anxious to lessen as much as possible the evils of war, and to restrict its operation to the regularly-organized forces of the country it was hot her intention to issue letters of marque." "Gentlemen, we are not inattentive to other interests besides those connected with the grand transactions of war. It has been a subject of great satisfaction to us to reflect that at the commencement of that conflict (the Russian war) the Government of England, in concert with that of France, made changes and relaxations in the doctrine of war which, without in any degree impairing the power of the belligerents against their opponents, maintained the Course of hostilities, yet tended to mitigate the pressure which hostilities inevitably produce upon the commercial transactions of countries that are at war. I cannot help hoping that these relaxations of former doctrines, which were established in the beginning of the war, practised during its continuance, and which have been since ratified by former engagements, may perhaps be still further extended; and in the course of time the principles of war which are applied to hostilities by land may be extended, without exception, to hostilities by sea, and that private property shall no longer be exposed to aggression on either side. If we look at the example of former periods, we shall not find that any powerful country was ever vanquished by losses sustained by individuals. It is the conflicts of armies by land, or fleets sea, that decide the great contests of nations, and it is perhaps to be desired that these conflicts should be confined to the bodies acting under the orders and directions of the respective States." 1365 "The proposal to surrender the right to employ privateers is professedly founded on the principle that private property of unoffending non-combatants, though enemies, should be exempt from the ravages of war. But the proposed surrender goes little way in carrying out that prin-
 1366 "Mr. Seward called upon me the day before yesterday, and asked me to give him a list of the Powers which have acceded to the Declaration of Paris on maritime law. He said that he had observed a list of those Powers in your Lordship's despatch to me of the 18th of May, which I had left with him for a few days. I readily agreed to send him the list. He went on to tell me that he was endeavouring to disentangle a complication which had been produced by Mr. Dayton at Paris. Mr. Dayton had, he said, been instructed to state to the French Government that the Government of the United States preferred the proposal of Mr. Marcy, by which private property would be altogether exempted from capture, but that, nevertheless, they were willing, if necessary, to accede at once to the Declaration of Paris 'pure and simple,' and to postpone the discussion of Mr. Marcy's proposal to a more propitious moment." "Mr. Dayton informs me that some time since he made a proposal to the French Government to adopt the Declaration of the Congress at Paris in 1856, with an addition to the first clause, in substance the same with that heretofore proposed by his predecessor, Mr. Mason, under instruction given by Mr. Marcy, then the Secretary of State of the United States; to that proposal he received an answer from the French Minister of Foreign Affairs declining to consider the proposition, not for any objection entertained against it, but because it was a variation from the terms of the original agreement, requiring a prior reference of it to the other parties to that convention. This answer does not, in his opinion, make the ultimate acceptance of his addition impossible,
 1367 "As far as I am concerned, this statement is perfectly correct." "Her Majesty's Government does not intend thereby to undertake any engagement which shall have any bearing, direct or indirect, on the internal differences now prevailing in the United States." "Mr. Dayton hardly concealed from M. Thouvenel that the object of his Government in agreeing to sign the Convention was to force the Western Powers to treat the Southern privateers as pirates, arguing that, as the Government of Washington was the only Government recognised by the Foreign Powers, the Southern States must, as far as Foreign Powers were concerned, be subject to the consequences of the acts of that Government." 1368 "The Government of the United States are at last prepared to sign and seal an engagement, pure and simple, and by so doing to sacrifice the hope of attaining, at least for the present, an improvement of it, to which they have always attached great value. But, just at the moment when their concurrence with the views of the other Maritime Powers of the world would seem to be certain, they are met with a proposition from one, if not more of the parties, to accompany the act with a proceeding somewhat novel and anomalous in this case, being the presentation of a written declaration, not making a part of the convention itself, but intended to follow the signature, to the effect that, 'Her Majesty does not intend thereby to undertake any engagement which shall have any bearing, direct or indirect, on the internal differences now prevailing in the United States.' Obviously a consent to accept a particular exception susceptible of so wide a construction of a joint instrument, made by one of the parties to it in its own favour at the time of signing, would justify the idea that some advantage is, or may be suspected to be, intended to be taken by the other. The natural effect of such an accompaniment would seem to be to imply that the Government of the United States might be desirous at this time to take a part in the Declaration, not from any high purpose or durable policy, but with the view of securing some small temporary object in the unhappy struggle which is going on at home. Such an inference would spoil all the value that might be attached to the act itself. The mere toleration of it would seem to be equivalent to a confession of their own weakness. Rather than that such a record should be made, it were a thousand times better that the Declaration remain unsigned for ever. If the parties to the instrument are not to sign it upon terms of perfect reciprocity, with all their duties and obligations under it perfectly equal, and without equivocation or reservation of any kind on any side, then it is plain that the proper season for such an engagement has not yet arrived. It were much wiser to put it off until nations can understand each other better." 1369 "Gentlemen, the Government always feels deeply indebted to the great commercial communities which are kind enough to impart to us, from time to time, their suggestions for the remedy of existing evils. We know well that no Executive Government can be so perfectly informed of all the detailed operations of commerce as to be able, without such assistance, to devise those measures which may be best calculated to set free the industry of the country, and to give the greatest development to commercial enterprise."
 MR. HORSFALL : What I contended for was that all private property should be respected.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I would submit to the House whether, under the circumstances in which this Resolution has been moved by the noble Lord—who is not now in his place—there is much advantage in the prolongation of this discussion, or in taking a vote on the subject of the Resolution; for the Resolution is one that, in the first place, embraces matters not only so complicated but so heterogeneous that obviously they
 1348 1349 1350
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I therefore wish to supply some information to the noble Lord. The Committee of Selection was fully consulted last year by the Government on this subject, and it declined to undertake this duty, giving for its refusal what we deemed very fair reasons. It was thought that the nomination should be made by the Government in concert, of course, with all the Members of this House of the greatest weight and authority on such subjects. Therefore the noble Lord, instead of persevering with this Resolution, would do much better if he would permit us to pursue the course which we have already announced to the House our intention to adopt, and allow us again to appoint the Committee of Public Accounts, with the view of ultimately providing for the Sessional appointment of that Committee. 1351 ad libitum 1352
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, several efforts had been made by Gentlemen who had held his office to improve the old savings banks, but without success, and it would be invidious in him to discourage the right hon. Member who had just spoken. The question as to the liability of trustees for their acts was a very difficult one. On that point the measure of 1844 was most unfortunate, and it would be well if the law could be amended without inflicting unnecessary hardships on individuals. As the Bill had been introduced a sufficient time before the second reading for the parties interested to state their views, he thought it was entitled to consideration. He must, however, reserve the right of Government to take any course they pleased on the second reading.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : But you said I spoke of the Bill.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The hon. Gentleman is in error. I did not speak of the Appropriation Act; but of the Clause.
 MR. DEEDES  said, that he should not oppose the Motion on behalf of the Ecclesiastical Commission in the face of the adherence of the Government. At the same time he did not think that sufficient grounds had been laid, for the proposed Committee. The labours of the Ecclesiastical Commission had been incessant, and directed to the fulfilment of the behests of Parliament. As a Member of the Commission, he did not shrink from inquiry, but repeated interference tended to impede their action, and that action ought not to be interfered with unless some real reason was shown.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether in the anticipated attack on the city of Shanghai by the Taepings, it is intended to preserve a strict neutrality between the Imperialists and the Taepings, due provision being made for the safety of the foreign settlements in the neighbourhood of Shanghai; and whether there is any foundation for a statement in a Paris paper—that the French representatives at
 1306
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that the reasons advanced by the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) against the Motion were not to his mind satisfactory. The subject under discussion had been before the House several times, and it had always met with an evasive answer. It was his opinion that the Crown Property would be far better managed if it were under the control of Parliament. He found, from a return which had been
 1357
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, that as the noble Lord (Lord Robert Montagu) did not appear to anticipate any assistance either from the Government  in esse in posse, 1329 1330 1331
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  remarked, that having been one of the Members of the Public Monies Committee, and having attended its sittings with great care and attention, he was anxious to say a few words on the subject. He believed that the appointment of that Committee was due to a speech he had made in Supply. He remembered that the view taken by the Chancellor of the Exchequer of that day (Sir George Lewis), who represented the Government on that Committee, and also by the late Mr. Wilson, was that the ancient and constitutional control exercised by the Exchequer was useless, and caused delay in the management of the public affairs. Mr. Wilson stated an opinion to this effect—that the public money ought to be paid into one account at the Bank of England, and that the Treasury should have unlimited power to draw on that account, subject only to the control of that House. A great deal of evidence was taken by the Committee, and the result thereof was decidedly opposed to the opinion he had just cited. His own opinion was, that this constitutional control, so far from being relaxed, should be strengthened, as affording a means of ensuring the application of money to the particular service for which it had been voted. Without this control the supervision exercised by that House would be entirely useless. With regard to what his noble Friend had said on the subject of Trans-
 1332 1333
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he wished to explain, that when he said that in warfare on land private property was respected, he did not mean to say that there might not be excesses committed against private property in such warfare, or that in cases of necessity violations, more or less, of the rights of private property might not take place. What he intended to say was, that in warfare on land private property was not system-
 1389
 SIR. GEORGE BOWYER  said, he thought the question lay in a very narrow compass. This country being a great naval power, it was perhaps desirable that the rights of belligerents should be as widely extended as possible; therefore it was very questionable whether it was altogether prudent for England to concur in the Declaration of Paris, but that Declaration was an accomplished fact, and it would be little better than a waste of time to discuss it further. The real question before the House might be shortly stated. When a man marched at the head of an army into a country and conquered it, he did not interfere with private property. The rule of international law put him in possession of the government of the conquered country, but it did not entitle him to interfere with the rights of private property. It was difficult to understand why the same rule should not prevail with respect to naval warfare. The Roman Emperor said in the  Pandects, "Egoterræ dominus, lex maris," 1380
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that on the part of the Government he was willing to assent to the appointment of the Committee, as they thought that there was sufficient grounds for an inquiry. At the same time it must be admitted that immense benefit had been derived from the exercise of the powers vested in the Ecclesiastical Commission.
 SIR HENRY STRACEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, If it be the intention of the Government to carry out the purport of a Correspondence between the Mayor of Yarmouth and the Secretary of State for War, in 1859, relative to rendering the Port of Great Yarmouth in a proper state of defence?
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that after the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer he heartily congratulated his noble Friend, not only on having made a very clear and telling statement, and on the pains he had usefully bestowed upon a dry and uninviting question, but also upon the substantial success he had met with in making his Motion. He confessed that until he had heard the right hon. Gentleman's speech he was in some doubt as to the course he should himself pursue in regard to the Resolution, because, while there was much in it in which he entirely agreed, yet there were different matters blended in it of so incompatible a nature that he would have felt great difficulty in voting with his noble Friend. But, after what had just fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, and after the course the debate had taken, he did not think it
 1353 1354 1355 nil. 1356
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON :: I have no objection to the Motion of my hon. Friend, for I think this is a question of the greatest possible importance to the interests of the country, and one, therefore, which requires to be fully discussed. My own opinion is—and I hope that it will be the opinion of the House—that the principle which the hon. Member for Liverpool recommends, if carried into practice, would level a fatal blow at the naval power of this country, and would be an act of political suicide. I therefore entirely concur in the Motion for adjournment. We shall be perfectly ready to assist the hon. Member in fixing a day for resuming the debate.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I am willing to let the debate come on the first thing on Monday night next.
 MR. LYGON  said, that he begged to second the Motion.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he hoped it would not be thought unreasonable to ask that a considerable time should be allowed before the second reading of the Bill. It was only on the previous night that notice of the matter was given, and no one could judge from such notice what the scope of the measure might be.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  replied that the Bill would not deal with cases of that kind. There was a third class, however, who might make the declaration under the Bill—namely, those who entertained conscientious scruples with respect to subscription to the Thirty-nine Articles and other formulas of the Church of England, but who wished to remain as lay members of her Communion.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, he had placed on the paper a notice of his intention to Move in Committee of the Whole House for leave to bring in a Bill for the relief of persons in Holy Orders of the United Church of England and Ireland declaring their dissent therefrom, and he therefore begged leave to move that Mr. Speaker do leave the chair.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, that no Bill relating to religion or trade could be introduced except in Committee of the whole House. It would be more regular, therefore, that he should make his statement in Committee.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, it would be in the recollection of some hon. Members, that about thirteen years ago a gentleman, who had been a clergyman of the Church of England, but who had dissented from
 1404 1405
 MR. LEFROY  said, that as the Bill was to extend to Ireland, he hoped as much time as possible would be given for the consideration of its provisions.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, if the House were to allow a person to liberate himself from trammels which were distasteful to him, they would offer a decided premium to his going further and professing himself a Dissenter.
 MR. BALL  said, that the question had been so much discussed that it was not likely anything new could be said on the subject; but in common with many other hon. Members, he thought the House ought to consider whether something could not be done to relieve the inconvenience and suffering of persons who had entered into this prohibited relationship. There was no authority which they could so well consult for right guidance on the question as the Word of God, which was not only silent, but, fairly construed, gave permission and sanction to marriage with a deceased wife's sister. Nay, more, it rather recommended and encouraged it. The Jews, who had received the Divine law on the subject, had from that time recognised the necessity of these marriages, and had given encouragement and sanction to their contraction. Such being the case, he thought that House had no right to restrict the opinions and inclinations of the people at large. The tendency of passing laws in opposition to the commonly received opinions of the people was to weaken respect for the law, especially amongst the lower classes. Whether it was or was not a poor man's
 1399
 MR. HUNT  said, he rose to move that the Committee be deferred for six months. He did not think that the promoters of the Bill ought to expect any apology from him for again challenging the opinion of the House on its principles, when they remembered that the second reading had only been carried by a majority of eleven at an early period of the Session, in a thin House, and when many of the Scotch representatives were absent. He took a very strong view of the question, considering as he did that the Bill, if carried, would bring about a very great social revolution. At present they had this principle to guide them—that degrees of affinity were on a par with degrees of consanguinity; but if that principle were once broken in upon, where did the promoters of the measure propose to stop? No satisfactory reply to that question had as yet been given to the House. The Bill on the table was intituled "A Bill to render legal certain marriages of affinity;" but when hon. Members came to look at the clauses of the Bill, they found that all it sought to do was to legalize marriage with the sister of a deceased wife. Let the House once concede that, and on what ground could they then prevent a man from marrying the mother of his deceased wife? He challenged the promoters of the Bill to give an answer to that. If they were prepared to say, "Let us sweep away all the barriers to matrimony by reason of affinity," then the exact position of the case would be known; but he protested against being left at sea as to the principle upon which the law was based with regard to marriages. As to the grievances of those who had contracted marriage with a deceased wife's sister, there might be instances in which he felt compassion for such persons; but that was a very good saying in Westminster Hall—"Hard cases make bad law." He protested against altering the principle of our laws to meet hard cases. If a man deliberately and designedly chose to transgress the law of the country, he had no  locus standi 1397 "Wild in woods the naked savage ran," 1398
 MR. HUBBARD  said, that in the declaration required of a minister he would have to state his conscientious dissent from the doctrine of the Church of England. That implied that he was going to leave the communion of the Church. He thought it important that the House should be informed whether the right hon. Gentleman proposed to provide relief for those who, without leaving the Church of England, were anxious to divest themselves of their clerical character.
 MR. GREGSON  said, that the great preponderance of petitions and signatures since 1857 had been in favour of the present Bill. While the signatures to petitions in favour of the Bill exceeded 1,000,000, there were only 140,000 signatures to the petitions against it.
 MR. MONSELL  said, that he entirely agreed in the opinion that it was wrong to keep upon the statute book any law that was adverse to the general feeling of the people. With regard to Ireland and Scotland, there was, he believed, no difference of opinion in that House that in both these countries there existed the strongest and most earnest feeling against the passing of this Bill. He did not consider himself at liberty to mention all the instances that had come under his knowledge of the intensity of this feeling in Ireland; but when, unfortunately, marriages of the kind under consideration had been celebrated abroad between persons of high. position, when the parties in
 1400 "Before this time there was almost a general consent upon this proposition, that the Levitical Degrees do not by any law of God bind Christians to their observance." 1401 vice versâ. "Wedded love with loyal Christians, Lady, is a mystery rare; Body, heart, and soul in union, Make one being of a pair." 1402
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  asked whether the right hon. Gentleman ought not first to explain his Bill, so as to show some ground for going into Committee.
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  said, it would be very ungracious, after what his right hon. Friend had stated, to refuse leave to introduce the Bill; but the few remarks that had been just made would show that the ease was not after all so very clear.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, it was with great reluctance that he differed from so many of his hon. Friends on the question. He could not, however, avoid the conclusion that the theological argument against the Bill rested on very faint and inefficient grounds. He wanted to know whether the law on the subject was not in a very unsatisfactory state; whether, in fact, the law since 1836 had not been a blot on the statute-book, and almost a discredit to Parliamentary Legislation. Could anything be more anomalous or illogical than a law that condoned all former offences, and yet inflicted the most cruel and unchristian injury on those who should hereafter contract similar marriages? Christian duty and Christian feeling alike pointed out that the natural protector of a deceased sister's children would be the sister, who would occupy not only the position of a stepmother, but also that of an aunt; nor could he understand that any of the happiness or purity which now prevailed in families would be overthrown by the liberty to contract such marriages. The privilege of living with one's relations was the privilege of the higher, and not of the lower classes. Those who had to seek their living were compelled to go into service or engage in trade, and it was their constant fate seldom to see their relatives. But it was a monstrous proposition to suppose, that if the Bill passed, a man was never to see in his own house or to live on intimate terms with a person whom he might marry after the decease of his wife. A man could marry his own or his wife's cousins, yet it was never alleged that he could not enjoy their society. He believed it to be a poor man's question, and, viewed in that light, he could not conceive any law more repugnant to Christian motives and principle than that which it was now sought to repeal. He would mention the case of a poor man in Sussex, whose wife died, leaving six children, who were brought up by a younger sister, who ultimately took her sister's place. She saved the children
 1403
 MB. ARTHUR MILLS  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether a Patent, dated July 9, 1861, appointing a Metropolitan Bishop in Canada has been returned to the Colonial Office for revision; and whether the attention of Her Majesty's Government has been called to the circumstance that the Patent in question may involve an infraction of the provisions of the Act 19 & 20  Vict.,
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : Sir, I rise to move the Resolution of which I have given notice, with a view of bringing the Vote of Sandhurst College under the consideration of the House; and I believe it will be more convenient that I should make my statement on this Motion, inasmuch as the House will then have full discretion whether to go into Committee or not, and will be able to vote with a full knowledge of all the circumstances of the case. Now, Sir, the Committee of Supply have decided to reject a Vote of £ 10,787 for increasing the Royal Military College at Sandhurst. The question which I shall have to submit is, whether the House will again go into Committee of Supply with the purpose of reviewing that decision? The Vote was, in fact, a repetition of the Vote of last year. Last year a plan was introduced into the House by my hon. Friend (Mr. T. G. Baring) then Under Secretary for War, according to which all persons entering the army were to pass through the College of Sandhurst, whether their Commissions were obtained by purchase or without purchase. That was the plan which had been proposed by His Royal Highness the Commander-in-Chief and sanctioned by my predecessor, and which was then opened to the House by my hon. Friend. Some debate arose on that proposition, and a division took place, and my hon. Friend agreed to postpone the ultimate decision on the plan until Parliament had had an opportunity of reviewing the question. But, in consequence of the division that took place, my hon. Friend gave notice that the Vote of last year, £ 15,000, would be expended in the course of the year. There is no doubt at all on that point; and the money was voted by this House, but voted, not as sufficient for carrying the plan which had been proposed by my hon. Friend into effect, but merely as an instalment of the sum which would be necessary for that purpose. It was distinctly understood by the House that to the extent of that £ 15,000 the War Department were at
 1420 "For the purpose of obviating objections as to the large amount of patronage at the Horse Guards and the number of first commissions given away, the Commander-in-Chief opened a plan, whereby henceforth there should be only one en-
 1421 1422 1423 1424 1425 Britannia 1426 "War Office, Jan. 27, 1862. "With reference to the letter from this department of the 8th instant, I am directed by Secretary Sir George Lewis to inform you that, having had the subject therein adverted to under his further consideration, and having conferred thereon with His Royal Highness the General Commanding-in-Chief, he is of opinion that candidates who may have passed the first and second examinations (called Responsions and Moderations) at the University of Oxford, may, upon certificates being furnished by the Examiners of their possessing the necessary qualifications in the subjects included in those examination, be exempted from any additional examination of a preliminary character in the same for admission to Sandhurst as military cadets; and I am further to state, that should the candidates from the University exceed the limits of the  maximum
 GENERAL PEEL  said, that there was hardly any Member in that House whose attention had been more closely directed to the question of admission into the army through the Military College at Sandhurst than his own during the last three or four years. He need hardly say that the question under discussion was not one which should be treated in a party spirit. It was a question in which the interests of the British army were involved, and he had a particular reason for saying that to make it a party question would be, not only very improper, but also very inconvenient. A few years ago many hon. Gentlemen whom he saw opposite entertained very different opinions from those which they held now. When he became Secretary for War in the Administration of the Earl of Derby, he found that his predecessor, Lord Panmure, had established a plan according to which every candidate for admission into the army was required to go to Sandhurst. That plan was actually in operation when he went to the War Office, and it was applied even to candidates for admission into the scientific branches. The only alteration he made was this—having found that a great hardship was felt by gentlemen who were preparing for Woolwich in consequence of the change in the age, he had allowed two additional examinations to take place for Woolwich. What was the consequence? The right hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. Monsell) moved an Address to the Crown, praying that the old practice might be reverted to, and he had a perfect right to do so; he did not approve the plan that had been adopted, and he was perfectly certain, if it had continued to be carried on by his predecessor, the right hon. Gentleman would equally have objected to it. The fact, however, was, that every Gentleman on the other side voted on that occasion against Sandhurst, and those on his side of the House voted for it. The plan laid before him by the Council of Education, when he was Secretary at War, went to this extent that every person entering the army should pass through a military college. The hon.
 1435 1436
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, he was not in so fortunate a position with regard to the question as the hon. Member for Liskeard. He had twice voted on the subject against the Government, but after the explanations given he should, on the present occasion, record his vote in their favour. When the Vote was brought before the House last year, he opposed it on the ground of the scantiness of the information supplied, and because he objected to pass every officer of the British army through an establishment without some security that it would be an efficient one. The Government on that occasion, however, had given the information which was wanting. They had been told that the accommodation to be provided was for 336 young men; and though it was within his knowledge that the accommodation originally provided in Sandhurst was for 405, practically the provision fell far short of what was necessary; and he believed if the requisite accommodation was to be made for students of an advanced age, it was not more than sufficient for the number now proposed to be sent. Then he felt no objection to the end to the object to be accomplished—namely, that of giving a professional education to young men intended for officers of the army for one year, after the termination of their ordinary school education. His objection to the scheme of last year
 1437
 MR. E. ELLICE (St. Andrews)  said, that before the right hon. Baronet rose he was anxious to ask him another question with respect to the Ordnance survey of Scotland. A map of that country had been promised for the last thirty years; yet they were nearly as far from obtaining it as they had been ten years ago. The representatives of Scotland had been startled and alarmed at hearing, on the authority of Sir H. James, that, part of the money voted for the purposes of the Ordnance survey of Scotland had been employed on defence surveys in other parts of the country, and that the Staff had been removed for the same purpose. That was not proper treatment either of Scotland or of the House of Commons. He wished to ask the right hon. Baronet whether the money voted for the Ordnance survey of Scotland would be applied to the vigorous prosecution of that object; and whether the money diverted from that object last year would be restored to its original purpose? It was hard that the Bill for the defences should be made to appear less
 1451
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that in answer to the first question of the hon. Member for Evesham (Sir Henry Willoughby) he had to state that the nine non-purchase infantry regiments and the three cavalry regiments were included in the number shown in the Army Estimates as being on the Indian establishment. The hon. Member also asked, whether the licences for competing for the first commissions in those regiments were granted by the Commander-in-Chief. The commissions would be competed for by the students at Sandhurst after residence there 'for one year, with the exception of twenty Queen's cadets, who would not be subjected to a competitive but to a qualifying examination. With regard to the second question, relative to the Ordnance frauds, it was true that a sergeant, engaged as a clerk in the Engineer Office, and another person, had been engaged in certain fraudulent transactions; but those persons were not officially connected with each other. The frauds amounted in value to £23,000, and extended over a period of thirteen years, having been commenced in 1848; but it was quite clear that they were not in any way connected with the consolidation of the Ordnance and War Departments. Effectual steps had been "taken for the prevention of similar frauds. 1452
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the Vote had already been discussed; and the only thing that had been postponed was the Vote for Sandhurst. As to the item for
 1457
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he wished to know what was the meaning of the item of £2,000 for erecting a trial but at Hong Kong?
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the item to which the hon. and gallant General referred was for the purpose of making an experiment in the construction of a specie of barrack at Hong Kong which should he simple and cheap. Money with that view had been voted last year, but had not been expended. The item was therefore merely a re-Vote.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the regiment in question was divided—one wing of it had already arrived at Halifax, and the other wing was on its way to Canada. Looking at the unfortunate result of the second attempt, the War Office had decided not to order the second wing to cross the Atlantic again, and the wing that was at Halifax would be ordered to return to this country.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he had not held out as an inducement to the Committee to assent to the Vote under discussion the circumstance that new regulations as to non-purchase had been introduced. He had simply stated it to be the fact that certain alterations in that respect had taken place; he might add that the arrangements which had been made in concert with the Indian Government in reference to the subject were intended to
 1458 ad captandum 1459
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that when the question of the amalgamation of the Imperial and of the Indian armies was before Parliament, the regulations with respect to the non-purchase system in India had been frequently made the subject of discussion. His belief was that there were no regulations in force with regard to the sale of commissions in that country.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that an
 1461
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he had every reason to believe that no further Vote would be required for building purposes, though he would not undertake to say that an additional sum would not be wanted to complete the internal accommodation of Sandhurst. The plan of military education announced last year had not been produced, because it had been abandoned and a new scheme substituted in its place.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  stated, that according to the plan of last year, every officer entering the army was to pass through Sandhurst. The Government had since decided not to act upon that plan, but to adopt the more limited one which he had described that night, and by which only those officers who had not purchased their commissions were to pass through the Military College. He had no objection to lay the new scheme before the House.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that the sums proposed for gymnasia and reading-rooms for soldiers were certainly not of any considerable amount, but they were as large as the Government then felt justified in asking the House to grant. It should
 1462
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the Vote consisted of a great variety of detail's which it would be impossible to explain within moderate limits.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said the expenditure of the Vote would be entirely under the control of the War Office. It was intended for the detailed improvement of barracks, and it was impossible to give a more specific description of its destination; it would be as easy to specify contingencies. There were a number of small improvements required for the health of soldiers in military barracks in this country, and this Vote was proposed with that view. If the sum taken proved too large for the purpose, it would not be expended,
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he knew that the whole of the medical officers of our army felt justly affronted at seeing a civilian placed at the head of the sanitary commission. The military medical men were a most distinguished body, and he thought that their feeling on the subject was quite natural. He wished to know whether Dr. Sutherland's salary was included in the £30,000.
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, that this sanitary Vote was one in which the late Lord Herbert took especial interest. Its origin was a Resolution of the House of Commons proposed by the present Lord Fortescue, and agreed to without any opposition. It had been found that soldiers in the prime of life were dying in consequence of the defective ventilation of barracks; and if not as a matter affecting the humanity, the honour, and the credit of the country, yet even from motives of economy, it was desirable that there should be perfect ventilation and perfect drainage in those buildings. Nothing was more expensive than a well-trained soldier. The late Lord Herbert himself visited many barracks, and noticed their defects, in a sanitary point of view, and he joined in many of the detailed reports which the Sanitary Commissioners presented from time to time regarding the health of the troops. Dr. Sutherland, one of the Commissioners was a very high authority upon
 1464
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, it was for the wives and widows of soldiers.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, it was impossible for the Government altogether to overlook mercantile principles. They must consider the value of an article in the market, and could not make contracts on a basis of mere charity. If once they considered the supply of the army as a means of improving the condition of distressed persons, he hardly knew where they would stop. But the War Office had, nevertheless, made some contracts at slightly increased prices with certain societies which employed needlewomen.
 LORD STANLEY  said, he would ask what number of young gentlemen entering Sandhurst would obtain commissions in proportion to the number of competitors?
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, it was reckoned that there would be 296 candidates for about 116 commissions.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, that every officer of Artillery he had spoken to had given a directly opposite account of the officers who entered the army under the present system to that given by the right hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. Monsell). Nothing could be more disgraceful than the recent occurrences at the Military College at Woolwich. There was neither the same  esprit de corps
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he had
 1465
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he could not remain silent while such opprobrious language was used in reference to the Military Academy at Woolwich.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he had had the opportunity of reading the Report presented as the result of the inquiry that had taken place into that outbreak, and he believed that the principal cause of the
 1467
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he would remind the hon. Member that the ringleaders in the outbreak were rusticated. A punishment sufficiently severe to mark the reprobation of the Commander-in-Chief of such conduct was, he thought, inflicted. But although a due discretion was exercised in the assignment of that punishment, he could hardly conceive that what seemed to him to be a judicious lenity should be construed into a proof of the innocence of the persons concerned in what unquestionably was a grievous breach of discipline.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he was not aware of any impression of the sort to which the hon. and learned Gentleman referred, and so far as the Government were concerned the hon. and learned Gentleman was at liberty to take the division whenever he thought it most expedient. He had already so fully stated the plan he proposed, and explained his reasons for it, that he could scarcely say anything further on the subject. If the Universities of Oxford, Cambridge, and Dublin were allowed to send students up to the military examinations who had not passed through Sandhurst, other places of education would claim the same privilege. The Universities of London, Edinburgh, Glasgow, St. Bee's, and other places, would put in a claim to be admitted  ad eundem,
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he should give his support to the Government on that occasion. He thought the objection to the Universities as places for the education of officers was the greater age at which they would enter the army. The smooth-faced boys who in former days entered the service from Eton and Harrow came to their regiments full of life and energy, and with a very moderate opinion of their own merits which was a great recommendation in an officer; and by the time those youths were eighteen they were not only drilled soldiers, but, which was of much more importance, they had disciplined minds. And had the boy-officers ever flinched from their duty? In the Crimean war what most astonished and delighted the soldiers was the example of cheerfulness set by these youthful officers when undergoing the same hardships as the troops, during
 1473
 LORD STANLEY  had nothing to say against Sandhurst, but he could not follow the process of reasoning by which it was proposed to confer a monopoly in military training on that establishment. It was not a mere question between Sandhurst and the Universities of Oxford, Cambridge, and Dublin, but between Sandhurst and all the rest of the world. He could understand that no one should be admitted into the service who had not acquired a certain amount of professional qualification. That was very proper; but he did not understand what it concerned the Government, or any one else, where that qualification was obtained, so long as it was possessed. It might he said there were facilities for professional instruction at Sandhurst not to be found elsewhere. That might be, and he believed it was the fact; but that was the candidate's own affair. If a candidate could obtain instruction better at Sandhurst than at any other place, then Sand-
 1474
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the statement of the noble Lord (Lord Stanley) had placed the question on a definite issue—"Will you take these young men after they have undergone one examination upon what is now pretty generally known as the system of 'cram and sham'? Or will you not adopt the surer test of having them under your own eye for a year, when you will know whether they have anything in them or not?" For himself, he had no particular faith in a system which brought men from north and from south, from east and from west, and then suddenly let off the information with which they were crammed, like the charge in a pop-gun. The science of cram had now arrived at such a pitch of excellence that uncommon little reliance was to be placed on the results of examination. It was like bringing a horse to the post. A horse was brought into such condition, and trained to such a nicety, that if he ran on the expected day, he was sure to be pretty well up at the finish; but if he was not brought to the scratch at the particular moment, he would, perhaps, be good for nothing. The hon. Member (Mr. Ayrton) had propounded a singular proposition. "Let your officers," he said, "first get their commissions, and then teach them their business." But was that principle carried out in other professions? A man was not allowed to practise at the bar until he was supposed to have learned something of law; and so it was with the clergy. Would the hon. Member like to have a doctor learning his business by practising upon his own person? Surely an officer should have acquired a knowledge of his profession before you gave him a commission, and the best plan was to make him acquire that knowledge under your own eye. He did not think a system of open running was so likely to secure the best men as the present more qualified system, A few nights before, he had voted for the extension of the Sandhurst establishment, because he had been unable to see why it should not be extended, when the army had been so much increased; but he should object to a proposition to make every officer pass through the college, agreeing as he did with his right hon. Friend the Member for Huntingdon, that it was better to have gentlemen entering the army in different ways, in order
 1478
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that if the House were never to agree to a Vote for the Ordnance Survey until all inquiry into the subject was at end, he feared they would wait a long time; for as long as he could remember there had always been an investigation, or a Committee, or a Commission, or an inquiry of some kind on the subject of the Ordnance Survey. Certainly it was his opinion that a great deal of money had been wasted. If the large plan under the consideration of the Committee to which his hon. Friend had referred were adopted, and the Government proposed to carry it out, he should be obliged to submit a supplementary Estimate, for there was nothing which would cover it in the present Estimate.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that the survey for the 6-inch and 26-inch scale was only in progress in England in six of the northern counties. The Estimate before the Committee did not assume that the 6-inch and 25-inch survey would be carried over the rest of England, nor would the adoption of this Vote prejudice the Report of the Select Committee when it came before the House. The Government, in asking for the Vote, expressed no opinion for or against the 1-inch scale, and they would be quite free to act upon the report of the Committee if the Vote were agreed to.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, if the omission of the item would in any way facilitate discussion on the point, he should not be so unreasonable as to refuse to consent to the course proposed; but the Estimate on the table did not affect the ques-
 1481
 MR. PEEL  said, the Committee, after pointing out the defects in the present system of audit, had not proposed any particular form of remedy, but had contented themselves with calling the attention of Government to the subject. As soon as possible after the Report was presented the Treasury placed themselves in communication with the Audit Board, and had been informed from time to time that steps were being taken to carry out the recommendations of the Committee. In compliance with suggestions from the same quarter, and the Act of Parliament passed last Session to give effect to them, an account of the expenditure of the revenue departments for the year 1861–2 would shortly be sent to the Audit Board, and by them dealt with as the Act directed. He had likewise taken care to comply with the final recommendation of the Committee, that the items for Works should be presented in greater detail than hitherto.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he could not say that the hon. Gentleman was  ipsis Hibernis Hibernior, 1486 Nisi Prius, Gazette Will. 1487 "Whereas great inconvenience resulted on the demise of the Crown with respect to the renewal of military commissions, be it enacted that all such commissions continue in force until cancelled."
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he would answer the question. The Commander-in-Chief submitted the names of persons whom he recommended for commissions. Her Majesty placed her sign manual at the top of the list if she approved of it, and there were written directions at the bottom to the Secretary of State to issue commissions to the persons named, and she signed that also.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, it was impossible to overrate the importance of the question put to him, or for one moment to suppose that the Admiralty
 1454 Victoria Victoria Revenge, Hawke, Victoria, 1455 Trojan, Victoria 1456
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, if the hon. Member wished to ascertain whether the Government had any intention of bringing in the same Bill this year which
 1419
 LORD HOTHAM  said, as the subject was of great interest to the profession to which he belonged, he could not reconcile it with his feelings to give a silent vote upon it. Two distinct issues had been raised—namely, Whether a breach of faith had been committed by the Government; and whether they ought to have expended a certain sum of money, which it was admitted they had expended without the authority of the House. The charge of breach of faith had not been relied upon, and it did not appear to him that it afforded any justification for refusing the Vote. It appeared that a certain sum of money was voted last year for Sandhurst College, but all not having been expended, Her Majesty's Government paid the balance into the Exchequer; and the money being now required, this Vote was proposed for the purpose of getting it back. Had there been any breach of faith on the part of the Government, the proper and constitutional course for the House to adopt would have been absolutely to reject the Vote; and in such a state of things he should not have hesitated to concur in that proceeding, leaving those who made contracts to find the means of settling them as best they could, and trusting to the vigilance of the hon. Member for Evesham (Sir Henry Willoughby) to prevent this expenditure from creeping into the Appropriation Act in some other guise. The question, however, was narrowed to this point—whether the gentlemen who obtained commissions without purchase should be required to undergo a military education at Sandhurst. That a military education of some kind was desirable for every officer entering the army nobody denied; and on none could that condition be imposed with more propriety
 1440
 MR. AYRTON  said, the proposed system had been tried with the view of admitting persons to the civil service of India; but it had failed, and it was therefore given up, having been found not only inconvenient but unjust. It might seem a paradox, but nevertheless he held that the education a man should receive should be every education but that of his profession. In that distinction existed the difference between the man of liberal mind and the man of narrow mind. Every mechanic was educated with special reference to the trade he was to follow—his education was narrowed to that particular pursuit. But the professional man received a good sound general education in all the branches of knowledge with which his mind was able to cope, and then devoted himself to the study of the profession of his choice. So it should be with those destined for the army. But, in point of fact, Sandhurst was not an institution solely for military education. Otherwise, for what purpose were professors of mathematics, French, German, classics, and general history found there. Now, what he and others asked was that, until they became officers, young men should be at liberty to obtain their education wherever they pleased, and should not be forced to enter what was called a military college to receive an education which they could obtain as well", or perhaps better, elsewhere. Again, injustice was done by the proposition of the Government to the various educational establishments throughout the kingdom, and also to the young men who would have to come to this country from Ireland and Scotland on the chance of passing, but with the certainty that two-thirds of the entire number would be rejected. Their families would thus be made miserable, and they would themselves be prejudiced by being specially educated for a profession which they could not attain.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he would remind the Committee of the irregularity of the discussion, and suggest that they should pass to the next Vote at once.
 MR FINLAY  observed, that he regarded the question as purely a financial one. After establishing the college at Sandhurst it seemed a hard thing not to vote the necessary money for its support.
 MR. LEFROY  observed, that the Universities did not seek to engross the whole training of military officers, but only to supply them with the elements of a sound liberal education. He believed, however, that the special education for military purposes which officers would receive at Sandhurst would be a great advantage to them, and therefore he would support the grant.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he wished to observe, in reply to a statement of the hon. Baronet the Member for Buckingham (Sir Harry Verney), that during the whole Peninsular war officers of the Artillery and Engineers entered upon their duties after only One year's training at Woolwich, and he believed that period Would be found sufficient for officers at Sandhurst. He did not believe that henceforward officers who might pass through Sandhurst would be looked down upon in the army merely because they had not purchased their commissions.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he had to complain that the nature of the course of instruction to be pursued at Sandhurst had not been submitted to the notice of the House, although it had last year been stated by the hon. Gentleman then Under Secretary for War that it was awaiting the signature of the Sovereign. He also wished to know how admission to Sandhurst was to be obtained, because if it were by nomination, the patronage of the Horse Guards, so far from being diminished, would be considerably increased by the proposal of the Secretary for War. Another point on which he should like to have some information was whether the period of the residence of cadets at Sandhurst was to be limited to one year?
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he would beg leave to ask whether any further Votes would be wanted to complete Sandhurst, so as to enable it to accommodate 336 cadets? He also inquired why the plans and regulations relative to military education which were promised last Session had not been laid on the table?
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, there was no point which gave the Secretary of State for War more trouble than the sanitary improvement of the army. He un-
 1463
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, What is the nature of the new plan of Native Administration proposed by the Governor of New Zealand; and whether the Imperial Government will be free from responsibility for the scheme, and from the Military and Civil Expenditure involved in its adoption; and, also, whether the present number of Troops in that Colony is about to be reduced? He had given notice of the question, as that was the last opportunity the House would have during the present Session of considering the whole subject of the military expenditure going on in New Zealand; and that time next year would be too late for any consideration whatsoever of that important question. He wished to have a full state meat from Her Majesty's Government of what was being done in that colony There were 7,000 troops, besides the naval equipment, maintained for local purposes entirely at the cost of this country. In the town of Auckland the British troops formed a considerable portion of the entire population. By a Resolution which the House had adopted a few nights previously, it was decided that for the future the colonies of the country should he responsible for the maintenance of order within their own boundaries. No doubt, in assenting to that Resolution, the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies attempted to make an exception in favour of those colonies in which the colonists had to deal with native tribes, and New Zealand was so circumstanced; but the hon. Gentleman held out a prospect that immediate steps would be taken
 1442 1443 1444
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he wished to give notice that, in Committee, he would move the repeal of the clause which limited the duration of the Act.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  could not but remark upon the haste in which the clauses of the Bill had been framed. He thought it only reasonable that they ought to have a copy of the resolutions which bad been issued to the schools before they proceeded with the further stages of the Bill.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he wished to ask the hon. and learned Attorney General whether what was termed the submission list was not in reality, when it received the sign manual, the effectual authority. All that the Bill did was to give effect to that authority.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he wished to know how far the system of non-purchase of commissions was intended to be omitted or to be extended in the army of India, as well as in the army of this country?
 MR. SELWYN  said, he rose according to notice, to move the omission of the item of £12,700, the probable charge consequent on the augmentation of the establishment of the college at Sandhurst by increasing the number of students to 400. That item afforded him an opportunity of raising the question of principle, which he wished to raise unembarrassed by the difficulty experienced in the previous discussion on account of the money having been actually expended. The subject, however, had been so fully handled in the previous debates, that it was not necessary for him to do more than to clear away two or three misapprehensions which seemed to have arisen. He had never rested the case upon merely economical grounds, but had stated that the education of the officers of the army was so important, and their influence so wide-spread, that he should not grudge any expenditure necessary for securing the best education for them; but the Universities had made a proposal to the Government for effecting that object, and the question was whether that plan ought not to receive a fair trial before the Committee sanctioned, for the first time, this increased expenditure. It was hardly necessary to defend the Universities from the charge of interested motives in the offer they had made to the Government. Indeed, that offer was much more open to the observation of his right hon. Friend the Member for Huntingdon, who said it was questionable whether it would be advantageous to the Universities themselves. He had himself at first doubted whether it would be beneficial to the discipline of the Universities that young men should resort to them for military education; but the document to which he had before alluded, and which was signed by the Vice Chancellor and many other of the most eminent men at Cambridge, stated it as their opinion, formed after serious consideration, that the liberal offer which had been made to the Government might be carried into effect without injury to the discipline of the University—an opinion in which Oxford and Dublin had also subsequently concurred. His mis-
 1469 1470 pro formâ, "That the Item of £12,700, for the augmentation of the Establishment of the Royal Military, College by increasing the number of Cadets, be omitted from the proposed Vote."
 MR. SELWYN  said, that he had listened with ever-increasing astonishment to the successive speeches of the Secretary for War. He would, nevertheless, confine his observations within as narrow compass as possible. It was difficult to reconcile the speech of the right hon. Gentleman to which they had just listened with those delivered before, and it certainly had left the House in greater obscurity than ever as to the ultimate object of the Government proposal. The House, however, was asked to retrace the first step it had made in the path of retrenchment, and to give up the advantage of the only victory the friends of economy had gained. If that step had been taken in the dark, or that victory had been gained by surprise, there might have been some grounds for the re-
 1427 1428 1429 1430
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he believed there had been some recent complaints from India of deficiencies in the working of the electric telegraph, mainly owing to the employment of native signallers who were not quite competent for the work. Representations having been made to the Indian Government, a Committee was appointed, and the result had been that the Department had been reorganized. With regard to any particular appointments, he must remind the hon. Gentleman that they were all made in India. The Home Government did not interfere with the appointments made in India unless some special ground was shown for its interposition. He had not the least reason to suppose that any improper appointments had been made over the heads of qualified servants. With regard to two of the Officers in question, Major Douglas and Major Stewart, he did not believe that two persons better qualified could be found either in the Indian or any other service. Two other Officers who had been promoted had been for some time in the Departments. Looking to the anxiety of the Indian Government to put
 1418
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, that a Patent for appointing a Metropolitan Bishop in Canada had been twice sent back to the ecclesiastical authorities of the Colony for revision before it was finally adopted. With respect to the Act of the Canadian Parliament, the hon. Gentleman seemed to be under some misapprehension. The Act did not vest the appointment of all the Ecclesiastical Functionaries in Canadian Synods, although it left the Synods to make regulations which might involve that assumption. That assumption of power had not, in fact, been made by them. The Crown still appointed Canadian Bishops, although it appointed persons who had been recommended to it by the Diocesan Synods. The Secretary of State for the Colonies thought that the old form of Letters Patent was no longer suited to the present state of things, and he hoped to provide in future a new form of document, which would enable the Bishops in Canada to consecrate persons designated by the Diocesan Synods, reserving only to the Crown a veto on those appointments.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, that his right hon. Friend was quite correct in supposing that on a former occasion he had, when replying to the Motion of the hon. Member for Taunton, drawn what seemed to be the plain and inevitable distinction between the expenses of maintaining internal order—internal police—within colonies of British origin, and the expenses entailed by the defence
 1445 1446 1447
 MR. G. W. HOPE  said, his main objection to the plan had been removed by the explanation of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for War; but he warned the House that it was calculated only for a time of peace, and would not preclude enormous patronage in time of war, and, if carried on under the system and regulations established for Sandhurst in 1858, would inevitably be a failure.
 MR. WHITE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, If he is aware that the Electric Telegraph Service in that country is not in an efficient state either as regards engineering or management; whether the Government be of opinion that the recent appointment in India of three Military Officers to superior positions in that Service over the heads of duly qualified persons is not contrary to the previous orders of the Home Government; whether such appointments are not calculated to impair the confidence of the community in the efficiency of that Department; whether he is aware of any peculiar qualifications possessed by these officers to justify such exceptional appointments; and whether the Indian Government contemplate an immediate reorganization of the Indian Electric Telegraph Department?
 MR. WHITESIDE  remarked, that there were classes for engineering and other branches of military science at the Universities.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he did not think the right hon. Gentleman had given altogether a satisfactory explanation. It was necessary of course that men should qualify for the position of officers, and the more thoroughly that was done the better it would be for the service; but he could not understand why those who got their commissions without purchase should be subjected to a compulsory system of education, while those who bought their commissions could obtain their education where they chose. If an exclusive and compulsory system was desirable, why should it not be extended to the one class as well as the other? He fully agreed with the right hon. Gentleman that special military training was essential; but it might be procured elsewhere than at Sandhurst. Some of the best officers in the army came from Eton. The Vice Chancellor of the University he had the honour to represent very justly said that the Government system must have a tendency "to lower the intellectual culture of the army generally, by depriving it of the higher education which the Universities supply, and, at the same time, to engender that narrowness of mind which is the ordinary result of all exclusive professional training." On free-trade principles a man should be allowed to get his education in any Way he chose, and he could not understand why a liberal education should not be an excellent preliminary to the goosestep and parade drill.
 MR. WYLD  said, that whilst in previous years the item had been divided and apportioned to England, Scotland, and Ireland for some special purpose, that year one sum only was asked for the three countries; he could therefore understand the complaint that had been made that Scotland's portion had been diverted to some other part of the survey. Before the House entered upon the increased expenditure necessary for extending the large survey, they were bound to consider whether or not the sum proposed to be laid out could be laid out advantageously by a small annual Vote of £90,000 a year. A large portion of the Ordnance Survey was now so incorrect that there must be a re-survey, and a large portion of the expense to be incurred might go in aid of the large map contained in the Estimate. He might also add that the hon. Gentleman (Sir Morton Peto) had a precedent for the course which he proposed to take, for in 1859 the Committtee of Supply postponed the Survey Vote because the commission upon the subject had not made its Report.
 MR. DODSON  said, the question was whether the 25-inch scale should he continued or not; and he was of opinion that the hon. Baronet the Member for Finsbury was right in stating that the Vote ought to be postponed until after the Select Committee had presented their Report.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, the Minister who had charge of this Bill described it, on the second reading, as a matter of little moment; but he differed in opinion from the right hon. Gentleman, for he thought this measure one of great importance. He believed Her Majesty already possessed ample powers to accomplish the object which the Bill had in view, by Her Royal warrant; and if that were so, the Bill was not only unnecessary but dangerous, because it invaded the Royal prerogative. He begged the attention of the House to what Lord Coke had said on the subject of commissions—namely, that they were of two classes, those which sprang from the Royal prerogative, and those which sprang from the statute law. Now, Commissions in the army and militia belonged to the former class. They are pure prerogative commissions. In the second volume of  Blackstone, "When Charles I. had, during his northern expedition, issued commissions of lieutenancy and exerted some military powers, which, having been long exercised, were thought to belong to the Crown, it became a question in the Long Parliament how far the power of the Militia did inherently reside in the King, being unsupported by any statute, and founded only on immemorial usage. The question became at length the immediate cause of the fatal rupture between the King and his Parliament; the two Houses not only denying this prerogative of the Crown, but also seizing into their own hands the entire power of the Militia." "The notion that either or both Houses of Parliament, who possess no portion of executive authority, could take on themselves one of its most peculiar and important functions was so preposterous that we can scarcely give credit to the sincerity of any reasonable person who advanced it." "The power manifestly resided in the King." 1483 Chas. "This power ever was and is the undoubted right of His Majesty and his Royal Predecessors, Kings and Queens of England; and that both or either House of Parliament cannot nor ought to pretend to the same." "In the fifth year of the reign of Queen Mary, Her Majesty, in consequence of the great labour which she sustained in the government of the Kingdom, was unable without much danger and inconvenience to sign the commission, warrants, letters, missives, and other papers, and she therefore appointed certain persons, and gave them authority to seal the necessary instruments instead of the Queen. These persons were the Archbishop of York, the Lord Chancellor, the Master of the Horse, the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, and the Chancellor of the Order of the Gaiter." "This prerogative is generally, but not necessarily exercised by the person who has the custody of the Great Seal. It may be delegated to any other person, and even when granted to the Chancellor, as it almost universally has been, a special authority under the Royal sign manual seems necessary, for such authority does not appear to form part of the Chancellor's general jurisdiction. This warrant confers no jurisdiction, but merely a power of administration." 1484 "VICTORIA R.—Whereas it belongeth unto us in right of our Royal prerogative to have the custody of lunatics and their estates, they being in our immediate care, commitment, and disposal, which doth occasion multiplicity of suitors and addresses to our own person; we, therefore, for the ease of ourself and of the said suitors, do by these presents give and grant unto you full power and authority, without expecting any further special warrant from us, from time to time to give orders and warrants for the preparing of grants, and thereupon to make and pass commitments. And for so doing, this shall be your warrant. Given at our Palace of Buckingham House this 16th day of July, 1841, in the 5th year of our reign." "GEORGE R.—Whereas we have determined speedily to go in person beyond the seas, and we therefore by the advice of Our Council have constituted and appointed the said Lords Justices to execute the office of guardians and justices; and our will and pleasure is that all writs, letters patent, commissions, and other instruments or writings, which should, or ought to have or bear teste by or under ourself, shall bear teste in or under the name of the first for; the tame being of the said guardians and justices." 1485
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that as time came round they were able to draw conclusions with respect to their past policy which would be useful for the future. He had the honour of a seat in that House when the colonization of New Zealand took place, and he recollected that the question of the aborigines then came under discussion. He startled the House and the Prime Minister of the day (Sir Robert Peel)—who, it was said, had the faculty of assimilating other men's ideas—by saying that experience had shown that wherever the white man put down his foot by the side of the brown man the brown man disappeared. They might put off the moment, but the time would come when the brown man would be extinguished, and the sooner that consummation took place the better. All they did by their pretended humanity was to extend the time in which he lingered in his misery. We began our colonies always by an injustice. What right had we in New Zealand? We put our foot there, we took the land from the natives, and then with a sort of sanctimonious hypocrisy we turned round and said, "We know that we do you an injury, but we will do you the least possible injury." But there were certain persons, missionaries and others, who said, "We will preach the Gospel to those people; we will make them Christians; we will do all except do them justice. If we went away and allowed them to govern themselves and inhabit their own country without interfering with them, we should do them justice, but that we do not intend to do." They might depend upon it, their mode of life, their habits, their thoughts, their European civilization were destruction to the brown man. They signed his death-warrant when they put their foot upon the shore of New Zealand, and therefore they could not pretend to save him from the inevitable destruction which was coming upon him. And now came the right hon. Gentleman and said, "Oh, withdraw your troops; it is a great expense." Why, that expense was the very result of their mock humanity, their hypocrisy. Let the colonists be left to themselves, let them not be troubled with our ideas of justice, and they would settle the matter very quickly. For, what would they do? They would take possession openly and avowedly of the whole colony, and would say to the aborigines, "You must get away, and, if not, we will punish you." But, instead of leaving the colonists alone, they
 1449
 MR. HASSARD  said, that the ques-
 1480
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Sir, I think the House is now realizing the inconvenience, to say the least, of being called upon to discuss the enlargement of a public military college before we have had an opportunity of hearing Ministers propound their scheme of education. Tonight, for the first time, the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for War has
 1431 Astronomy of the Ancients 1432 1433 1434
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  asked the right hon. Gentleman to explain which was the old scheme and which was the new?
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, that the hon. Member opposite spoke of drawings. Now, the drawing to which he objected was that drawing of £30,000, The Vote, he thought, did not stand on satisfactory grounds. Let the right hon. Gentleman state what it was for. Besides that item there were distinct charges made for barrack improvements. "Sanitary purposes," like the word "contingencies," which appeared lower down, might mean anything. He had no wish to give a factious Vote, but it appeared to him to be a better course to postpone this Vote until they had more satisfactory details respecting it.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he wished to ask the Government whether it had been absolutely determined that these examinations should be of a competitive nature. It would be a great hardship to young men of inconsiderable fortune if after undergoing a year's special training at Sandhurst they were to be exposed to all the chances of a competitive examination. Things might surely be so managed that the number of admissions to Sandhurst should correspond with the number of commissions to be given. He thought the House hardly understood that the present scheme implied that a number of young men, educated at Sandhurst, would not only have to incur a considerable expense for that education, but would then receive commissions only if they succeeded in a competitive examination. If they should not succeed, it would be difficult for them to recover their position in society, or to repair the loss they would sustain by what would then have been to them a year's perfectly useless training. He believed the feeling of the House was truly expressed when the hon. Member for Liskeard said they were carrying their system of competition too far. Why could
 1439
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, that there were three parties who were affected by the Bill—namely, manufacturers, purchasers, and that important class who stood between both, namely, the wholesale vendor. When the subject was last before the House it was proposed that the name of the hon. Member for Honiton (Mr. Moffatt) should be added to the Select Committee, and he (Mr. Crawford) was desirous that that proposition should be carried, as it was important that the Interest of the wholesale vendors should be represented. The legal profession and the manufacturing interest were represented, but the claims of the wholesale houses to be represented appeared to have been altogether lost sight of in the composition of the Committee.
 MR. WALPOLE  said he thought that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for War had entirely misapprehended the whole argument of his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Selwyn). It was not the object of his hon. and learned Friend
 1471 1472
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he would suggest that, before the next stage of the Bill, full opportunity should be given to the House for the mature consideration of its provisions.
 MR. SALT  said, he desired to ask the object of a Vote of £ 3,000 for Hospitals?
 MR. SALT  said, he had seen a letter in  The Times
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he could not help thinking that his hon. Friend (Sir Morton Peto) did not understand the effect of the Vote asked for the Ordnance Survey. A survey on a large scale was being carried out for a certain portion of the country, and that survey had been in operation for a considerable time; but it did not embrace the bulk of England. It embraced Scotland and the six northern counties of England. If he understood it, the question to be considered when the Committee reported was, whether that large 25-inch survey was to extend to the whole of England; but the Vote now asked for was not to extend that survey to the whole of England. He could assure his hon. Friend that that was a question which he was quite as anxious as any hon. Member to hear fully discussed in the House. The sum asked for was only intended to carry on the work at present in progress, and not an extension of it, involving any question of principle or any matter that was new to the House.
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, that if any disgrace attached to the recent outbreak at the Royal Military Academy at Woolwich, it attached to the system under which that establishment was administered, and he could not but think that some of the officers as well as the young men were to blame.
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, he did not allude to the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, he thought one of the clearest evidences that the system which prevailed at Woolwich was indefensible was the fact that the young men were nominally punished, and not expelled. He quite approved, however, of their not being expelled, because the system was much to blame.
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, that one pervading fallacy throughout the discussion was that the young men who were to obtain commissions without purchase would be poor men, whereas poverty or eminent service was by no means the sole claim to these commissions. He feared, on the contrary, that the proposed system would have the effect of throwing the commissions into the hands of those who were possessed of broad acres. It was true that commissions would be given only to those who passed a competitive examination; but that examination was to be restricted to those who obtained nominations, by which means patronage would be greatly increased. He could only characterize the
 1477
 MR. DEEDES  said, that if they were to follow the noble Lord's advice, they should vote at once for the entire suppression of Sandhurst College. Since the discussion in the earlier part of the evening the question had entered upon a new phase. The hon. and learned Member for Cambridge had begun by limiting his proposals to the Universities of Oxford, Cambridge, and Dublin; but now it was urged that it should be open to all schools to qualify young men for competition for commissions. For his own part, he thought the principle of competition had been carried too far, and that no practical good flowed from it. If it were intended that young men should pass two or three years at Sandhurst, there might be objections; but he could not see what hardship there was in requiring of a candidate for a commission, who had re-
 1475
 MR. W. EWART  said, he had observed with pleasure that sums of £4,000 and £3,000 were asked to establish soldiers' reading-rooms and gymnasia. He trusted that the right hon. Gentleman would further extend the system of reading-rooms for soldiers. He also hoped that in addition to the employment and instruction of soldiers and their children in trades, he would cause inquiry to be made into the system and results of employing French soldiers in the cultivation of vegetable gardens, or other cultivation of the land.
 MR. MONSELL  said, there were a certain number of their constituents who were seeking for appointments, and who were just as much obliged to them for getting them nominations as places. The Commander in-Chief now had three nominations for competitive examinations, instead of one direct nomination to a commission.
 MR. MONSELL  said, according to the proposed system for Sandhurst, the patronage of the Commander-in-Chief instead of being diminished, would be increased. The professed object had been to prevent the Commander-in-Chief having an increased amount of patronage in consequence of the amalgamation of the Indian army and the army of this country. Every one who had studied the matter must be aware that the competitive system for the Artillery and Engineers had succeeded, and that there had been an enormous improvement in the young men who had entered those corps. If they wished to prevent the Commander-in-Chief having more patronage, why was that plan not adopted at Sandhurst? He regretted that there was no mode by which to obtain in Committee an expression of the opinion of the House upon the subject.
 MR. MONSELL  asked, whether the examination at Sandhurst was to be a competitive examination for young men entering or for young men leaving the college?
 COLONEL W. STUART  said, he wished to know whether an exchange would be allowed from a non-purchase into a purchase regiment?
 COLONEL W. STUART  said, he wished to know under whose control the Vote would be expended?
 COLONEL W. STUART  said, he wished to know if the new Indian regiments were to remain permanently non-purchase corps? He asked that question because the military train, which had been started on that footing only three years ago, had already, to some extent, become a purchase corps He begged also to ask what would be the expense of the education at Sandhurst to the sons of civilians?
 LIEUT.-COLONEL W. STUART  said, he could not admit that officers who left Sandhurst, although possessed of some military knowledge, were prepared immediately to take the command of a company. They would be expected by the colonels of their regiments to learn their drill in the ordinary way. If Oxford or Cambridge wanted to have military education exclusively in their own hands, it would be quite a different thing. They only asked for a fair trial of their system; and if it failed, another plan might be adopted. He did not know whether riding formed any part of the training at Sandhurst, but he appealed to anybody who had been at Oxford or Cambridge whether that art was not to be learnt there. They were told that the
 1438
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  remarked, that although a survey of Scotland had been ordered on the 25-inch scale, which would nave been a most costly affair, it had been actually commenced on the 1-inch scale. [ Cries of
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to call attention to the enormous outlay under that head. There was also a sum of £550,000 for hospitals. He would not grudge any amount that might be necessary for that purpose, but he could not but think the sum a large one.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he hoped that the Government would drop the item, and bring in a supplementary Estimate for the sum after the Report of the Select Committee had been delivered. It appeared that the Select Committee were of opinion that the Vote before the Committee would affect the question upon which the Committee upstairs were about to report, and it was therefore due to them to postpone the Vote. If they were obliged to go to a division, he should vote for the omission of the item, leaving it to the Government to bring it up afterwards as a supplementary question.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, that the Committee of Accounts which sat last year, reported that the audit of the income of the Revenue was very imperfect. He should be glad to learn how far the Treasury had been able to carry into effect the recommendations of that Committee.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he was willing to own that the limitation of the operation of the Act to two years would prove completely destructive to the efficiency of the schools, because commitments could not be Carried out during that period. An extension of the terms of the measure was therefore necessary, but as it was only an experiment, it had been deemed advisable to prolong it only for another year, when Parliament would be better able to judge whether it was desirable to continue it for a series of years or at once to make it permanent. Nine schools had been certified under the Act, in addition to numerous others under the previous Act. He understood that the whole provisions of the measure would be operative in respect of children committed to these schools during the whole period of their sentences.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he thought that if the Committee could not postpone the Vote, it must be passed or rejected altogether. He hoped the latter alternative would not be adopted. The Vote was merely for the salaries of the men engaged in the survey.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he approved the present system. It was a complete mistake to suppose that those who got commissions without purchase were treated with less respect than those who paid for them. He was sorry to hear that the time to be spent at Sandhurst was to be limited to one year. He did not believe that any officer, not even his noble and gallant Friend opposite (Lord Hotham), could qualify himself for the command of a company in so short a period. It was very desirable that a certain number of officers should be trained in a military college, so as to be fit to perform their duties as soon as they joined their regiments.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  observed, that nothing was more economical than taking means to preserve the health of the soldier. The improvements which had recently been effected tended very much to reduce the death-rate.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, that Ireland was surveyed on a 6-Inch scale. Had the House, twenty years ago, taken the advice of Sir Hussey Vivian and voted £1,000,000 for the purpose of a survey of the kingdom, millions of money since spent on the tithe map, the main drainage maps, and other independent surveys, would have been saved to the country.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, it was quite clear from the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for War, that progress had been made in the economical administration of the army. That being so, and as there would be another opportunity of discussing the question of education, he thought his hon. and learned Friend would exercise a wise discretion in not going to a division.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether the nine non-purchase regiments are included in the number, Infantry of the Line in India 54,837, and the three regiments of Cavalry in the number, Cavalry in India 7,062; and in whom is the patronage of these regiments to be vested? The reason for his putting the first question was, that the impression prevailed in India that they were paying for a larger number of men than they had. He wished also to hear whether there was any difficulty in obtaining field officers for those regiments. There was also another important question he wished to put—what amount of loss has been incurred by the War Department by fictitious or forged entries of work performed by contract, since the amalgamation of the War and Ordnance Departments; specially, what amount of loss has been incurred in the Dublin case of Hamilton Dinnellan; and whether any steps have been taken to prevent the like frauds in future? He believed that there was great laxity in watching over the performance of public contracts, and he feared that that might account for the loss of a good deal of public money. On this point very remarkable evidence had been given by the Director of Works to the Admiralty—a most able officer in his own department—who stated that he had been
 1450
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he wished the Secretary to the Admiralty to state the course intended to be pursued by the Board of Admiralty to carry out the recommendations of the Royal Commission appointed to inquire into the management of Greenwich Hospital.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, before the right hon. Gentleman left the chair he wished to call the attention of the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty to the statements which had appeared in the public newspapers respecting the return of the  Victoria Victoria 1453 Victoria, Victoria Victoria Victoria
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he could not understand what the sum of £30,000 was required for. Nothing could be more important than to preserve the health of the soldier; but it was not satisfactory merely to be told that so large a sum was to be applied in a general way to sanitary purposes without details.
 SIR MORTON PETO  observed, that a sum of £30,000 was asked for sanitary purposes, without any specific explanation being given of the sort of works to which it was to be applied.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he was glad he had put the question, because it had elicited a satisfactory answer.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he must object to the item of £71,000 for the "Survey of the United Kingdom and Topographical Department." A Committee had been sitting for the last three Sessions to consider questions connected with the survey. Their report would be issued very shortly, and the Government ought to wait till it was before the House, in order that the House might decide whether they were to have the 25-inch or the 1-inch scale. The question ought not to be re-opened year after year, but a definite decision ought to be come to on so important a subject. He begged to move the omission of the item.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he should divide the Committee against the Vote. The Report of the Select Committee would be ready in ten or twelve days.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he could assure the right hon. Baronet that a supplementary Vote would not be required under the circumstances to which he had just alluded. He would ask, what was the use of appointing the Committee if the House had already decided the question? The House ought to have an opportunity of deciding whether it would sanction the expenditure of £1,500,000 on what might be right or what might be wrong, or whether it would complete the plan on which it had already expended £1,250,000. The supporters of the Government had a right to expect that in matters of that kind there should be economy, and that the House should not be called on year after year to vote large sums without any definite plan.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he wished to call attention to an objection in the Bill. As it stood, managers of the schools would be obliged to pay for the maintenance of the children to the extent to which the Government were at present responsible. He also wished to call the attention of the Government to the working of the Reformatory system, and to the fact that Justices of Assize were in the habit of sending to reformatories, to be there maintained at a certain expense, children who could scarcely be regarded as criminal. If the Government would give encouragement to Ragged and Industrial Schools, they would help to save great numbers of children from criminal and vagrant habits, and lessen the necessity for reformatories. By limiting the operation of the Act to two years, the Government had quite emasculated the measure, and placed reformatories in a worse position than before. He hoped
 1488
 MR. CAVE  said, that the Limitation Clause was quite unnecessary for the protection of the Treasury. This was given by the Act itself; because the Secretary of State could either refuse to certify schools, and so limit the number; or he might discharge the children, or reduce the allowance. This Bill would be useless, because, as the commitments were at various dates, the schools would have to be kept up for an ever-lessening number of children, reduced at last to ones. The Colonial Office had allowed the Barbadoes Industrial. Schools Act (a similar measure) without the Limitation Clause, and he trusted, therefore, that the Government would consent to prolong the operation of the Act of 1861.
 SIR WILLIAM RUSSELL  said, that during the Indian mutiny the only complaint against many of the young officers was that they were too gallant, for their daring often led them to peril the lives of their men unnecessarily, and it would have been better if they had enjoyed a better introductory training.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I think the arrangement at Sandhurst very much answers the description which my hon. Friend has just given. He says that young men ought to be allowed to get their general education where they like. So they are. My hon. Friend denies this, because he says you profess at Sandhurst to give something like a general education. Now, the young men are to remain at Sandhurst a year. Does any one think that in a year they can get that general education which persons ought to have who fill the rank of an officer? At Sandhurst they are examined to ascertain whether at other places—at Universities, or schools, or at home—they have received that general education which is considered necessary as a foundation for a military life; and surely when you consider that what they afterwards require is peculiarly military instruction, that can be best acquired at a military college. How, for instance, can a young man at Cambridge or Oxford be expected to get that knowledge of military discipline and training which will be necessary when he joins his regiment? Hon. Members seem to confound general with military training. They say that a different system answered with regard to civil and scientific appointments. No doubt it does, and for this reason, that the knowledge requisite for the men who fill these appointments may be acquired anywhere. But what you want here is a knowledge of the military duties which a young man has to perform when he receives his commission, and I cannot understand how these duties and this knowledge are to be so well acquired as in an establishment of a purely military character where he can be practised in the duties he will afterwards have to discharge.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he thought that his right hon. Friend must have very strange notions as to what patronage was. He apprehended that his right hon. Friend had been in office to very little purpose if he were so perfectly ignorant of the nature of patronage. His right hon. Friend asserted that the plan proposed gave more patronage to the Commander-in-Chief what was the patronage which the Commander-in-Chief had before and which he now abandoned? It was the power of giving positively to A, B, and C commissions without purchase. It was a patronage of some value, be cause that which was granted was a positive gain to the individual and a certain possession. What was the present system? The Commander-in-Chief abandoned the power of positive appointment, and there was substituted for it the power of nominating young men to Sandhurst with the chance of their getting commissions by their own exertions, and having in the interval to pay £100 for maintenance. It was quite clear that, as the number of candidates was greater than the number of commissions, the extended patronage amounted to this—the nomination of a certain number of young men, of whom
 1466
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  reminded the right hon. Gentleman that the education at Sandhurst was purely military, and that, in order to obtain admission there, a young man must undergo a preliminary examination to prove that he possessed a sound general education. Therefore so far from superseding, the arrangement rather favoured University education, because a man who had gone through such a course would be more likely than another to get admission to Sandhurst.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether the attention of the Government has been drawn to a representation by the County of Limerick Grand Jury to the Judge of Assize at the late Spring Assizes with reference to the employment and organization of the police?
 SIR MOTTO FARQUHAR  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for India, In consequence of his having authorized the Government of India to reduce the youngest of the regiments of Cavalry lately formed in Bengal, what would be, in the event of such authority being acted upon, the position of the officers and men? An official statement had been made that the Government of Bengal, finding they had more cavalry regiments than they required, had determined to send home the Queen's Bays. The Home Government, it was stated, thereupon wrote to give the Indian Government authority, instead of sending home an old regiment, to reduce the youngest cavalry regiment which had been formed out of the local European cavalry regiments—namely, the 21st Hussars. He should not have directed the attention of the House to the subject, had not the House constituted itself a Court of Appeal upon questions affecting the late Indian Army. It would be in the recollection of hon. Members that in the Act of 1858, which transferred the Government of India from the East India Company to Her Majesty, it was provided by the 56th section that the pay, pensions, allowances, privileges and promotion in the Indian Army were to be in the same position as when the Indian Army was under the East India Company. Not satisfied even with that provision, the House manifested its determination to see that justice was done to the officers of the Indian Army by accepting a clause proposed by his right hon. Friend (Mr. Henley) in the Act of 1860, which resulted in the amalgamation of the Indian with the Royal Army, which repeated the guarantee given by the Act of 1858. Lord Derby stated at the time, when he was at the head of the Government, that the expectations of the officers of the Indian Army ought to be considered, and the right hon. Gentleman (Sir Charles Wood) assured the House that no material alteration would be made in the position of the officers of the Indian Army, and said, in 1860, he did not know how Government could give a better pledge of the sincerity of their intentions than by accepting gladly and willingly the clause of the right hon. Gentleman the member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley). Before the rebellion there were ten regi-
 1506 Calcutta Gazette
 MR. ADAMS  said, that the officers of the Indian Army were already in such an uncertain position, that any circumstance at all tending to increase that uncertainty could not fail to exercise a most injurious influence. He could mention cases in which officers had gone out to India, but finding their services were not required, had been obliged to remain in Calcutta doing nothing; and though some few might have obtained appointments, an
 1507
 MR. FEEELAND  in rising to call attention to the Papers presented in 1861,
 1512 1513 1514 Haiti Humayoun 1515 Morning Post, 1516 1517 1518
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that he need not follow his hon. and learned Friend through the history he had given of statute law consolidation for the last thirty years; but if he were to do so, he should not be at variance with him.
 1534 1535 1536
 MR. PEEL  said, he would admit that the Vote was a heavy burden on the resources of the country, but he wished to point out that the magnitude of the Vote was in part one of appearance only. The Committee should distinguish first of all between the foreign and colonial service, and the sea transit necessary for home service. A few years ago we paid £ 20,000 for the conveyance of the mails between Holyhead and Kingstown. This year the Estimates included £ 85,000 for that service—a payment obviously due not to merely postal requirements, but to considerations of national policy and the necessity of maintaining rapid communication between England and Ireland. This reduced the Vote from £ 915,000 to £ 820,000, and he was the more entitled to make such a deduction because these home mail-packet contracts involved a clear pecuniary loss, as the mails were carried without the imposition of any sea postage in return. Then even this £ 820,000 was not a total charge upon the revenue, because there was a set-off in the amount of sea postage received—namely, £ 470,000, which made the net loss arising from the carriage of those mails from £ 350,000 to £ 400,000. The hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter) had suggested various modes by which the loss on the Estimate might be reduced; for instance, that our colonies should be called to make contributions. He agreed with the suggestion, and the Estimates showed that it had not been neglected. An arrangement had been made with the Australian colonies, which were now required to contribute
 1551 1552 viâ
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he would admit that he had characterized the conduct of the cadets at Woolwich in the recent disturbances as disgraceful, but he must deny that he had attributed the outbreak to the effect of the principle of competition. What he had said was, that the young men who had taken part in that outbreak had no ideas of discipline and no  esprit de corps.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that nothing was easier than for an hon. Gentleman—who was disappointed at the smallness of the minority in which he found himself, and who was not likely to persuade the majority to agree with him—to state that there had been collusion between the different sides of the House, and to represent the decision as having been brought about by undue means, when it was the result of careful debate and the closest scrutiny. Since he had been a Member of that House he had hardly ever heard a question of secondary importance, such as the question of Sandhurst must after all be considered, receive a more careful investigation. He utterly denied that there was any collusion, concert, or understanding between the different sides of the House. He was in the recollection of the House when he said that when the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Selwyn) stated that he did not intend to divide the House he (Sir G. Lewis) told him that nothing that he had said precluded him from doing so; and, for himself, he had rather wished
 1556
 MR. PEEL  said, that these Estimates were prepared in the first instance by the respective revenue departments, and were afterwards examined by the Treasury. Under an Act passed last Session the expenditure under these Votes was classified, so that the hon. Gentleman would have an opportunity of examining and com-
 1557
 MR. COWPER  said, that in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to provide further accommodation for the Courts of Justice, he wished to premise that the measure was founded on the recommendations of the Commission which sat in 1860. He need not detain the House by dwelling on the insufficient accommodation at present provided for conducting legal proceedings in the Courts of the Metropolis. Any one who would look at Westminster Hall would see that the buildings adjacent were very unfit for the purposes for which they were originally intended. As the population, the wealth, and the commerce of the country increased, so had the accommodation diminished, and the buildings which formerly might have been adequate were now become inconvenient. The present Courts were built between the years 1820 and 1825, and though the architect, Sir John Soane, had displayed great ingenuity in putting to advantage the space at his disposal, and in placing each Court between the buttresses of Westminster Hall, yet there was not sufficient accommodation for the persons frequenting the spot. There was no waiting-room for the jury or witnesses, no library for the barristers, and, with the exception of two consultation-rooms, there was no place where the opposing parties could meet; and it occasionally happened that a barrister and solicitor were discussing their cause in one corner of a small room, and the adverse barrister and solicitor discussing the other side of the question in the same room. Then the single entrance was so narrow that the order and decorum of the Courts were often interfered with, and that tone of propriety which ought to prevail could not be maintained. The Probate Registries also, which were separate from the Court, were utterly insufficient for their present purposes, and the utmost inconvenience was often felt in consequence of the remoteness of the registry from the Courts. The buildings near Doctors' Commons oc-
 1558 1559 1560
 An hon. MEMBER  here moved that the House be counted; but notice being taken that there were forty Members present,
 MR. COWPER  said, he would not trouble the House with further details of a matter which seemed to be disagreeable to hon. Gentlemen opposite, and therefore it would be enough to state that the  maximum
 MR. LYGON  said, he rose to order. He wished to ask whether the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman did not fall within the scope of the standing order which required that any Motion for public aid or charge upon the people should be brought in in Committee of the Whole House.
 MR. PEEL  said, that in the month of July they would have to decide with respect to the Cape contract, but nothing had been yet done about it.
 MR. COWPER  said, the objection of the hon. Gentleman would not prevail, because the monies which would be expended under the Bill would be voted by the House, and the guarantee would be added to the Bill in Committee. As he had said, there might be thrown upon the public a charge equivalent to the amount received from fees, but the result of the employment of the two funds—the Surplus Interest Fund and the Suitors' Fee Fund—in building these courts would lead to a great saving in the public Exchequer; for by capitalizing the rent saved, calculating the value of the sites of certain buildings now used for offices and courts of justice, and taking into account other expenditure which would be dispensed with, a total of probably £ 500,000 would go to the credit of the State. If it were found possible to do all that was required for concentrating the courts and legal offices and providing accommodation for the transaction of legal business, for the sum which the present Bill intended to appropriate, £ 1,400,000, there would be no further charge thrown on the State. It might be, that when Parliament came to vote the necessary money, it would be thought desirable to add an additional sum to carry the principle of concentra-
 1562
 MR. LYGON  said, he was of opinion, notwithstanding the assertion of the right hon. Gentleman that the money belonged to nobody, that it belonged to the suitors in the Court of Chancery. Demands were being constantly made on these funds, and since the agitation upon this question of building law courts, fresh demands had been made on them last year. The Bill substantially laid upon the public funds a charge of £ 35,000, and therefore he trusted, when the clauses on the point were proposed, that the matter would be carefully considered in a fuller House than the present.
 MR. LYGON  said, he felt bound, after the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, from which it was evident that the right hon. Gentleman contemplated that some portion of the expense of the proposed buildings would fall on the public, again to appeal to the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Speaker) to know whether the First Commissioner of "Works had not failed to comply with the principle laid down in the Standing Order in not introducing his Bill in Committee of the whole House?
 MR. COWPER  said, that the Bill en-
 1565
 MR. LYGON  objected to the composition of the Committee.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he thought that commendation was due to the hon. Member for Montrose, and also to the Secretary of the Treasury, for his pledge to observe a rigid economy in future. The money that had been spent in contracts had not been wasted, because the Cunard ships had rendered great service in the Crimea, and recently in North America. Still he was glad to hear that all future contracts would be submitted to the revision of Parliament.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, it would be in the recollection of the House that during the last Session the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland on more than one occasion brought under their notice the case of certain people in Spain who had undergone persecution on account of their religious opinions. The right hon. Baronet stated the case with great ability, and he had no doubt that, although he had since accepted office, the right hon. Gentleman still remained true to his principles. But as the right hon. Gentleman could not from his official position put forward his views with the same freedom he had formerly done, he (Mr. Kinnaird) hoped he should be excused if he took up the question. The Spanish persecutions
 1537 1538 "I have not yet read the speech of Sir Robert Peel, but I have heard it notably praised. An extract from Lord John Russell's reply has been translated, but only by the reactionary and anti-Liberal section of the Spanish press. These periodicals have also published long leading articles commenting on the words of the Minister, which, unfortunately, appear to be favourable to the Ultramontane party." "The speech has been a fertile subject with our foes. I do not know what the spirit of it as a whole may have been, but I venture to believe that it was not that which the enemies of the Gospel and the friends of slavery of conscience would represent it. Be that as it may, the clergy have taken fresh life from it, for something, and that not a little, was expected from England. We, and with us all Spanish Protestants, looked to you, after God, for everything…. Spain has advanced towards religious liberty more rapidly than in many past years. The attitude of England has done much. Our brethren have taken courage. The Liberal press, in its narrow circle, has
 1539 "When a religion is persecuted, the foreign nations who profess it may intercede for their brethren; but this is all they can lawfully do, unless the persecution be carried to an intolerable excess. Then, indeed, it becomes a case of manifest tyranny, in which all nations are permitted to succour an unhappy people, A regard to their own safety may also authorize them to undertake the defence of the persecuted." 1540 1541
 MR. AYRTON  said, that the hon. and learned Member for Cambridge having communicated with him, he was enabled to state that his refusal to go to a division last night, so far from being a proof of collusion, was just the reverse. In considering how best the system of which he complained could be assaulted, the hon. and learned Gentleman had come to the decision that the real question at issue could not be properly raised in Committee or on the Report of Supply. The question being one of principle, the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Selwyn) thought it better to reserve his objection, and raise the point at issue under such circumstances as would give him the best chance of success.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he rejoiced to find that there was an hon. Member of that House who took so much interest in the well-being of the Turkish Empire as his hon. Friend; and certainly his hon. Friend was, perhaps, as well entitled as any hon. Member to be heard on a subject to which he had given much attention. He entirely agreed with him that the interests of the Turkish Empire were intimately connected with those of this country. The maintenance of Turkey as a powerful, prosperous, and independent empire was a wise policy—a policy which had ever been advocated by the noble Lord now at the head of Her Majesty's Government, and which ought always to be advocated by any future Government of England. He equally concurred in the view taken by his hon. Friend as to the necessity for a cordial understanding on that matter with France. If this country and France understood one another, little fear need be entertained with regard to the independence of the Turkish Empire. His hon. Friend had dwelt on the state of Turkish finance. No doubt the independence and prosperity of an empire mainly depended upon the condition of its finances, and not long ago the state of Turkish finance was by no means encouraging. During the reign of the late Sultan the confusion seemed to increase almost daily. The civil list was exceeded by a very large amount; there was an entire want of control over the different officers of State, misgovernment in the provinces, foreign war, internal insurrection; and, to embarrass the Government still more, the salaries of all the public servants were in arrear, and the pay of the troops, generally speaking, from one year to two years behindhand. Attempts were made to remedy these evils, but without much success. Budgets were published, but they did little to satisfy the public, and much reliance could not be placed upon them. The consequence was that the exchange upon this country fell to an unprecedented extent, and the credit of the Turkish Empire, which ought to stand as high as that of any other country in the world, was almost destroyed
 1520 1521 1522 1523 vice versa, 1524 1525 1526
 MR. LAYARD  said, it was a very important question. The hon. Member had a perfect right to bring it before the House, and he was obliged to him for the courteous way in which he had done so. He trusted that the House would feel grateful to the hon. Member for the vigilance which he exercised in all matters connected with our foreign relations; but he hoped the hon. Gentleman would not think it necessary that he should follow him in the somewhat discursive speech in which he had taken the House from the Alps to the furthest end of Sicily. The question was very fully discussed last year, and after the ample statement then made by so high an
 1511
 MR. LAYARD said , if there were no papers, he could not of course decline to produce them.
 MR. C. TURNER  remarked, that he was opposed to a reduction in the postal subsidies as he thought that, on the whole, the Government were no losers by the contracts; while the important benefits they conferred upon the commercial interests of this country were undeniable. There was a very large trade with South America, and being connected with the Pacific Mail Company, he could state that the Government received fully the amount of payment to that Company.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, it was impossible to state, in answer to the question of the hon. Gentleman, what were the intentions of the Government in regard to the Indian Navy. Instructions had been sent to the Government of India with reference to the Indian Navy, but they had not been complied with, the Indian Government having taken a different view of the matter. The Home Government would have to answer the letter received from the Indian Government; and if the hon. Gentleman would postpone the Motion he had placed on the paper for the correspondence until that letter was sent, there would be no objection, ultimately, to lay the whole correspondence on the table. That would be the only complete answer that could be given to the question of the hon. Gentleman.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he regretted as much as any one that there should be any uncertainty in the position of the officers. He hoped, however, to be permitted to observe, that the uncertainty arose in a great measure from the consideration which the Government had endeavoured to give to the position of the officers by creating favourable terms of retirement with a view to mitigate the hardship which, he readily admitted, had been incurred by some officers in consequence not of the amalgamation, but of the present reduction of the army in India. It would, however, have been quite as competent for the Court of Directors to have made the reduction as for Her Majesty's Government; and, undoubtedly, they would have done so, as nobody is prepared to maintain that the Native army should not be reduced. That reduction must inevitably entail some amount of hardship on the officers. "With regard to the particular question, he had stated on a former occasion under what cir-
 1508
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for, Foreign Affairs, Whether the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs will
 1509 Ami de la Religion 1510 Le Pays,
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  begged to be informed whether the fact was that there were no papers on the subject, or that the hon. Gentleman declined to produce them?
 MR. POTTER  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether his attention has been called to the practical increase of Duties on Imparts into the United States consequent upon such Duties being payable only in specie, the premium on such specie being likely to be excessive owing to the gradually increasing depreciation of American Paper Currency?
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the question of the Consolidation of the Statutes; and to ask Mr. Attorney General, Whether it is the intention of the Government to proceed with the Consolidation Bills prepared under the direction of the late Statute Law Commission? The present state of the question, and the little that remained to be done, would be best understood by the House if he gave a
 1527 1528 1529 1530 in extenso in extenso 1531 in extenso; 1532 "The time in which the whole work may be completed must depend on the number of hands employed; but assuming, as our experience enables us to do, that ten or twelve gentlemen may be constantly employed, we think it fair to anticipate that the whole work may be completed in about three years; and if at the end of that time we are able to present to your Majesty the whole of the Statutes coming under the class of General Laws, filling only about three volumes, but comprising all, or nearly all, the Statutes of a general nature now scattered in about forty volumes, we venture to think that our labours will not have been in vain."
 MR. WHALLEY  said, that notwithstanding what had fallen from the hon.
 1545 1546
 MR. FREELAND  said, that under the circumstances he had no objection to withdraw his Motion.
 MR. WHITE  said, he agreed with the position laid down by the hon. Member for Montrose. He believed when the time arrived for renewing the contracts a great reduction might be made in the present terms. He wished to draw the attention of the Secretary of the Treasury to the great inconvenience caused by the irregularity of the communication with China, caused by failures of the Peninsular and Oriental Company in performing its contract. Great complaints on that score were contained in a letter he had just received from a Gentleman in China who had formerly sat in that House.
 MR. BLAKE  said, he much regretted that the hon. Member for Perth had concluded with the Motion that the correspondence which had passed between the British and Spanish Governments upon the subject should be laid upon the table, because he anticipated that a difrent impression would then be given from that which was likely to be produced by the speeches of the hon. Member and the noble Lord at the head of the Government. There was no one in that House, perhaps, more competent than himself to speak from experience upon Spanish affairs. He had resided some time in the country. He had been over the whole Peninsula, and he had been there at a period when he could form a fair judgment of the toleration of the Spanish Government towards persons professing themselves Protestants. If he could grant the premisses of the hon. Member for Perth, he should assent to the conclusion. The hon. Member said that the persons to whom he alluded were guilty of nothing more than professing the religion which was professed by a majority of the people of this country. He had no doubt the hon. Member believed he was correct in that assertion; but he was disposed to think that when the correspondence appeared it would be seen that the Spanish Government asserted that these persons had undergone punishment to some extent for political offences, and not because, as alleged, they had happened to change their religious opinions. The occasion ought to be a very strong one to
 1543 The Blind Beggar of Bethnal Green. 1544 The Bible in Spain.
 MR. SPEAKER : As far as I understand the matter, the Bill as presented to the House proposes to deal with the monies accruing from funds in the Court of Chancery. If anything is contained in the Bill itself which imposes a charge on the public, the suggestion of the hon. Member that it should have originated in a Committee of the whole House is perfectly well founded. I do not, however, understand that the Bill contains a provision of the sort; but if it should prove otherwise, then its introduction, save in Committee of the whole House, would be out of order.
 MR. SPEAKER : This, being money of the Court of Chancery, does not come under the description of public money. But if there be a guarantee on the part of the public—as I understand will be the case—the clause embodying such guarantee will have to pass through a Committee of the Whole House.
 MR. HENNESSY  asked, whether the present measure was the same as that of last year?
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he could not help calling the attention of the Government to the inconvenient position in which the House was placed. A most important question had been raised, and two of Her Majesty's Ministers had spoken, but neither of them had accepted the challenge given them by the hon. Member for Waterford to produce the correspondence which had passed between the two Governments on this question. He joined his hon. Friend in the hope that those papers would be laid on the table. It was only fair that the case of the Spanish Government should be made known.
 MR. LOCKE  said, it was extremely gratifying to hear from his hon. and learned Friend that the work of consolidation was, in point of fact, all but completed. The largest result, in the opinion of his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Suffolk, that could possibly be expected was the reduction of the volumes of the statute law to four; and it appeared that owing to the labours already bestowed upon the work the number might be reduced to seven, as no less than ninety Bills were in existence, consolidating all the existing Acts upon as many different subject. It cer-
 1533 Vict.,
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, the hon. Gentleman talked of taking the sense of the House; but it would be difficult for the House to take the sense of the hon. Member, He had never seen more ignorance displayed upon any subject. The hon. Member talked of there being no trade between this country and South America. [MR. WILLIAMS: I never mentioned South America.] He would ask where were Buenos Ayres and Callao if not in South America? The trade between this country and South America amounted to five millions annually, and for the maintenance of that trade it was necessary to keep up an effective communication. The line between Australia and New Zealand was part of the main line from this country, and recent events had shown how important it was to have frequent means of communication. He thought the hon. Member for Montrose had done good service in calling attention to the subject, and he generally approved of the views of that hon. Member. It was, however, necessary that the merchants of this country should have as speedy means of communication by steamers and by telegraphs as could be obtained. He had himself yesterday received a telegram which left Suez the previous day, the arrival of which had prevented a serious loss. What was beneficial to individuals must be beneficial to the State; and therefore there ought to be the most complete system of communication, although the utmost economy consistent with efficiency should be observed.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, if those hon. Members who were not able to make up their minds on this subject would read the evidence of the Commissioners for concentrating the Courts, which he had read from beginning to end half a dozen times,
 1563
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that at present the Government had received no information that Congress had passed any Act declaring that Import Duties should be paid in specie. It might he so, but he was not aware that such was, the fact. Of course the effect in such case would be what the hon. Member had described.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  observed, that the measure was one of such importance as to render it desirable that hon. Members should have their attention closely directed to its provisions, even in its earliest stages. The history of many great works undertaken by the public, and especially of the magnificent building in which they 'were housed, had not been satisfactory. Parliament had commenced that work with a somewhat inadequate consideration of the cost, and the impression made upon the community by the quadrupling and quintupling of the original Estimates was a feeling that the next time the outside cost of the works ought to be stated in the first instance. The proposal of his right hon. Friend the First Commissioner of Works, however, distinctly showed that in the view of the Government the concentration of our law courts was a scheme of practical improvement, which was worthy of being prosecuted, even at the hazard of a considerable public charge. That being 80, they found at their disposal in the Court of Chancery funds which, on every ground of public and private justice, they deemed to be applicable to the attainment of that object, and on the soundness of that view he had no doubt hon. Members generally would concur. So far as he had been able to form a judgment on the matter, it was pretty clear that the funds to which he referred would supply the greater portion of the expense of the undertaking in question; but it was, at the same time, evident from the computation which had been made by the Commissioners, that there was a margin which might render it necessary, first of all, that the public credit, and secondly the public purse, should be called into requisition. The precise extent to which that might be the case he was unable to predict; but the worst aspect of the question had been laid before the House, and hon. Members would have the fullest opportunity of ex-
 1564
 MR. BAXTER  said, he rose to call attention to the increase of the Vote and to the possibility of gradually reducing it. As a foreign merchant engaged in commercial operations with all parts of the world, no one was more deeply interested that the ocean postal communications should be kept up with regularity and rapidity. He was quite prepared to ad-
 1547 1548 Steam Shipping Journal, 1549 1550
 MR. CONINGHAM  observed, that the hon. Member for Lambeth might be wrong in his geography, but he was right in his argument. He did not think that it was by subsidies we were likely to be best served, as they prevented competition.
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, he wished to explain that he intended to cast no imputation on the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Selwyn).
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, he had come down to the House on the previous day for the purpose of dividing with the hon. and learned Member for Cambridge, and he confessed that after the vote which they had come to on a previous occasion, he could not but regret that they had not an opportunity of again taking the sense of the House upon the question of restoring the Vote for the Sandhurst College. He did not know what mysterious influence had been at work to prevent a division. The benches on the Opposition side were thickly tenanted on Thursday evening, by those who, on a previous occasion, had been most strenuously opposed to the extension of Sandhurst College. It was true that on the Ministerial side there was a change of opinion on the part of some hon. Gentlemen who had voted against the Vote before they had heard the explanation of the Minister for War; but he had heard nothing to alter his opinion.
 1555 in esse in posse
 Mr. MASSEY  in the Chair.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he wished to ask upon what principle the Secretary of State proposed to act in reducing the youngest of the cavalry regiments of Bengal? He contended that the Indian regiments ought to take rank according to the dates at which they had been raised; whereas it was proposed to reduce the very regiments which had fought at Plassy and Buxar. Nothing could have been stronger than the assurances of the right hon. Gentleman that the pay and allowances of the officers of those regiments should remain exactly the same as hitherto, and yet those assurances were about to be violated. It would be found much better policy to retain old than to form new regiments.
 MR. VANSITTART  said, he regretted the hardship to which the officers of the reduced regiments would be subjected. They could never hope to command a troop in the regiments to which they might be temporarily attached, because such a proceeding would necessarily be very unjust to the officers of those regiments. Consequently, it appeared to him that they would lose one-half of their emoluments.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he was quite of opinion that every facility should be afforded for the conveyance of mails to all parts of the world, but it was unjustifiable that a tax of £ 450,000 should be levied on the people of this country for the proper affording of those facilities. The fact was, that they ought to follow the example of the American Government, which had accepted the offer of a private company to carry the mails for the amount of the postage. There were items in the Vote which were very objectionable. For instance, for the mails between Brazil and the West Indies, £ 30,000. [MR. PEEL: That pays itself.] He would then refer to the charge of £ 25,000 for conveyance of the mails between Panama and Callao. They had nothing to do with the west coast of America. He knew they had an interest in Panama, as a means of direct communication, but not in the intercourse between the two points. He also objected to the charge of £ 14,000 for the mails between
 1553
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he rose to ask the First Lord of the Treasury regarding certain events which have recently taken place in the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies. He had been informed that lately the Archbishop of Amalfi having died, his body was lying in state in the cathedral; and that, while the funeral service was being chanted by the clergy, a party of revolutionists rushed into the church with drawn daggers, and repeatedly stabbed the corpse of the prelate. He had also been informed that an expectation existed at Naples, that the tombs of the Royal Family in the church of St. Chiara, were about to be attacked and violated by the revolutionary party, and it was believed that the Piedmontese police were willing to connive at these outrages. He was also informed that her Royal Highness the Countess d'Aquila, sister of the Emperor of Brazil, and who had two children buried in that church, had called for the protection of the Brazilian Legation, and that its protection had been given to preserve the remains
 1504
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, that the Votes which had been agreed to, as well as others, ought to be investigated by the Committee on Public Accounts before they were submitted to the House. He wanted to know who was responsible for the preparation of these large items, and where the guarantee was that the ways and means would not be exceeded. Although he did not wish that the Committee should come into collision with the Executive, he should like to know where the real responsibility rested.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  remarked, that nothing could be more careless than some of the early contracts; but his right hon. Friend the Secretary to the Treasury seemed alive as to what should be done in future.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, that if it was true that the fees of the Court of Chancery went into the Exchequer, this Bill would in effect take money out of the national funds. Perhaps the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would give the House his opinion upon the subject. The fund it was proposed to employ had, he thought, accumulated mainly because of the protracted delays that used to take place in the Court of Chancery, leaving suitors to die before they could make out their claims.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Certain reductions having been made in the strength of the force of the Indian Navy since last Session of Parliament, what are the intentions of Government as to the future prospects and position of the Officers of that Service?
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that if the hon. Member who had just spoken felt so strongly on this subject, he wondered why he did not divide the House himself. If he did so, he should divide against him.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he wished to say one word in justice to the statement made by his hon. Friend the Member for Perth. He was much obliged to the hon. Member for the temperate manner in which he had brought forward the subject. He was sure that the reply of his noble Friend at the head of the Government must have convinced him that the Government were doing everything in their power, as they had done last year, to relieve if possible the sufferings of those poor men in Spain. He thought his hon. Friend the Member for Waterford was in error in supposing that those persons had been in any way implicated in political transactions. That had been distinctly denied. He did not wish to raise any question in respect to the policy pursued towards them, but he was in a position to state distinctly that those persons who were imprisoned in Malaga were in no way implicated in the transactions which occurred during the autumn of last year.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, in reply, that a representation had been made to the Judge of Assize by the Grand Jury of the county of Limerick at the late Spring Assizes in reference to the employment and organization of the Irish constabulary. The Grand Jury stated that the police force was assuming too military a character. The character of the force, however, was precisely the same that it was thirty-eight years ago. It had always been under the command of military men, at first under Colonel Kennedy, then under Colonel M'Gregor, and now under Colonel Brownrigg. It was always desirable that a force consisting of 12,500 men should be under the management and control of a person experienced in military matters; in fact, the City of Dublin police itself was under the command of a military man. Then objection was taken to arming the force with the rifle, and it was assumed that, because they were supplied with the same arm as the Line, they were assuming too military an appearance. But the constabulary had always been armed with the same weapon as the infantry, and being armed like the infantry with the rifle, it was necessary they should be instructed in the use of that weapon. Then the Grand Jury went on to say that there was a large reserve of police in Dublin, for the support of which all the counties were taxed. That, however, was not the ease, for the
 1503
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I can only say that Her Majesty's Government have received no information of any sort or kind with regard to the events that the hon. and learned Baronet supposes to have passed, or to be about to pass in Southern Italy. The hon. and learned Gentleman Speaks of the "Kingdom of the Two Sicilies," but that Kingdom has ceased to exist. I must say I; entertain some doubts as to the correctness of the information which he has received in regard to the events which he supposes to have taken place; and should he permit me to do so, I would advise him to receive with considerable caution any statements that may be made to him by persons in Italy with regard to supposed intentions attributed to those who are under the authority of the King of Italy.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I quite admit that my hon. Friend has performed a duty which nobody can complain of in bringing this matter under the consideration and attention of the House, And there can be no doubt the expression of opinion in the British House of Commons must have great weight with those in any country in Europe to whose conduct those observations apply. I am sorry to say, that I cannot, however, make any report to my hon. Friend and the House as to any satisfactory result which has yet followed the attempts or exertions of Her Majesty's Government to obtain the pardon and release of the persons to whom the observations of my hon. Friend apply. The difficulties, as he must be aware, are very great. The Spanish nation is a nation full of valiant, noble, chivalrous feelings and sentiments; but, unfortunately, in Spain the Catholic priesthood exercise a sway greater than that they possess in any other country; and however liberal—I believe I may fairly say so—the Catholic laity in most countries are, history tells us that wherever the Catholic priesthood gain the predominance the utmost amount of intolerance as invariably prevails. And although in countries where they form a minority they are constantly demanding not only toleration but equality, in countries where they are predominant neither equality nor toleration is allowed to exist. Well, Sir, the case in this instance bears upon law. It does not depend entirely upon the will and action of the Government, There are ancient laws of the most intolerant and persecuting kind which have been called into action by the ministers of the Christian religion, and that action has been the condemnation of these unhappy men to punishment which must, in its nature, be revolting to the minds of liberal persons. Efforts have been made to obtain from the Ministers of the Crown of
 1542
 MR. PEEL  replied, that the Return was not prepared in either of those ways. The figures were the same as in the annual finance accounts.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Rochdale (Mr. Cobden), who was to have resumed the debate that evening, was suffering so severely from cold and hoarseness that he felt unable to speak at that time; he hoped, however, to be able to do so during the course of the evening. Under these circumstances, he (Mr. Lindsay) would venture to offer a few remarks to the House. Objections had been taken to the form of the Motion. That was a course which was very frequently pursued. The fact was, that when a principle was not easily answered, it was common enough to take objection to the form in which the principle was put before the House. No doubt, if the hon. Member for Liverpool (Mr. Horsfall) had brought forward his Motion in any other form, similar objections would have been taken to it. There were many in the House who had long held the opinions expressed by the hon. Member for Liverpool (Mr. Horsfall). He (Mr. Lindsay) had long done so; and after the Declaration of Paris in reference to the rights of neutrals had been adopted, the international maritime law of the civilized world had, in his opinion, been placed in so very unsatisfactory a condition, that early in 1857 he brought the subject under the consideration of the House. At that time the
 1600 1601 Harvey Birch Nashville Harvey Birch 1602 1603
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he would address himself rather to the practical
 1604 1605 1606 1607 1608 1609 châteaux 1610 1611 1612
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  explained, that he did not object to abstract principles being laid down in negotiations between various Powers, but to abstract Resolutions being adopted in that House.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, the hon. Baronet was mistaken, and denied that he had expressed any such sentiments. So far from saying that is was lawful to confiscate the debts due to an alien enemy, he had referred to the universal practice in time of war, which was directly opposed to the confiscation of debts.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL : Sir, I entirely agree with the proposition of the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, that this debate has been conducted with great fairness and candour; and the speech of the hon. Gentleman is certainly no exception to the general tone of the debate. It has not only been conducted with fairness, but with ability. None, I think, can disguise from themselves the very great importance of the subject under discussion, or the fact that in any point of view it is attended with very serious difficulties. My hon. Friend the Member for Stamford (Sir S. Northcote) made an able speech, strongly in favour, as I thought, of the proposition of the hon. Member for Liverpool; but at the same time he showed his sense of the difficulties attendant on the subject when he stated, that notwithstanding all the arguments which he offered to the House, he not only was not able to bring his mind to vote in favour of the proposition, but that he could not accept the proposition himself till he had mastered the difficulties and foreseen the consequences which it involved. Now, after listening carefully to the whole of this debate, it appears to me that the arguments of the supporters of the Motion have been founded almost entirely on the Declaration of Paris. Two arguments are drawn from that Declaration. In the first place, it is said that there are no reasons in favour of the propositions there laid down which do not equally apply in favour of the present proposition of the hon. Member for Liverpool: and the other
 1670 1671 "No principle of national or municipal law is better settled, than that all contracts with an
 1672 "The main difficulty to be anticipated would be that the unrestrained communications of merchants would, no doubt, offer facilities to the enemy; but it would be easy to provide against that. The police would manage all that. Merchants are the least patriotic class of men in all the world, and will only regard their own interests." 1673 1674 1675 1676 1677 1678 Edinburgh Review 1679 1680 1681 ultima ratio "For the future security of commerce and friendship between the subjects of their said Ma-
 1682 1683
 MR. LEVESON GOWER  said, that he felt at a loss as to what was the real view of the hon. Baronet, and what was the course which, at the end of his speech, he seemed to wish Her Majesty's Government to take. He looked upon the question at issue as one of the utmost importance, and holding, as he did, opinions which might by many be regarded as extravagant with regard to the inhumanity of war, he had no hesitation in saying that he felt great sympathy in any proposal brought forward with the view of mitigating its horrors. The more, however, he had considered the Resolution of the hon. Member for Liverpool, the more difficult did he think the question raised by him of solution. In dealing with it he could assure the right hon. Baronet who had just
 1627 1628
 VISCOUNT ENFIELD  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether the provisions of the Union of the City Benefices Act passed in the Session of 1860, have yet been put into operation; and if not, to inquire the reasons for such delay.
 LORD HARRY VANE  hoped that the hon. Member for Liverpool would not press his Resolution to a division, although he quite agreed with him that the present state of the law on this subject was unsatisfactory; but he believed that that had arisen out of the very nature of the subject. At various times, from the treaty
 1635 1636
 MR. LAYARD  said, he owed an apology to his hon. Friend and the House for having on a previous occasion misinformed them on this subject. In fact, it was only at the close of last week that the Foreign Office received the information which he was now about to give. He had stated before, that two gentlemen—one the purser of the so-called Confederate States steamer  Sumter Sumter Ino 1596 Ino Ino Ino 1597
 MR. DISRAELI : Whatever may be the variety of opinion with regard to this Motion, to which the noble Lord alludes, there cannot be two opinions as to the importance of the subject. In my mind
 1700 nil 1701 1702 1703 1704 1705 1706
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he rose to inquire of Her Majesty's Government, Whether any change has taken place in the original decision (1842) of the Board of Inland Revenue that voluntary gratuities to Bankers' Clerks should not be assessed under the Income Tax Act, and the cause of that change, if any? From the time of the original imposition of the Income Tax the practice had been to levy no Income Tax on the Christmas money or gratuities presented to Bankers' Clerks by the customers of Bankers; but he was informed that it had been recently attempted to impose the Income Tax on those sources of income, and that the attempt was confined merely to banking-houses in Westminster. He therefore wished to know whether the Government have sanctioned this demand for Income Tax; and whether they can throw
 1598
 MR. BUXTON  shared the surprise and regret which had been expressed by the hon. Baronet the Member for Stamford (Sir S. Northcote) at the statement of the Lord Advocate as to the disregard of the rights of private property during war. He was under the impression that now-a-days it was an acknowledged rule among civilized nations, that, subject to the first and absolute necessity of maintaining the army and carrying out the operations of war, private properly should be respected. He did not see how any other practice could be reconciled with the well-known fact that indemnity was paid to private individuals whose property had been confiscated or destroyed by Denmark during the war upon that State. There could be no doubt that the great question was, how did the proposal before the House bear upon our naval supremacy? If it would promote that object, he could not conceive that any Englishman would oppose it. If it would detract from our power in that respect, then he was sure Members on all sides of the House would unite against it. Humane considerations were, no doubt, entitled to great weight, but in this instance they appeared to him quite incidental. He would waive the point of humanity, and consider the bearing of the proposition upon our naval supremacy.
 1637 1638
 MR. NEWDEGATE  rejoiced that his hon. Friend the Member for Liverpool (Mr. Horsfall) had brought the subject under the consideration of the House, for he (Mr. Newdegate) was one of those who felt in 1856 that Her Majesty's Government had sanctioned our representative at the Congress of Paris in greatly exceeding the functions which the country understood he was empowered to fulfil. What were the facts? Lord Clarendon was sent to France to conclude a treaty of peace, and Lord Clarendon undertook, on the part of his country, to settle the law which should regulate all future maritime warfare. Now, he (Mr. Newdegate) contended that that was a rash act on the part of Lord Clarendon as well as of the Government, and he believed that by that act our maritime supremacy has been most grievously imperilled. It was idle to judge of our position from our present predominance and the large navy which we maintained. We must consider the source from which that strength was derived, and the means as well as the motives which induced and enabled us to maintain that mighty navy. If the Government were to tell the people of this country that they maintained that navy merely to guard our country from
 1639 Trent 1640 1641 1642 1643
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the Lieutenant of the  Sumter Ville de Malaga Ino;
 COLONEL GREVILLE  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If
 1599
 MR. BENTINCK  said, if be did not follow his hon. Friend who had just sat down through the whole of his arguments, it was not from any want of respect for the opinions he had expressed. He should have occasion once or twice to advert to what had been said by hon. Gentlemen, but before doing so he must offer his sincere thanks to the hon. Member for Salford (Mr. Massey) for the tribute which, in the honesty of his character, he could not help paying to the memory of the navigation laws. Such was the hon. Gentleman's natural honesty that on this subject, in spite of himself, the truth slipped out. But then the hon. Gentleman said that those laws had been interred in the gratitude and respect of the country. He (Mr. Bentinck) could only say he did not see what gratitude there was on the part of a country which interred those laws which had been the source of her great maritime power. As to the respect of this country for those laws, he believed it existed except in a political portion of the community; and the best tribute he could pay to the late navigation laws was, that they were in direct contravention of the Treaty of Paris. Another point his hon. Friend had referred to deserved notice—the alleged abstinence of belligerents from interference with private property in war on land. He could not understand his hon. Friend's views, but he thought that if the hon. Gentleman would get rid of all prejudice created by the question before the House, he would see that so far from there being less spoliation on land than on sea in time of war, the greater amount took place on land. In fact, the principle of warfare had always been to cripple the enemy's resources in every possible manner, in order to compel him to make peace. He could not refrain from commenting on one remarkable observation that fell from the right hon. Secretary for War in the early stage of this debate. The right hon. Gentleman stated that Government was an instrument for plundering the people. That appeared a very remarkable statement to come from an important Member of a Government.
 1654 1655
 MR. BRIGHT :—Sir, there has probably never been a question brought before this House, at least during the time I have had a seat in it, more deserving of a very serious and dispassionate consideration than this. And I am bound to say that, looking at the debate last week, and at the debate to-night, there is no appearance of a partisan or of a party spirit in the discussion. Both sides of the House appear to think that the question is out of the region of party, and that it is to be discussed with reference to the interests of the country and to the interests of humanity at large. The Motion of the hon. Member for Liverpool is couched in very general terms. There is a certain degree of truth in what was said by a Member upon the Treasury bench the other night, that the object of the hon. Gentleman was to get a large acquiescence to it in the House. But I believe his principal object was to get into his net those Gentlemen upon the Treasury bench. It was not intended to have a large, vote in a hostile spirit to the Government; but the Motion was so drawn, in the hope that the Government might accept it; because it would not pledge the Government absolutely to any course, but would rather leave them open to take such proceedings as they might think advisable hereafter, whether with regard to any proposition they might might choose to make, or with regard to any proposition which any other nation might choose to make to them, upon this important question; and, of course, as the debate proceeded Government would be able to ascertain the state of the feeling of the House upon it. I am quite sure that was the object of my hon. Friend the Member for Rochdale (Mr. Cobden); and I have no doubt it was also the object of the hon. Member for Liverpool. Some Members of the House—the hon. Member for Honiton (Mr. B. Cochrane) the other night, and the hon. Member for West Norfolk (Mr. Bentinck) just now—have undertaken to blame the Government for the course they took in the year 1856. I am of opinion that the course they took was necessary to be taken, and that it was a wise and proper course in every respect. As soon as that course was taken, it was obvious that the debate in which we are now engaged must at some not distant period come on. Therefore I think the House are doing very wisely to discuss the subject now. The House well knows that from the period of the termination of the
 1657 1658 1659 "There exists no reason for exempting from capture at sea merchandise the property of belligerents conveyed in neutral vessels, which is not equally valid for exempting the same property when carried in belligerent ships, and the ships themselves. That in the event of a war between this country and any maritime power, the change in international maritime law effected by the resolutions of the Paris Congress, however wise and humane in itself, would deprive a large portion of our shipping of employment, and transfer our carrying trade to neutrals, thus inflicting a special and serious loss on the shipowner. That while the proposal which the petitioners advocate would, undoubtedly, deprive the navy of England of the power which it at present possesses to injure the carrying trade of an enemy, it would shield us from the infinitely greater injury which the fleets of any powerful maritime state would inflict on our mercantile marine in time of war." 1660 1661 1662 1663 "But unhappily this milder code has not yet been extended to maritime warfare. It is evident that, morally, no difference exists between the plunder of private goods in a house, and in a ship at sea. If the farmer and the tradesman has a right to possess his own in peace, even when the province he inhabits is occupied by a soldiery hostile to his Sovereign, it is surely reasonable that the same property, when in course of transport for sale, should be sacred from the enemy's cruisers." "No one can doubt that a country like England, whose commerce covers every sea, would be glad enough to find the whole world agreeing to respect private property on board ship. But it was not quite certain that some of her neighbours would acquiesce in a doctrine which would seem to give greater advantages to a nation whose supposed monopoly of commerce already excites the envy of the world." "It is now a question for the family of nations whether they will decide that a cargo of sugar on the Atlantic is as sacred as the same article when stored in the warehouses of a captured seaport." "Lord Palmerston, we believe, rightly characterized this crotchet when he said it would inflict a fatal blow on our naval power, and be an act of political suicide." "This most dangerous of the many dangerous suggestions which have been made from the same quarter." "The humanitarians have yet to speak—" 1664 "The humanitarians have yet to speak; but we shall be much surprised if the people of England will incline to throw away, for a false and maudlin sentiment, the power and safeguard of their country." "I cannot help hoping that these relaxations of former doctrines, which were established in the beginning of the war, practised during its continuance, and which have been since ratified by formal engagements, may perhaps be still further extended, and in the course of time the principles of war, which are applied to hostilities by land may be extended without exception to hostilities by sea, and that private property shall no longer be exposed to aggression on either side." 1665 "There might be treaties of such a nature as to their object and import as that war would necessarily put an end to them; but where treaties contemplated a permanent arrangement of territory, or other national rights, or in their terms were meant to provide for the event of an intervening war, it would be against every principle of just interpretation to hold them extinguished by war." "The general maxim [that war abrogates treaties between belligerents] must manifestly be subject to limitation in one case—namely, in the case of treaties which expressly provide for the contingency of the breaking-out of war between the contracting parties." 1666 1667 History of the Rise of the Dutch Republic 1668 1669
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, I own I feel—in common, I believe, with the rest of the House—that a very large portion of the argument of my hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General is conclusive on the topics which have been brought before us. But remember that the question is plainly divisible into two parts; and as to one of those parts, the reasoning of my hon. and learned Friend has so exhausted the subject that I do not pretend to touch upon it. I mean that portion of the subject which, ac-
 1684 in toto 1685 1686 1687 1688 1689
 MR. HORSFALL  made a few observations in reply, expressing himself satisfied with the course the discussion had taken. He would, in deference to the suggestions made from both sides of the House, withdraw the Motion.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he knew nothing of any decision having been taken in this matter, the application of which was confined to the limits of Westminster. He was informed that in 1842, before the Board of Inland Revenue existed, and when the duty of collecting the Income Tax belonged to the Board of Taxes, the question arose whether presents to Bankers' Clerks at Christmas and other seasons were liable to assessment for the Income Tax, and the opinion of the Board was that they were not liable to be taxed. In September last, however, the clerk of the Income Tax Commissioners of St. Martin's put, on the part of the Commissioners, a question, not precisely in the terms asked by the right hon. Gentleman, for the purpose of ascertaining whether these annual subscriptions or Christmas money given to Bankers' Clerks were liable to the Tax; and the Commissioners' clerk stated at the same time that the gratuities referred to were received by the bankers, brought to account by them, and distributed among the clerks according to their periods of service. He mentioned these details because this was a matter of construction and not of discretion, and in the construction of law much depended on the particular circumstances. The question was treated as a matter of business by the Board of Inland Revenue who referred it to their legal adviser, who reported that the sums in question appeared to come under the head of profits and gains arising and accruing from the employment of these persons as clerks, and were accordingly chargeable with duty. Consequently, the Board deemed it to be their business to charge the Income Tax on these gratuities. With regard to a matter of law, it was not for him to give any opinion; but his own decided impression was, if there existed error, it was in respect to the decision of the Board of Taxes in 1842.
 MR. MASSEY  said, the terms of the Resolution submitted by his hon. Friend the member for Liverpool had been very freely criticised. It had been described as vague, and not framed in such a manner as to guide the House to any practical conclusion. To this it was a sufficient answer that no difficulty had been found in singling out the particular point on which the hon. Member for Liverpool desired to obtain the opinion of the House. He admitted that the terms of the Motion were open to some criticism. They appeared to imply that the present state of international maritime law was ill-defined and unsatisfactory; whereas, in fact, the great leading points of international maritime law were extremely well defined and had been acted on by belligerent Powers for centuries. That the state of the law was unsatisfactory was another question; in that he agreed with his hon. Friend. But the question they had then to consider was, not whether the state of international law was satisfactory or not, but the terms of a Convention which had superseded that law and established provisions antagonistic to its cardinal points. Nothing was better established than that the practice of privateering in time of war was sanctioned by the law of nations; there was nothing more undisputed than that a neutral flag did not cover an enemy's goods; and that a neutrals goods were safe under a belligerent flag. These three propositions were included in the public law of Europe up to the Convention of Paris. That Convention did not abrogate the public law; it had no power to do so. But it was certainly true that in 1856 the States of Europe, with one exception, did accede to provisions of a very remarkable character. The Lord Advocate seemed to intimate that this was a matter of such high and transcendent policy that the House of Commons could hardly rise to the level of such a discussion. He must entirely dissent from that opinion, if such an opinion was intended to be conveyed. So far from agreeing with the Lord Advocate, he had always regretted that the articles of the Convention of Paris that had effected, or were to effect, such enormous changes in international law, were agreed to without the House of Commons having an opportunity of considering them. He did not blame any of the contracting Powers assembled at the Convention for this result; the nature of their communications excluded the House from any participation
 1645 1646 1647 1648 1649 1650 Annual Register 1651 1652 1653
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, he ventured to think he could bring under notice two or three points which had not yet been presented to the House. To the Motion itself the principal objection would probably be the inexpediency of adopting an abstract Resolution on a subject the House was not competent to deal with; but a much more practical sense had been given to it by the arguments of its supporters, whose object was to urge upon Ministers the expediency of communicating with foreign Powers for the purpose of bringing about the abolition of the right of maritime capture. The Declaration of Paris had been referred to; and it was argued by the supporters of the Resolution that it was impossible that the right of maritime capture could co-exist with the second article of that Declaration, under which a neutral flag protects the enemy's goods, without injuring the shipping and commerce of this country. The hon. Member for Liverpool said that was proved by experience, because, when there was an apprehension of war with France in 1859, certain merchants shipped their goods on inferior American bottoms at freights 50 per cent higher than those at which they could have been shipped on superior English vessels. Now, even if there had been no actual experience the other way, he (Sir Francis Goldsmid) would have suggested, that as there was no real foundation for the alarm of war, so there might have been no real foundation for the fear of injurious consequences to British commerce if war had unfortunately broken out, and that the facts were not sufficient to warrant the conclusion which had been
 1633 1634
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he was sorry he could not give any information as to what had been done under the Act, The Commission of Inquiry could only be issued by the Bishop of London or the Bishop of Winchester on their being satisfied that the union was desirable. He was not aware whether any sufficient case had come under their cognizance, and the Government had no power to interfere.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, the sentence in the case has not been commuted, but the execution of it has been respited wholly on the grounds of the alleged insanity of the prisoner. The facts are these:—Immediately after the trial the Judge wrote to me to say that he felt it his duty to take the first opportunity of bringing under my attention the peculiar circumstances of the case. He agreed with the verdict of the jury, because there was no evidence that at the time of the commission of the crime the prisoner was insane; but his conduct at the trial was of the most eccentric and extraordinary character; and it was the opinion of the medical officer of the prison, who was stated to be a man of great experience, that the prisoner was insane. This, as the learned Judge truly observes, is a circumstance of immense importance as to whether the sentence he had felt it his duty to pass should be carried into effect or not. Before I took any steps founded on that view I directed the Medical Inspector of Prisons to go to Newcastle, see the prisoner, and form his own opinion. This gentleman had several interviews with the prisoner, sometimes by himself, sometimes in conjunction with the Governor and Chaplain of the prison, and he reported his opinion to me in the most decided terms that the prisoner was insane; and in that opinion the authorities of the prison concurred. I therefore respited the execution of the sentence, and wrote to the visiting justices to request that they would take the necessary steps for having the prisoner committed to an asylum. I received an answer to that communication, and a certificate signed by two physicians in Newcastle, testifying in express terms to the insanity of the prisoner; so that there were altogether four medical men who concurred in that opinion. But the visiting justices declined to concur in the opinion; consequently the requirements of the law were not satisfied, which alone would authorize the Secretary of State to
 1594
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to inquire, Whether the man Clark, who has been sentenced to death for the murder of Mr. Frater, an Income Tax Collector at Newcastle, has been respited; and whether there is any reason for supposing that the unfortunate man has been and is undoubtedly insane?
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, it was the intention of the Government to bring in a Bill to consolidate and amend the Law, to which the recommendations in the Report referred.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he would not dispute the matter as to the fact, but such was certainly the impression the remarks of the learned Lord had made upon him. He rejoiced, however, that his misapprehension had elicited a distinct disavowal of so objectionable a doctrine. He would now, however, ask the House whether this question which they were discussing had been considered in its most important light. It had been spoken of as a question of humanity—as a question affecting the commerce of this country. But the root of the question was, how would it affect our maritime power—the strength of our navy in time of war.
 1614 inscription maritime Trent 1615 1616 inscription maritime 1617 1618 "I cannot help hoping that these relaxations of former doctrines, established in the beginning of the war, practised during its continuance, and ratified by further engagements, may be still further extended; and that in the course of time the same rules of war which now apply to hostilities by land may be extended to hostilities by sea, and that private property may be respected on either side." 1619 Commentaries "As a general rule, the obligations of treaties are dissipated by hostilities; but if a treaty contains any stipulations which contemplate a state of future war and make provision for such an exigency, those stipulations preserve their force and obligation when the rupture takes place. The obligation of keeping faith is so far from ceasing in time of war, that its efficacy becomes increased, from the increased necessity for it." 1620 1621 1622 1623 1624 1625 1626
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, then he did not understand what the learned Lord meant when he said that these matters should be left to be settled by the decision of courts of law as they arose. But still further, there were points in the learned Lord's argument which seemed directly against the principle of entering into such declarations. For instance, the learned Lord reversed a line of Milton's about "retracting in times of ease vows made in pain." He (Sir Stafford North-
 1613
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that he agreed in the practical conclusion to which the learned Lord who had just addressed the House wished to lead them with regard to the Motion before them. He considered that the adoption of the Resolution proposed by the Mover would lead to very undesirable and embarrassing results, and he therefore earnestly hoped that the hon. Member (Mr. Horsfall) would not press it to a division. But he confessed he should have been able to come to this conclusion with greater satisfaction, and would have been better content to leave this important question in the hands of the Government, if he could think the Government knew its own mind on the matter, and if the views of the learned Lord Advocate had been expressed in a somewhat different manner. He thought the learned Lord had entirely failed to grapple with the real question at issue, and it was with the greatest regret that he had heard some of the doctrines incidentally laid down by the learned Lord. He was, for instance, astonished to hear the learned Lord, who was a Member of the Government which adopted the Declaration of Paris, objecting to lay down abstract principles with regard to what should be done in time of war. Why, what was the Declaration of Paris itself?
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether in the Return No. 402 of Session 1861, relating to Public Income and Expenditure, the Public Expenditure in each year is stated at the amount estimated immediately after the close of the year, or at the amount ascertained by actual audited accounts?
 MR. CAVE , as the representative of a mercantile port, begged to tender his hon. Friend the Member for Liverpool his acknowledgments for the ability with which he had brought this important question before the House, and to express his concurrence in the views he had so well explained. If he had felt any doubts as to the correctness of those views and the justice of the case, those doubts would have been removed by the replies of their opponents. They had in their speeches relied chiefly upon the  argumentum ad hominem 1629 pro tanto —"more inconstant than the southern gale, Commerce on other shores display her sail." cadit quœstio; 1630 1631 reductio ad absurdum "All damage done to the enemy unnecessarily, every act of hostility which does not tend to pro-
 1632
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON :—It is generally admitted that nothing can be more inconvenient than the proposal to, or the adoption by, this House of a general abstract Resolution; and I think the Resolution of the hon. Member and the debate which has followed amply illustrate the truth of that position. The hon. Member has proposed a Resolution excessively vague in its terms, which points to no specific object, and the meaning of which can only be collected from the speeches of those who have supported it in the course of the debate. If such a Resolution were passed, and the Government of the day were called upon to act upon it, they could only guess as to what course they would have to pursue; and they would have to do that by considering the arguments of the hon. Gentlemen who have taken part in the debate. Now, that would in general be a difficult matter; but I confess that in the present case, as the question has been treated, it would puzzle the most sagacious Government to know what course to pursue; because one half of those who have supported the Resolution, and the hon. Gentleman himself who moved it, have for their object to exempt private property at sea from capture; but the other half who concur in it have another object—to reverse the Declaration of Paris. Those are two objects totally different, indeed diametrically opposite, and between which the Government, if called upon to act, as they would be by the concluding passage of the Resolution, would be utterly at a loss as to which of the two courses the House of Commons wished them to adopt. I think that is of itself a sufficient reason why this Resolution should not be affirm-
 1690 1691 1692 f 1693 f "It is deplorable to consider the inevitable consequences of this immense concentration of foreign troops in Hesse, of which your Lordship no doubt is already informed; but the sufferings of the poor inhabitants is likely to exceed everything which can be imagined. Their provisions for the winter already setting in, have been consumed by the troops quartered on them. Sickness and disease are beginning to appear, and I believe, although the report is endeavoured to be put down, that the cholera has appeared in several places." "The country (that is Hesse) continues in a deplorable condition. There is no commerce of any kind, and consequently no money. I am assured that in that part of it occupied in the beginning of the winter by the Federal and Prussian troops, everything is destroyed, and that there are some thousands of persons in a complete state of destitution. Not only were their cattle and stores all consumed, but their horses even taken, so that the ground cannot be tilled, and in the interior of the houses and cottages the furniture of all sorts was used for firewood. This account was given to me by a person who is well inclined towards the Elector and his Government, and who added that it would require at least ten years to restore that part of the electorate to its former condition." 1694 1695 Trent 1696 1697 1698 1699
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the answer to his hon. Friend's question was this—that Woolwich was an academy for the education of officers of the Engineers and Artillery, and it was thought desirable to obtain greater securities with respect to the scientific attainments and intellectual ability of the candidates for those two services, than of candidates for regiments of the Line.
 MR. STANHOPE  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council of Education, If he has endeavoured to ascertain from those Inspectors of Schools who reported of the Schools inspected in 1860 that the following subjects were taught excellently, well, or fairly:—Reading in 89 per cent. writing in 90 per cent. arithmetic in 83 per cent; whether they applied that test to the merits of the Teachers or of the Scholars; and whether, if they applied it to the Scholars, they applied it to the whole of the School or only to the upper classes?
 LORD HENRY LENNOX :  * 1751 "Now, although the Treasury should have the general superintendence of the financial concerns of the public, there does not seem any convenience, but the contrary, in an officer of the Treasury having the regulation of the arrangement and distribution of the rations to troops. That is business which does not properly belong to a de-
 1752 Hansard "I think the department of the Treasury, which is a department of check, but which is not an administrative department, should not be intrusted with a duty of that kind." "If, therefore, you have him doing the duties of both departments, he ceases to have any check or control." "If, therefore, you combine the two things, you do away with the whole System of economical control."—[3  Mansard, "There is a radical distinction between controlling the business of Government and actually doing it. The same person or body may be able to control everything, but cannot possibly do everything; and, in many cases, its control over everything will be more perfect the less it personally attempts to do." "But above all, by this change [that is, removal
 1753 1754 quasi 1755 "Turn," said the right hon. Baronet, "to Mr. Pepys' memoirs, in which book it was stated, that James II., then Duke of York, on his appointment to the office of Lord High Admiral, found himself compelled to dismiss these subordinate boards, and with the assistance of four commissioners, united the whole control of the civil administration of the Wavy in his own hands. The effects of this alteration were almost immediately visible; it was the first dawning of that brighter era which was followed by the splendour which had since encompassed the navy of Great Britain, and had at length raised it to that pinnacle of glory, where it had since remained the envy and wonder of surrounding nations."—[3  Hansard, 1756 1757 ipse dixit 1758 ex officio, 1759 s d 1760 1761 1762 1763 1764 1765 "An Act to prevent the destruction of turnpikes and other works erected by order of Parliament; to frame the table of fees to be taken by the clerks of justices of the peace; for empowering a certain number of Trustees of the British Museum to do certain acts; and to prevent certain persons driving certain carriages, from riding upon said carriages." 1766 primâ facie "Such a Board of Trustees, to any one who considers the individuals who compose it, with reference to their rank, intelligence, and ability, would give assurance rather than promise of the most unexceptionable, and, indeed, wisest administration in every department. High attainments in literature and in science, great knowledge and experience of the world and its affairs, and practised habits of business, distinguish many of them in an eminent degree; and it would be unjust either to deny the interest which all of them feel in the prosperity of the Institution, or refrain from acknowledging the devoted services which some of them have rendered in its administration. But, on the other band, absorbing public cares, professional avocations, and the pursuits of private life, must in many instances, prevent those individuals whose assistance might have been best relied on, from giving anything like continued attention to the affairs of the Institution; and, what is perhaps of more importance, the large number of the Board, by dividing, or rather extinguishing, individual duty or responsibility, has
 1767 "It is not surprising that, in such circumstances, the Standing Committee should have been confounded with the general Board, without any practical distinction between their functions, and that the actual management of the Museum should have devolved upon a fluctuating Board, having no special charge, nor direct personal responsibility; and all this in constant disregard of that precaution which the Trustees very wisely established against themselves, by throwing the ordinary business of the Museum upon a portion of their number, specially appointed and accepting." "To return to the Standing Committee, or to the Board of Trustees—for these may be spoken of together—the course of conducting business is, unfortunately, calculated not to correct, but to aggravate, the inconvenience," "On the whole, the conclusion has been forced upon us, that the mode in which the Trustees have exercised their functions of government in the Museum has not been satisfactory; and that the inconveniences arising from so great a number of Trustees, and from the fluctuating nature of the Board, have been increased by the neglect of such precautions as, with reference to the accustomed modes of transacting business, we should expect to find strictly in observance. However admirably qualified the Trustees may be individually for the transaction of business, it is impossible to expect satisfaction in the conduct of their affairs, where they act not by a selected number, but at meetings—which they are left to attend as they please, and as leisure and inclination serve—to which they are called by summons announcing the time of meeting merely, but giving no notice of the business—at which business of great importance to departments is conducted without direct and personal intercourse with the officers at the heads of the departments, and in a manner so cumbrous and fatiguing as to be hostile alike to good decision and despatch." "With respect to the executive management, your Commissioners are unanimously of opinion that a change should be adopted, involving the abolition of the offices of principal librarian and of Secretary as they now exist, and the establishment of a responsible Executive Council." 1768 "You might offer for study an admirable and complete collection; but all these elements are scattered or confused …. arranged without chronological order …. without any logical arrangement; and all this because the  locale "Whence comes it that with a nation the most gifted with common sense and love of order, so much reckless confusion should prevail, and, as it appears, prevail in this department of art and science alone?" 1769 "The Trustees should merely have the power of approving or disapproving in particular cases; that they should exercise a certain general control as a Board of Visitors." "From this spring those eccentric decisions, these daily contradictions, these questions settled, and unsettled, and this absence of progress inevitable, which all the world (except a few of the Trustees) knows to be the true history of your Board of Trustees. If I were able to say all that has been confided to me, and which, indeed, public rumour has already revealed, it would be easy to prove that this system of administration is a complete obstacle to all improvements." 1770 "I think, in principle, such a Board as the Trustees is wrong, although much may be said in its favour; and I think that the principle is so essentially wrong, that public opinion must ultimately come to the conclusion that it is wrong and not right. "In the British Museum the vices of the system are fully exemplified, more especially at the present time, when certain Trustees are supposed to represent the various antagonistic interests of the Antiquities, the Library, and the Natural History. I always thought highly of Panizzi, but with curtailed power and responsibility it would be impossible for him properly to manage such a vast institution. The result of this division of authority and want of method is a constant disagreement and rivalry between the different departments, arising from some real or presumed sacrifice of one to the other." "I do not object to a Board of Trustees, if you like to call them so, to see that certain bequeathed collections are properly taken care of. I see no objection to a Board of Control, but having no authority in the actual administration." 1771 1772 "It was his duty to collect the suggestions that were made in that House when the Estimate was brought forward, and to lay that suggestion before the Trustees." 1773 ex-officio ex-officio ex-officio 1774 "Do you think that Trustees who represent families should interfere in the general arrangement of the Museum?" "I have a very strong opinion on the subject. It appears to me, that when a testator appoints a Trustee to look after his collection, it is his intention that that collection should be devoted to the purposes for which he bequeathed it, and that it should be properly taken care of. To carrying out these intentions alone, I should confine the duties of a family Trustee. He should visit, at certain periods, the particular collection given by his ancestor or person he represents, to see that the wishes are carried out, and nothing else." 1775 ci-devant 1776 ex-officio s d d d d s d s d s d d 1777 s s dilettante
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  in reply said, he wished to express his gratitude for the kind appreciation which had been shown of his motives in bringing the subject forward. He should of course accede to the request made to him not to divide the House, as the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer opened up a vista of promise, and he should be content to leave the question there. There was, however, one misapprehension of the Chancellor of the Exchequer's, which he wished to correct. The right hon. Gentleman understood him to say that the Estimates for the British Museum had gone on increasing every year, and had thought that he referred to the last two years. He had not intended to say that during those years the Vote had increased, but he had desired to convey that the votes had gone on increasing for a long series of years until they had reached £90,000. The Chancellor of the Exchequer said he had not made out any case of mismanagement. He had certainly refrained from wearying the House with details; but he had given the right hon. Gentleman the report of one Committee, the evidence of the servants of the Museum, and that of a distinguished French sculptor who had written to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, twelve or fourteen months ago, a
 1802
 MR. COWPER  said, he rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to provide for the Embankment of the Thames. One of the most urgent wants of the metropolis was the want of a free passage along the great thoroughfare which united the east and west of London. Along that important line of communication there was such a constant flux and reflux of traffic between the City and the West End that at certain hours it was almost impassable. Ludgate Hill, Fleet Street, and the Strand did not serve the purpose for which they were intended, whilst the great value of the property in those streets rendered it impracticable to widen them. With the construction of another thoroughfare from east to west it was proposed to combine the laying down of the low-level sewer, so as to obviate the necessity of raising the pavement of Fleet Street and the Strand and endangering the houses by loosening their foundations. A third object might be attained at the same time with the two he had mentioned—the improvement of the navigation of the River Thames; and a fourth advantage would be the embellishment of the shores of the river and the formation of a handsome and healthful promenade for the public. One might have expected that London would have taken a pride in the river which formed one of its noblest features, and to which it owed in a great measure its prosperity
 1820 1821 1822 desideratum, 1823 1824 "For leave to bring in a Bill for embanking the north side of the river Thames from Westminster Bridge, and for making new streets in and near thereto, and from Blackfriars Bridge to the Mansion House."
 MR. COWPER  said, that the view he took of the proposition in the Bill was that it did not impose any charge upon the public in regard to rates or duties, and consequently he thought he should be departing from all precedent if he had asked to introduce the Bill in Committee. No doubt it did appropriate rates and duties already granted, but he had never heard that the mere appropriation of a charge already created ought to be introduced in a Committee of the whole House. As to the Bill for making a road through Kensington Gardens, if it had been carried into effect it would have indirectly imposed a charge upon the public. As to that part of the Bill which sought to amend the Coal and Wine Duties Act, his proposal was that, whereas at present the Bank of England was only required to keep one account, it should in future be required to keep two accounts of the fund—one a cash account, and the other a stock account.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he was not disposed to quarrel with the statement of the hon. and learned Member as to the present constitution of the Bench. The hon. and learned Member, of course, did not mean to insinuate that the benchers did not in the administration of the funds act for the real benefit of the Inns. [Sir GEORGE BOWYER: Hear.] In that respect the conduct of the authorities in question had been beyond reproach. Un-
 1830
 SIB ROBERT PEEL  said, that he then rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to render putative fathers of bastard children in Ireland liable for their maintenance. Last year the Committee on the Poor Law recommended that some measure of the kind should be passed for Ireland, as these children were now maintained at the expense of the poor rates. The Committee recommended that the board of guardians should sue putative fathers for the recovery of the money expended in the maintenance of the children. It was, however, the opinion of the Poor Law Commissioners that it would be better to assimilate the law of the two countries, instead of reverting to a law which had been abandoned in England after ten years' experience.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE , in rising to move for leave to bring in a Bill to make further provision for the education of people in Scotland said, that at that late hour (twenty minutes past twelve o'clock) he would confine himself to a brief statement of the general principles of the measure. There had long been a feeling in the North that the Privy Council system, however necessary for England, was in many respects unsuitable for Scotland. The measure
 1832 maximum 1833
 MAJOR HAMILTON  said, he wished to inquire if the Commissioners were to determine whether the schools In a particular district were too many or too few; and whether, where there were two schools, they would have power to say that one of them would be the parochial school?
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  replied that there would be a provision in the Bill which would regulate that matter.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that it was a mistake to suppose that the money was to be entirely at the disposal of the Commission.
 MR. KINNAIRD  thanked the President of the Board of Works for the very excellent metropolitan improvement which he had proposed.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  asked, whether the principles of the Revised English Code would be applied to the schools In Scotland; and whether Episcopalian and Roman Catholic schools would be allowed to draw the Government money under the existing system?
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, it was impossible to estimate the effect of words which were introduced for the first time into the Motion as it was put into the Speaker's hands. As he caught them, they referred to the appropriation of public money, and it might be that the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets was right. He should have the greatest possible pleasure in supporting the Bill, because, as he understood, the creation and management of that great metropolitan improvement were to be handed over to the Metropolitan Board of Works. At present he reserved his opinion on the details; but, as he had caught an allusion to some suitable public buildings which were to recreate the eyes of the Londoners, he
 1826
 MR. AYRTON  said, he rose on a point of order. The Bill which it was proposed to introduce was for the regulation or appropriation of a public tax levied under the Act of the last Session, and it was unusual to introduce such a Bill except in a Committee of the whole House. The right hon. Gentleman seemed to have forgotten the precedent to which he lately submitted when he proposed to appropriate a tax for the purpose of making a road in Kensington Gardens. That road was to have been made with funds taken from the Coal and Wine Duties, and he (Mr. Ayrton) had pointed out to the right hon. Gentleman that it ought to be introduced
 1825
 MR. DUNLOP  said, he had no doubt that the Bill would afford the people of Scotland great satisfaction, because it would put an end to the denominational system, which they felt was inapplicable to their country. He did not think that any inquiry into the general education of Scotland was necessary—all that was wanted was an investigation into mere matters of local detail. He thought the proposed Commissioners were well selected and trusted they would form a body well qualified for the duties they would have to perform.
 MR. LAYARD  said, the question was one of so much importance that he regretted to hear it discussed in so thin a House. Few hon. Members were probably aware of the very large amount of money belonging to Englishmen sunk in China. The greatest interest would be felt in China in the result of this debate, and the news of the course which the Government might take would be anxiously expected at the treaty ports in that country. England had spent a great amount of life and treasure in the establishment of an enormous trade in China. It was not for him to discuss now the policy which led them there. They were there; and, being there, the Government were bound to protect the lives and property of Bri-
 1807 1808 Wesleyan Messenger 1809 1810 "Words cannot convey any idea of the utter ruin and desolation which mark the line of Taeping march from Nankin to Soochow. The country around the last unfortunate city will soon be covered with jungle, while the vast suburbs, once the wonder of even foreigners, are utterly destroyed; a few miserable beings are met with outside the gates selling bean curd and herbs, but with these exceptions none of the original inhabitants are to be found, and we actually flushed teal in the city moat, where only a year ago it was barely possible to find a passage, from the immense number of boats actively engaged in commerce and traffic. The interior of the city is equally desolate; the whole of the house-fronts have been torn down, and the numerous watercourses are filled with broken furniture, rotten boats, and ruin. The same may he said of all cities on the canal; and as for the villages and places unprotected by walls, they have been burnt so effectually and carefully that nothing but the blackened walls remain." "The city of Taeping is obliterated. For some time I walked by a high bank without knowing that it was the remains of the city wail. The stone facing of the wall, and the bricks of most of the houses within the city, have been used for the construction of walled camps outside." "A new crucifix was leaning against the wall; there was an evident attempt to inspire awe and respect on all beholders, but the universal coolie look, the want of intelligence even in the higher ranks, and the utter inability of the highest to write more than (that with great difficulty) their names, must have utterly failed to excite any feeling, unless fear, and, as it did with us, disgust. We were impressed with the energy with which a portion of the wall was being repaired, and the manner in which they had staked the ground surrounding the wall; but, the long walk through the burnt and plundered suburbs; the fearful dogs and gaunt cats, stalking about, frightened from the bodies,
 1811 1812 "Since the capture of Ningpo by these: extraordinary men, the first time I had been brought into personal contact with them, I have to confess that my views, hitherto ever oscillating for and against them, according to the varying rumours which have reached me from time to time, are now assuming a most unfavourable character. If the men now at Ningpo are a fair specimen of what they are elsewhere, the whole movement I must regard as one of the most hopeless imaginable for all purposes but the work of desolation and destruction. I have already had interviews with representatives of all classes among them; and, had I not heard them and seen them myself, I could hardly have been persuaded by others that such bad, unprincipled, and uncivilized beings could be found among the generally quiet and naturally respectable Chinese.' coup d'é tat 1813 1814 1815
 MR. LAYARD  said, that the papers were in the hands of the printers, and that he hoped they would be laid before the House by the end of next week or the beginning of the following week.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I agree with the hon. Baronet in thinking that my noble Friend will do wisely not to press the House to come to a decision on the Resolution which he has proposed, because, when you ask the House to come to a Resolution, you should always consider the circumstances under which that request is made; and considering the particular hour at which we should be called on to decide (half-past seven o'clock), I think he might obtain a result that would lead to an impression that there was not that sympathy with the general views expressed by my noble Friend in support of his Motion which I believe to exist in the House, and which I believe is largely shared by the country. My noble Friend has brought forward the subject in a speech of remarkable ability. He spoke for a considerable time, and always interested us, while he really grappled with all the points of the considerable question with which he had to deal. And, Sir, I find no fault with the Resolution which he proposed, because it is a Resolution which affirms, generally speaking, a principle which I think the House must ultimately adopt, and which, at the same time, pledges the Government in no manner as regards the details in an inconvenient form. But after the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and after the Amendment proposed by the Minister, it really would be at the present moment highly imprudent on my noble Friend to run the risk of a division in which it is possible, perhaps probable, be might have a majority; but if he were thrown into a minority, it would undoubtedly create in the country a false impression. When an independent Member brings forward a Motion, and the Minister meets it with the Previous Question, he ought to be satisfied. It is a concession of the justice and general truth of his views and the accuracy of his statements; and I do not think that as to the general result there can be two opinions. If public money is granted by the votes of this House, there ought to be a direct responsibility as to the manner in which that money is expended. That is, in fact, the
 1796 1797 dilettante 1798 1799 1800 1801
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he was not quite clear as to what the papers were to which his hon. Friend referred, but he was not aware of there being any objection to their production.
 MR. G. W. HOPE  said, he entertained great doubts whether the mode in which the learned Lord Advocate proposed to proceed would be sanctioned by that House. He understood the Commissioners were to inquire into all matters connected
 1834
 MR. J. A. TURNER  said, he rose to second the Motion. He could confirm the statement that the trade of China, and particularly of Shanghai, was of the greatest importance to the people residing in that part of the country which he represented, and he felt satisfied that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would feel the loss in the revenue of this country if that trade was interrupted by the Taepings. But he also hoped that the Motion would prove to be unnecessary, as he felt satisfied that Her Majesty's Government had already turned their attention to this subject. They must have seen that the proceedings of the Taepings required watching. He believed that the volunteers of Shanghai, gallant as they were—and they were men possessing a gallant spirit of resistance—would be overpowered by numbers. The merchants at Shanghai had immense property there, and that must be protected. But not the property alone, but the valuable lives of the merchants and their families who were settled at that port for the purpose of carrying on a peaceful commerce required protection. This country had nothing to do with the civil war between the Chinese and the Taepings or rebels, but he repeated he felt confident that the Government would consider it their duty to interfere in the defence of their own interests and the lives of their fellow subjects.
 MR. WHITE  said, much misconception and delusion existed respecting the origin and objects of the insurrectionary movement; and if time were afforded, it would be a matter of interest to go into that part of the subject. No one could doubt that the collision of the Imperial authority with the British Government had been a primary cause of the disorganization which was producing such fatal effects. Till then the Chinese Government had rested on public opinion; but when the population of the south saw that their mighty empire was crumpling up on coming into collision with Occidental civilization, the prestige of the Government departed. He remembered that in 1849 the whole coast of China was ravaged by pirates, and their enormities arrived at such a pitch that the British Government was obliged to interfere. We pursued them and destroyed their junks. Many of the crews, who were good gunners, then went into the interior, and formed the nucleus of the rebellion which had assumed such proportions. It was not a little singular that nothing did more to damage the Chinese Government than the Canton raid of 1847, when our ships rushed up the Canton river and spiked 127 guns, and the capital was placed at our mercy. Shortly after that event the originator of the rebellion first became a Christian inquirer. Struck with the feats of the English sailors, he went to Mr. Roberts and inquired about the foreign Scriptures of a people that could do such deeds. He afterwards became a seer of visions and a dreamer of dreams, till he ultimately became the founder of this mighty insurrectionary movement. He (Mr. White) had some acquaintance with gentlemen who had inquired into the character of the Taepings, and a relative of his had visited their camp. He gathered that the Christian principles they professed amounted to nothing more than a high appreciation of Colt's revolvers in comparison with the native match-locks, and that they much preferred cherry brandy to the native sam-chow. The rebellion, taking its rise in the provinces, proceeded northward, and, striking upon the great river Yang-tze-kiang, approached,
 1816 1817 1818
 MR. WHITESIDE  asked, if the Bill was brought in after communicating with the heads of colleges in Ireland.
 MR. BLAKE  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether it is his intention to introduce a Bill during the present Session for the Reform of the Grand Jury Laws in Ireland?
 MR. BLAKE  complained, that the department of Art was sought to be made too much self-supporting. He spoke chiefly of Ireland, but his remarks would in great measure be equally applicable to this country. He himself was, with others, the means of establishing one of the first schools of art in Ireland, that at Waterford. By dint of great exertion, some of the mechanics were induced to go to the school, which prospered so long as it received the Government subsidy; but when that was withdrawn the attendance began to lessen, and at present the school was nothing more than a school of art for the higher and middle classes. He believed the same state of things existed at Limerick and other towns. At Belfast the school was closed; and it was a fact that several years had elapsed since a school of art had been established in Ireland. He hoped that the noble Lord's Motion would have the effect of bringing public attention to the matter. It appeared very strange that while Government thought it necessary to subsidize largely
 1794
 MR. BRADY  said, he could not but express his surprise at the tone in which the metropolitan Members had treated the question, for without a grand opening of that sort along the river-side London never would be what it ought to be. The mere removal of stoppages would in a few years give an advantage to the mercantile community of London that would quite compensate any new taxation that might be involved; but, in point of fact, no new taxation would be involved. So far from any improvement of the north side impeding that of the south, he believed that if the improvement of the north was carried out, the improvement of the south must follow. He cordially approved of the proposal of Government.
 MR. SPEAKER : The question is, whether or not any new burden is to be laid upon the people by the proposed Bill of the right hon. Gentleman. The right hon. Gentleman states that no new burden is laid on by the Bill. It is merely for the appropriation of a sum already voted. The Amendment added with respect to the London Wine and Coal Duties Act has nothing whatever to do, as I understand, with the question of taxation, but merely has reference to some alteration respecting the mode of keeping the accounts. Under these circumstances, it does not appear to me that there is anything informal in the Motion which the right hon. Gentleman has made.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he thought some consideration ought to be extended to the inhabitants of the south bank, and he should like to have some assurance as to whether the embankment on the north side was to be made with reference to the prospective embankment on the south side. As to the embankment from Millbank Street to Westminster Bridge, he wished to know whether it would be in front of the Houses of Parliament, and how access was proposed, seeing that there was no space for a street between the end of the clock-tower and the bridge. He approved a solid embankment, because the openings for barges would lead to a great accumulation of filth and mud, and he therefore condemned the proposal to have openings in that part east of the Temple Gardens, merely for the convenience of the City Gas Company. Those works might have been removed but for an Act which passed two years ago, and even now it would be worth considering whether some of the money from the coal duties should not be applied to get rid of them. He hoped that plans of the works would be
 1827
 MR. ROEBUCK  then said, that he would ask the permission of the House to have the petition printed, and sent round in the Votes of the House preliminary to a Motion which he should make on the subject.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he had a petition to present and a question to ask of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade. It appeared that in 1852 a railway company, called the West Hartlepool Harbour and Railway Company, was formed, and obtained an Act of Parliament, under which they had the power of borrowing £600,000, when they had raised half their share capital. It appeared that a return of their capital was made to the Board of Trade, from which it was clear that a fraud had been practised on the House. In 1854 a return was made to the Board of Trade of the shares issued and paid for amounting to £552,000. The directors in their report stated the amount at £480,110, while the sum really subscribed by the public was £287,878. In 1859 another incorrect return was made. There were a great number of other frauds charged in the petition. By the Act of Parliament the company was compelled not to have upon their direction less than five persons, but no more than four were at any time directors of that company, and for a great part of the time there were only three—Mr. Jackson, and his son, and Mr. Robert Watson, who acted as secretary as well as director. The company had since become
 1746
 MR. J. TOLLEMACHE  said, he rose to ask the President of the Board of Trade, What steps have been taken by the Government to put an end to the virtual prohibition against the importation of English Salt into France; and whether there is a prospect of the trade in that article being placed, at an early period, on a more favourable footing, in conformity with the spirit of the French Treaty; whether instructions have been given to Her Majesty's Minister at Brussels to exercise due vigilance in obtaining from the Bel-
 1748
 MR. MARSH  said, that as the House had heard so much of the atrocities of the Taepings, it would not be out of place for him to relate what had happened to the Chinese in Australia. A few years ago the ruling power in that country, the working classes, became alarmed lest their exorbitant wages should be reduced by the immigration of the Chinese. Many vile accusations were got up against them, but as far as he could ascertain they were without foundation. The absence of women among the Chinese emigrants was an incident which belonged to all gold-diggers, whether Germans, French, or even Britons. A Bill was introduced into the Cololian Parliament to expel the Chinese from the country; but after careful inquiry a Committee of the Upper Chamber reported in favour of the Chinese, and the measure was dropped. He had had a great many of those people in his employ-
 1819
 MR. LOWE : Sir, the number of Inspectors that report to the Privy Council is about thirty-five, and it is perfectly well understood that it is not expected from them to examine every child individually. It is hardly possible—indeed, it is impossible—that they can remember the number of children that they have examined in each class in all the schools, and we have never thought it advisable to propose the questions suggested by the hon. Member.
 MR. GREGSON  said, in reply, that he had experienced much gratification at hearing the statement of the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs, and he would not press his Motion to a division.
 MR. GREGSON  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the position of British merchants in China, and to move that due protection be afforded to them and their property in the treaty ports of that Empire. He proposed his Motion not in the interests of the merchants alone, but also to give an example to the Chinese of perfect honesty in our transactions. He did not propose to embark in another China war, either against the old Government or the Taepings. He merely desired to act on principles of self-defence, and that when the life and property of British subjects were threatened they should he protected. By the Treaty of Pekin we were entitled to enter the Celestial Empire, and thus to enter into communication with 400,000,000 souls. He believed that we had no reason to complain of the Imperial Government at present, and that Prince Kung was well disposed to foreigners. He had been in communication with several gentlemen who had recently returned from China, and
 1803 The Times, "Thus, without a blow, fell one of the strongest
 1804
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that with regard to the first question of the hon. Gentleman, which related to the reduction of duty on Salt imported into France in conformity with the spirit of the French Treaty, he could only say that the Government had been led to hope for some time past that the Import Duties upon Salt going into France would be considerably diminished; but that the delay, they were told, had taken place in consequence of an inquiry that was being conducted in Finance in reference to the Excise Duty on Salt made in France, it being rendered necessary to regulate the Import Duty on Salt imported into France in reference to the Excise Duty at present levied upon Salt made in France. He should, however, make inquiries with a view of ascertaining what prospect there was of a speedy settlement of the question. With respect to the question relative to Belgium, he could only say that up to the present time the Belgian Government had not agreed to give the same treatment to England that they had extended to many other countries. There was no doubt that at the present moment our trade with Belgium was not in so advantageous a position as the trade between Belgium and France and other countries. The Government had not failed to urge that this country was entitled to be treated equally with other countries by the Belgian Government, and they hoped they should ultimately succeed in obtaining that "favoured nation" clause, which was the question
 1749
 MR MILNER GIBSON  said, that the attention of the Board of Trade had been called to the subject of the petition which had just been presented by the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite. The returns, the accuracy of which were impugned, were made by the company to an order of that House. The order was sent to the Board of Trade, and they communicated with the company, but whether the return was accurate or not the Board of Trade had no means of ascertaining. The petitioner alleged that the returns were false, and the solicitor to the petitioner addressed a letter some time ago to the Board of Trade, in which he made similar allegations to those contained in the petition. He (Mr. Gibson), in reply, explained that the returns made by the West Hartlepool Harbour and Railway Company were returns to an order of the house of commons, and not to requirements of the Board of Trade, which obviously had not the means and had never assumed to verify the statements made by companies of the amount of their paid-up share capital and of their outstanding loans; and therefore if any legal criminality attached to the making of false returns to the order in question of the house of commons, the parties making it were responsible not to the Board of Trade but to that House. Such was the purport of the answer he addressed to the solicitor of the petitioner when he made his statement to the Board of Trade.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, my noble Friend who made this Motion addressed the House, as be
 1783 1784 1785 1786 1787 primâ facie 1788 1789 1790 bonâ fids 1791 1792 Previous Question
 MR. BUCHANAN  said, it was very gratifying to him to hear the statement of the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs, that measures were to be taken for the protection of British subjects in China. He wished, however, to remind the Government that Shanghai was not the only spot at which that protection ought to be afforded. The fact was that foreigners were better able to protect themselves at Shanghai than at any of the other centres of commerce in China; and it was at the remote points that the life and property of Europeans were most endangered.
 MR. CONINGHAM  observed, that he conceived the proposed embankment would prove to be one of the most important metropolitan improvements which had ever been proposed, and he was surprised that the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets should persevere in making war on all the schemes suggested for the improvement of London. The matter was one which regarded the whole country, in a certain sense; for it was not only the inhabitants of London who paid the coal tax, but every-
 1828
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, that while he agreed with the noble Lord that some one Minister of the Crown should be made responsible for the administration of the departments of science and art, he could not help thinking that Parliament itself was not altogether blameless in the matter. The House of Commons had completely ratified and rendered itself responsible for the acts of the heads of these departments, and he could not admit that the maladministration of which the noble Lord had complained was wholly attributable to the existence of boards of trustees. Surely the noble Lord forgot that nearly all the great mercantile concerns of the country were carried on by boards of directors. The whole question was surrounded with difficulties. With regard to the administration, allusion had been made to the  ex-officio ex-officio 1793
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for War, Why admissions to Sandhurst are not placed on the same footing as those to Woolwich—namely, competitive examination?
 MR. COX  said, he agreed that it would be desirable that the House should have the plans of the embankment before it previous to the second reading. He wished to call attention to the injury which would be inflicted upon persons occupying premises and engaged in trade along the river side by the proposed embankment. Those persons must remove to a distance, and have carts and waggons running from their yards to the side of the river. He should also like to have some further explanation of the use of the new road from the embankment by Earl Street to the Mansion House. He was of opinion that it would be utterly useless in removing the real press of traffic. If the improvement were carried out as proposed, it would be necessary to renew the coal tax for another ten years beyond those proposed by the Bill; and, as regarded the southern side, he was afraid that it would be little better than a nuisance, and would produce a constant overflow on that side of the water. He should be glad to hear from the right hon. Gentleman what effect it was expected the embankment would have on the foundations of London Bridge.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for
 1747
 MR. GREGORY  said, he had very great pleasure in seconding the Motion of his noble Friend, and he thought he was justified in saying that not only the house of commons, but all those who felt interested
 1778 1779 ex-officio 1780 1781 A laugh The Times 1782 Directeur des Arts,
 CAPTAIN STACPOOLE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether the Despatches relative to the Sikhim Expedition, in India, in February, 1861, have been received by Her Majesty's Government; and, if so, is there any objection to their being laid upon the table of the House?
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he fully concurred in the general terms of the Motion. There was not a nation on earth that did not insist upon its subjects and their property being under the protection of their respective Governments, in whatever part of the world they might be; but his hon. Friend had not given to the House one instance in which British subjects or their property had been endangered or destroyed through the Taepings in China. There had been a panic no doubt at Shanghai, but his hon. Friend appeared to be very oblivious as to what had formerly taken place there. The Taepings came to Shanghai in 1860, after having taken Soochow and defeated the imperialist army which had been besieging them at Nankin. When that army was defeated and dispersed over the country, the worthy soldiers of the Imperial Government plundered wherever they went; and their seeking refuge in Soochow having been resisted by the Tartar Governor, in revenge they burnt the suburbs—an act of atrocity which was falsely charged against the Taepings. The Taepings then captured Soochow, which has remained in their possession ever since, and a constant intercourse has been kept up with the Taepings by the European merchants at Shanghai. From Soochow, in August, 1860, the Taepings advanced upon Shanghai, at the invitation of the French (they said), to take peaceable possession of the city; but when within 200 yards of the walls they were received with shot and shell from French and English guns, losing 200 men. They did not return a shot, but made their way to the suburbs, where the French set upon them, and to dislodge them, set fire to the houses and destroyed hundreds of thousands of pounds worth of property. When they retired from Shanghai, these devastating rebels, as they are called, so far from desolating the country, left the crops standing. Overtures had now again been made to the European population of Shanghai to permit them to take peaceable possession of the Tartar city of Shanghai, but it was said they could not be trusted. What ground was there for refusing to trust them? Had they ever broken faith with Europeans? When they went to Ningpo, they sent word beforehand that in case no resistance were made, no European pro-
 1806
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he could not but express his regret that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cowper) had not included the south side of the Thames in his Bill. He should be glad to hear from the right hon. Gentleman whether there was any prospect of the southern embankment being carried out, at an early period. It was a matter of great importance to the comfort of the inhabitants in that district, as they were constantly inundated, and would suffer greater inconvenience if the north side only was embanked.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER , in rising to ask for leave to bring in a Bill for the better Government of the Inns of Court, said that at that late period of the night he would not occupy the time of the House by explaining at length the object of the measure, but would reserve his detailed statement until the second reading, which would be put off until the members of the Bar had returned from their circuits. He would, however, briefly state the evils of the present system under which the Inns of Court were governed. There were four Inns of Court—Lincoln's Inn, the Inner Temple, the Middle Temple, and Gray's Inn—and these were governed by committees composed of benchers, who were entirely self-elected. It was a custom to elect Queen's Counsel benchers; but it was not an invariable custom, the benchers having the most perfect freedom to elect whom they pleased. These benchers also conducted their proceedings in entire privacy, and gave no account of their administration to any members of the Inn. The property of the four Inns amounted to something like £50,000 a year, which arose principally from rents and the payments of Members. These Inns consisted of an intelligent and highly-educated body of men, and what he proposed was that they should have some share in the management of their property and affairs. That was in accordance with the principles of the constitution of the country, as well as with common sense and fairness. He proposed to respect
 1829
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  expressed an opinion that the usage of Parliament required that the Bill should be introduced in Committee.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he wished to thank the noble Lord for having brought forward the subject; but, after the declaration of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and the discussion which had taken place, he hoped the noble Lord would be content to withdraw his Motion. With regard to the observations of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Brighton, he believed the more the subject was inquired into, and the more the evidence taken before the Com-
 1795
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  in reply said, that probably it was the intention of Government to introduce such a Bill. There was a good deal of business on hand at present, but after Easter he thought there was a prospect of the subject being considered.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he wished to move for leave to introduce a Bill to define the powers of the President and Fellows of the King and Queen's College of Physicians in Ireland with respect to the election of Fellows. He need only state at that late hour that it was desirable to place the Irish College upon the same footing as the English and Scotch Colleges, which could receive Fellows from any University, whether home or foreign; whereas at present the King and Queen's College of Ireland was restricted to per-
 1831
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  was understood to reply in the affirmative.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  inquired what provision was made for inspection?
 MR. BOVILL  said, he would offer no opposition to the introduction of the Bill; but, at the same time, he must beg leave to be understood as not assenting to the necessity for it. The subject had been frequently inquired into, and upon the last inquiry in 1855 the Royal Commissioners had been satisfied upon every point. The Commissioners, including such men as Sir W. P. Wood, Sir J. T. Coleridge, Sir A. Cockburn, and others, reported that they found no trace of any misapplication of funds, but they did find many instances of disinterestedness and public spirit on the part of the benchers in not enforcing the payment of fees. For the administration of the funds it would be impossible to select a more efficient body than the present benchers, who comprised some of the most eminent names in our legal annals. With respect to the investigations of those bodies into the conduct of members of the Bar, it was true that they were conducted in private; but in what other way could an inquiry be conducted in which the moral conduct of members of the Bar was in question, without inflicting serious injury upon the persons accused?
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he would not follow his hon. and learned Friend through all the stages of the discursive speech which he had made, commencing with the period of villainage and dwelling on the calamitous effects of the plague, but would confine himself to the consideration of the existing law, and of a matter to which the hon. and learned Gentleman had scarcely devoted a single word—namely, the provisions of his own Bill. On the Motion for leave to introduce the Bill, he had expressed a hope that the mea-
 1843 1844 Respondeat superior. collaborateur v. 1845 1846 "Whenever any workman or servant was injured in consequence of his master, or any person employed by his master, not doing any act or providing anything which might be requisite or proper, or doing any act or providing anything which might be improper, in or for carrying on the undertaking in which any servant or workman was employed by or on account of his master, then such servant or workman should be entitled to recover from his master damages for such injury by action at law." 1847 1848 1849
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, that though he represented a constituency composed more entirely of workmen than any other in the empire, he should give his hearty and unhesitating opposition to the Bill, There could be no doubt that at present, if a master were guilty of negligence, either by raising ineffective machinery or employing incompetent men, he was held responsible for the accident; but in cases where the accident arose from what might be called (he inherent danger of the particular employment, the master ought to be exonerated. The Hartley Colliery accident occurred through the breaking of a cast-iron beam; and although thousands of similar beams were daily in use throughout the country, yet, if the proposed Bill were to pass into law, the owners of that mine would be held liable for damages to every widow and orphan affected by the accident. He thought that the decision of all these cases might be safely left to the Judges of the land. The present law was amply sufficient, and to extend it further would be no advantage to the workman, while it would be a grievous injustice to the employer.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he hoped the Bill would be enlarged in scope, so as to wholly abolish whipping in prisons. Universal praise was accorded to the prison discipline of Ireland, though there was more whipping in one gaol in England than in all the gaols in Ireland.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he rose to move the second reading of this Bill, and hoped to be able to satisfy the House of the necessity which existed for the adoption of this or some similar measure. That necessity appeared to him to arise from the condition of the law at the present time regulating the responsibility of masters to their workmen in cases of accident. When he stated that it was only so late as 1837,
 1835 1836 1837 "When a master employs a servant in a work of a dangerous character, he is bound to take all reasonable precautions for his safety. It is the master's duty to take care that his servant is not induced to work under the notion that tackle or machinery is stanch, when, in fact, the master knows, or ought to know, that it is not so; and if from negligence in this respect damage is received, the master is responsible. "It is very true, if a master employs several servants in the same operation, the persons engaged being competent persons, should an accident happen to one by the neglect of another, the master is not held responsible " "A master, by the laws of both countries, is liable for accidents occasioned by his neglect towards those whom he employs." "He is answerable generally for the state of his tackle; " 1838 1839 1840 1841 "If there were brought under the eye of every mill-owner, every half-year, a detailed account of the accidents reported and of the causes of them, such a picture would be very likely to induce him to take measures against the recurrence of accidents of a similar kind in his own mill by all practical means,"—and he added the melancholy fact,—"but such, of course, is obviously impossible." 1842
 MR. AYRTON , in reply, pointed out the special legislation in the Factory and Railway Acts to show that careless management had been with advantage restrained, so far as Parliament could restrain, in particular cases. He should press the Bill to a division, but he wished to announce his intention to prepare another measure, which, while dealing with the subject in the manner he desired, would remove some of the technical objections made to the measure before the House.
 MR. AYRTON  said, there was an indisposition on the part of the House and the metropolis to give increased powers to the Metropolitan Board. He thought the Bill ought not to pass in its present shape. When the Bill was first brought in, he himself suggested that it should go to a Committee of five, which was done. That Committee was selected as if it were a private Bill before which counsel should be heard. The Committee confined itself to one point having reference to a financial matter. He thought it would be better to refer the Bill to a Committee of fifteen, who would treat it as a public Bill.
 MR. BRISTOW  said, he would only ask for the Committee  pro formâ.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, having given notice to move amendments, he thought it very desirable that the amendments of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets should be brought forward now and disposed of at once. The amendments went to the principle of the election of the Members of the Board.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he was sorry to find that the Corporation of the City of London were satisfied with the Bill. Certain parishes and districts of the metropolis objected to the Till, as it imposed upon them liabilities amounting to £ 200,000, for which they alleged they were not responsible either in law or equity, and he hoped the House would be informed of the grounds on which such a proposal was made. He would suggest that the information could be supplied from the evidence taken by the Select Committee of 1860, to which a similar Bill had been referred, and be trusted that evidence would be presented to the House.
 MR. MACKIE  said, he saw that the Bill gave an exemption from tolls to clergymen of the Established Church, and he thought that the exemption should be extended to clergymen of all denominations.
 MR. LOCKE  said, that the amendments of the hon. Member (Mr. Ayrton) though very complicated, contained the important principle of the direct election of the Members of the Metropolitan Board of Works by the ratepayers—a principle approved by the Committee which sat on local taxation last year—and, as containing that principle, were worthy of the attention of the House of Commons. A decision ought to be arrived at whether the present system was to continue, or that in existence in all borough corpora-
 1855
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, as the hon. Member had consented to modify the provisions of the Bill with the view of meeting the objections he had urged against the measure, he should feel it his duty, in the interests of the City of London, to withdraw his opposition to it.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, that he hoped that nothing which had been said in the course of the discussion would be understood as denying the necessity for special legislation to prevent the recurrence of such lamentable accidents as had recently occurred. He did not think it would be desirable to apply the general principle that masters should bear the responsibility attendant on acts done by their servants in the way proposed by the
 1852
 MR. MITFORD  said, that he considered the Bill as one of the most one-sided pieces of legislation that had ever come before the House, and he trusted the House would not read it a second time.
 MR. TITE  said, he thought he should not have any difficulty in satisfying the hon. and learned Gentleman that the cases to which he had alluded had been considered with the view of consulting the interests of the parishes referred to.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he did not wish to throw any difficulty in the way of the Board proceeding with the Bill. He thought, however, that before the Bill was referred to a Select Committee the question of the direct election of the Members of the Board should be first discussed in the House. The Metropolitan Board ought to be able to do for the Metropolis that which the Corporation of the City of London could do for the City; but when they sought for the additional powers which were proposed to be given to them by the Bill, it was felt that they had not acquired the confidence of the ratepayers generally. He believed that that confidence would be much strengthened if they were elected directly by the ratepayers.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, that as a large employer of labour, he wished to correct an unfair impression which the observations of the hon. Member who introduced the Bill were calculated to produce in regard to the class to which he belonged. He was prepared to say that the great employers of labour took a fair and equitable view of their responsibilities in reference to their workmen. But if the Bill passed, the masters would be plunged into a sea of litigation, out of which he did not see how they were to emerge. Everybody who knew anything of public works would confirm him in saying that the greatest difficulty the masters had was to make the men take even the most ordinary precaution for their own safety. In operations for blasting, for instance—the men were supplied with the patent safety tubes, but as they involved a little more trouble, they would not use them, unless compelled by the overlooker. So in tunnelling, he had seen men stick a candle against the wall merely by the adhesion of the tallow, with barrels of powder ranged just below. As another instance of carelessness, he might mention a case which occurred about four years ago. At one of his large works powder was in use. There was a strict order that no one should smoke in the sheds in which some of the powder was kept. However, one day he thought he got a smell of tobacco, and, on entering the shed, found a fellow sitting in a very unconcerned manner on a keg of powder, and enjoying his pipe while in that position. All he could say was that, had the man been, as he (Sir Morton Peto)
 1853
 MR. BOVILL  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had introduced the Bill had alluded to the relations of the working classes to those above them, and he proposed to place the parties, as he said, on an equality; but the Bill would impose upon masters a greater responsibility towards their servants than towards the rest of the public. No doubt several remarkable cases of injury from accidents had recently occurred, but in such cases it was desirable to apply the remedy to the grievances which were proved to exist, rather than to pass a sweeping enactment like that under consideration, which might be supposed to include all the cases which could possibly arise, but which, while it professed to provide for equality of responsibility, would throw upon masters an entirely novel responsibility towards their
 1850 1851
 MR. COWPER  said, that this communication between Hamilton Place and Park Lane was recommended by a Committee of the House of Commons in 1855. It was fully considered by the Government in 1856, but the difficulties were found to be such that no steps were taken. The difficulties were these:—When Hamilton Place was laid out, in 1809, it was intended to be a street without any thoroughfare, and those who now held from the Crown leases of those houses had taken those leases on the understanding that that arrangement was still to continue. If a communication were to be made from Hamilton Place to Park Lane, it must pass not only through gardens which were now considered a portion of Hyde Park, but likewise through two gardens held on lease in connection with the adjoining houses, which were let on terms that had now forty years to run. Under these circumstances, the Government were not prepared to take any steps. It appeared that these gardens could not be taken without an Act of Parliament, since the trustees were not willing that Hamilton Place should be made a thoroughfare; that Act of Parliament must direct a purchase of the property, and if so, a considerable amount of compensation would probably be awarded. It must be remembered also that Hamilton Place was not of the width required for an important thoroughfare, as the distance between one area railing and another, at one extremity of the street, was not more than thirty-eight feet. He thought the better way to improve the communication would be by widening Park Lane, and he recommended his hon. Friend to turn his
 1874
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, that in consequence of the answer which had been given by the right hon. Baronet, he would on an early day move for leave to bring in a Bill on the subject of drainage in Ireland.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he did not think is was finally determined what the business for Monday would be, and therefore perhaps the hon. Member for Galway would repeat his question. He understood it was intended to bring on the Civil Service Estimates on Monday.
 MR. BAGWELL  said, he wished to move that it be an instruction to the Committee to make provision for an equalization of weights and measures in all mercantile transactions in Ireland.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he thought it undesirable at that stage of the Bill to raise so large a question, and he would therefore suggest to the hon. Gentleman to withdraw his instruction.
 MR. GEORGE  said, he thought it would be necessary to agree to these instructions, or otherwise, when the House went into Committee, it might be found that they could not deal with the subject.
 COLONEI, DUNNE  asked, whether it would be possible to discuss the whole question when they came to be in Committee if the instructions were not agreed to?
 MR. CARDWELL  suggested, that the best course to pursue would be to allow the Markets and Fairs Bill to pass; and then, if it were the wish of the Irish Members, to bring in a Bill afterwards for the regulation of weights and measures generally in Ireland.
 MR. SPEAKER  expressed his opinion that the Committee would not be able to consider the question raised by the hon. Member for Clonmel (Mr. Bagwell), unless the instruction were agreed to.
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, he would propose to omit lines 7 and 8, the effect of which would be to extend the provisions of the Bill to all classes of mercantile contracts in Ireland, and not confine them simply to transactions which took place at fairs and markets. His real object was that where articles were sold by weight, whether at market or not, the Act should apply.
 LORD NAAS  said, he would remind the Committee that if the Amendment were carried, it would affect the sale of commodities all over Ireland. It was most expedient that the experience of similarity of weights and measures should be tried in the first instance at markets and fairs, where the standard weight was more known and understood than in remote districts. A provision which might very usefully be rendered applicable to contracts in the case of fairs or markets, might be found to operate somewhat oppressively if brought to bear upon the validity of transactions taking place between persons outside their pale.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, he should support the Amendment, on the ground that if it was fair to establish a uniform system of weights in markets, it was equally fair that the system should be applied to private transactions outside markets.
 MR. O'BRIEN  said, he thought the clause went far enough in the mean time.
 MR. BAGWELL  said, it was absolutely necessary, if the Bill was intended to work satisfactorily, that the provision under discussion should be extended as proposed by the hon. and learned Member for Mallow.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, he hoped the Amendment would be pressed.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he hoped that every Irish Member would give his assent to the Amendment, because public opinion in Ireland was, he believed, fully prepared for the change.
 GENERAL UPTON  supported the Amendment.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, he agreed with the noble Lord the Member for Cockermouth (Lord Naas) that the change effected by the Bill was as much as could be attempted at present by legislation.
 MR. WHITESIDE  suggested, that in private transactions it should be left optional with the parties to buy and sell by weight or measure as they pleased; but that if they dealt by weight, they should be bound to adopt the weights sanctioned by the Legislature.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  said, that from local knowledge and from the tone of the letters he received when holding office in Ireland, he could assure the House that the popular desire was that there should be an assimilation of weights for all purposes.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, as the measure referred only to fairs and markets, he thought it would be undesirable to extend its provisions beyond the limit proposed. If, however, there was a general wish on the part of the Irish Members to adopt the amendment, he should not object.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, he would suggest the addition of the word "sheep" after "carcasses of beef."
 LORD NAAS  said, he objected to the Amendment, as mutton was generally sold in small quantities.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he did not see why dead sheep should not be sold by weight when dead pigs were.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, he thought it would be a very stringent proceeding to render all contracts by weight void if not made by avoirdupois weight. It was easy to pass an Act declaring that there should
 1878
 MR. HASSARD  said, that, in fact, no material change would be effected by the clause. The same weights applied to all articles except butter and wool.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he thought the words were so large that they would include contracts made in jeweller's shops, where articles manufactured from the precious metals, were sold by troy weight. They might even extend to the dealings of the Bank of Ireland in bullion.
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, to meet that objection he would propose the addition of the words "excepting articles usually sold by troy weight."
 MR. LONGFIELD  said he wished to move that the words, "Markets and Fairs" be omitted throughout the clause. That was a verbal Amendment consequential upon the amendments made in the previous clause. His object was to extend the operation of the clause to dealings elsewhere besides in markets and fairs.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  asked, whether it was intended by the Amendment to apply to all weighings in shops?
 MR. LONGFIELD  replied in the affirmative.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he thought it would be necessary to introduce some words to show that the weighing was for sale, or it would apply to the weighing necessary in a gentleman's kitchen.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he would suggest the addition of the words "every article sold by weight."
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, he would suggest that the words "at a public weighing-house or place" should be
 1879
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, he Was willing to accept this Amendment.
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, he would then move to omit from line 31 the words "without any" and to insert the words "and no."
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he objected to the Amendment, as, coupled with another Amendment to be subsequently proposed, it would revive the exploded system of penalties for deduction. The Cork butter-market was now the most flourishing market in Ireland, and it dated its prosperity from the time when the old restrictions were abolished. He hoped those restrictions would not be revived.
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, that the Bill would be inoperative without this Amendment, and another in line 34. He wanted to provide, by these Amendments, that no deductions should be claimed or made by any purchaser for beamage or on any pretext whatever, under a penalty of £ 5. He had, however, no objection to diminish the penalty, and say "not exceeding £ 5."
 LORD NAAS  said, he thought that the penalty would operate very hardly, especially as the Act made every contract void which broke the law. He thought it dangerous to impose a penalty for an act which might be committed through ignorance.
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  said that he was of opinion that the only way of compelling justice to be done to the poor farmers was, that of imposing a penalty in certain cases. He thought that few persons would remain in ignorance of the Act long after it was passed.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he should be willing to accede to what appeared to be the general wish of the Committee and accept the Amendment.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that in Cork market, some years ago, there were more frauds committed than he could enumerate. The trade of that market had been improved, no doubt; still he was in favour of imposing a penalty in every case where a fraud should be committed.
 MR. BEAMISH  said, that the Select Committee to whom this Bill had been referred had not thought it necessary to insert a penalty, and he hoped the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland would not consent to any alteration being made in the clause.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that as it
 1880
 MR. HENNESSY  contended, that the alteration proposed to be made in this clause would operate to the great injury of Cork butter market, which was now one of the most flourishing in the world.
 MR. GEORGE  said, he approved of the Amendment, it being in his opinion a most admirable one, and it would, no doubt, give great satisfaction to the farmers of Ireland. The clause would be wholly inoperative without a penalty in cases of improper deductions.
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  said, he hoped that the Home Secretary would, at the same time tell the Committee whether, if such a law existed in England, without the penalty, it was not inoperative.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he could not answer the question; but he could assure the Committee that the clause would be inoperative without the penalty.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he wished to call attention to a petition from the inhabitants of Mountmellick, Queen's County, objecting to the provision that the articles to be weighed on market days should be brought to the public scales as impracticable. It was probable that on a market day there would not be the means of weighing at the public scales the quantity of corn sold in that town.
 MR. HASSARD  said, he wished to move the omission of certain words which would have the effect of making it optional to the buyer or seller to have an article weighed in the public market. A Resolution had been passed by the Dublin Chamber of Commerce to the effect that compulsory weighing was a matter of very questionable propriety, and would not only operate as shackles on trade, but would be often tortured into an instrument of fraud.
 MAJOR KNOX  said, he objected to the Amendment. The buyers of flax had frequently been brought up for having heavy weights in their stores with which the flax bought by them was weighed, the effect being that the seller lost a certain amount of his flax. He therefore considered that the compulsory part of the clause was of great importance.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he hoped the Committee would not consent to the Amendment, as, unless the weighing were compulsory, the enactment would be nugatory. However, the clause as it stood would strike completely at that large and very beneficial class of sales which were effected by sample. It would also injuriously affect sales of flax, because though the article would have to be overhauled and tossed about in the market, and a considerable part of a winter's day would be thus consumed, the buyer would have no security that the flax which might be brought to his store was the same as he had purchased. The matter had occupied the attention of the flax-buyers in Ireland. They did not desire to be exempt from any proper regulation, and they proposed two alternatives; one was that flax should be made an exception from these particular clauses of the Bill; and the other, and probably the better, was that, inasmuch as all the merchants who bought flax bought it to a large extent, those merchants should have in their own stores proper sets of weights, and that authorized officers should attend at the stores to weigh the goods and collect the tolls.
 MR. BLAKE  declared, that unless the clause was compulsory, the Bill would be utterly valueless; and the Amendment, if carried, would strike at the entire root of the Bill.
 LORD DUNKELLIN  said, he should support the Amendment. He could not admit that as a rule the buyer was in the habit of dealing harshly with the seller. Though such might be the result of the experience of hon. Gentlemen from the North, it was not the practice throughout the rest of Ireland.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that the Amendment struck at one of the principal features of the measure. He had always been under the impression that the adoption of a provision for compulsory weighing in markets had been agreed to as a compromise to settle the question. The Commissioners had visited thirty counties, and had found that they were all unanimous in favour both of compulsory weighing and of equality as between buyer and seller. In Limerick, which had one of the most important markets in Ireland, the frauds that prevailed had been so great that the town actually petitioned for an Act to introduce a compulsory system—an example which
 1882
 MR. GREGORY  said, he was glad to hear that the right hon. Baronet intended to persevere with the clause, which he considered the most essential portion of the Bill. He was continually met by complaints on the part of country folks of the use of irregular weights and measures by private traders.
 LORD NAAS  said, he could but admit that such frauds were practised, and that it was desirable to put an end to them; but he was, at the same time, afraid that it would be found impossible to enforce the provision that everything should be weighed in public market.
 MR. DUNLOP  said, he had received strong representations on the part of his constituents, many of whom were large purchasers of flax in Ireland, against the clause, unless it were accompanied by some such limitation as that which had been proposed.
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, he would urge upon the Government to persevere with the principle of compulsory weighing.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  said, that if the clause were expunged, the efficiency of the Bill would be in a great measure destroyed. Great frauds were committed in Ireland in consequence of the want of such a system as was proposed. A Commission reported a few years ago, that when proper market accommodation was once provided, all agricultural produce should be both sold and weighed in the public market under the superintendence of a sworn weighing master.
 MR. GEORGE  said, he could not agree with the Amendment proposed by the hon. Gentleman behind him. He was afraid, however, that if the sales by sample were interfered with it would create much discontent.
 COLONEL LESLIE  remarked, that compulsory weighing prevailed to a large extent in England.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, there could be no doubt that the clause under discus-
 1883
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, he hoped that the question of flax would be considered. Such a clause as that under consideration would produce great confusion among the buyers and sellers of flax, and interfere with the natural current of trade as between them. It was proposed to make it penal to carry on such transactions above a certain amount in the weighing-house, and the ticket of the weigher was to be conclusive of the weight, and then by Clause 16, a penalty was to be inflicted if the buyer or seller refused to be bound by that weight. There was no security that the article delivered at the store-house would be identical in weight and quality with the flax or corn bought and. weighed in the market.
 MR. VANCE  said, he would suggest that the articles brought into the market should be alone weighed, and that any contract dependent thereon should take effect without the public weighing of the bulk.
 MR. RICHARDSON  said, he approved of the principle of uniformity of weights and measures, but it was quite impossible to have the article of flax weighed in the public scale. The farmer never would be able to get paid on the same day, seeing that flax alone in many cases would occupy nearly all day to weigh. He also objected to any clause which prevented the farmer from protecting himself by re-weighing the article.
 MR. GREGORY  suggested, that the clause should be postponed, and brought up again on the Report, with Amendments.
 MR. HASSARD  said, that as the general feeling of the Committee was against his Amendment, he would withdraw it, though his opinion of its policy was unchanged.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he thought that the difficulty with regard to samples might be cured by inserting the words "and delivered" after "sold," so as to make the Act apply only to articles sold and delivered in the market.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that on the bringing up of the Report he would insert a clause to exempt flax. With respect to the samples, he would consider the suggestion of the hon. Member who had brought that point under consideration.
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  proposed to increase the penalties for fraud by weighers by rendering the offender incapable of holding office in future.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he doubted the expediency of the Amendment.
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  said, he would withdraw it.
 LORD NAAS  said, he wished to draw the attention of the right hon. Baronet to the extent of the powers of inquiry conferred by this and the 77th clause upon the Lord Lieutenant. By those clauses the Lord Lieutenant had power to depute to any person or persons he desired to appoint as Commissioners to inquire whether the existing market accommodation at a particular place was sufficient; whether new markets should be established, and where; and they would also have to settle market days, and to make inquiries of a very extensive nature, many of which would require that counsel should be heard. He (Lord Naas) was of opinion that some one person of experience and legal knowledge should be appointed for the purpose. A salary of £ 1,000 or £ 1,200 a year would obtain the services of such a Commissioner; whereas, if there were numerous local inquiries, the expense would be endless and the costs great. As the expenses were to be defrayed out of the Consolidated Fund, there was no difficulty now as to the funds, but he believed that his suggestion, if adopted, would tend towards economy.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, the Government had not desired to increase officials, but rather to leave local enterprise great liberty to regulate its own affairs. But on a new system, no doubt, a competent person would be required; and therefore he thought that, for a time at least, some person of standing should be at the disposal of the Lord Lieutenant. With the consent of the Chancellor of the Exchequer he had determined, if it met with the approval of the Committee, to take power to nominate persons to conduct any inquiries which might be necessary, and to draw on the Treasury to the amount of £ 500 a year, for five years, in order to meet the expenses. He thought an officer with a salary of £ 1,200 a year un-
 1885
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he believed that a Bill to lessen the number of official persons in Ireland would be a great boon to the country, and that at the end of the five years it would be difficult to root out a gentleman with £ 500 a year. A lease of five years would be a lease for life, with the probability of a claim for compensation. In his opinion the proposal savoured of a job.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that, as no doubt he should be in the House at the end of the five years, he would take very good care that the gentleman should be rooted out. It was important to employ persons free from the influence of local prejudices.
 MR. BEAMISH  said, he would assent to the proposal, though he should strongly object to a permanent office.
 MR. HASSARD  said, he thought it absolutely necessary that the inquiries should be conducted by one person, so as to avoid conflicting decisions.
 LORD NAAS  asked, whether all the inquiries would be intrusted to one individual?
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, not unless the local authorities desire his presence. They would, otherwise, be empowered to make the inquiries themselves.
 LORD NAAS  said, that that being the case, he could hardly accept the proposition. He did not think it would work well unless there was uniformity of decision.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he thought that the clause had better remain as it stood.
 LORD NAAS  said, he desired to know by whom the expenses would be borne?
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that in a former Bill extensive powers were intrusted to commissioners, whereas by this Bill they were given to the Lord Lieutenant; in Council. In England the promoters of Bills with respect to fairs and markets paid all expenses, and he had thought that it was only reasonable that the different localities in Ireland should bear the expenses of Orders in Council. His right hon. Friend, however, had persuaded the Chancellor of the Exchequer to allow £ 500 a year for five years for the expenses of carrying the Act into effect, and he understood that the money would be expended in addition to the provision made by the undertakers. It would be desirable
 1886
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  remarked, that the matter might be safely left to the decision of the Government.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  suggested, that the precedent of the Savings Banks Act should be followed. Under it power was given to appoint a barrister to settle disputes. Mr. Tidd Pratt, having been appointed, went down to various parts of the country and arranged all matters under the Act; and in the same manner one barrister could transact the duties under the Bill.
 MR. GREGORY  said, he agreed with his noble Friend opposite. He thought that as various intricate questions would arise under the Bill, it was desirable to have in the first instance, a person of considerable authority and weight to decide them, so as to prevent any conflict of decisions. He, however, preferred the proposal of the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) as it only involved a temporary arrangement.
 LORD NAAS  said, he would suggest an Amendment to the effect that instead of appointing the commissioner for five years, he should be appointed for whatever term the Government might hereafter direct.
 MR. HASSARD  observed, that there ought to be power under the Bill to appoint at least three commissioners.
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  said, there was an advantage in having only one commissioner, as his decisions would be uniform.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that the object of the Government was to appoint only one individual; but it might be necessary to have more in the event of demands for decisions coming from different parts of the country at the same time.
 MR. HASSARD  asked, whether the tolls were to be paid on the entry of the articles into the market?
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  said, that the reply must affect seriously the cattle jobbers—a useful class, who went from one fair to another. The sellers should not be asked to pay tolls if they did not part with their goods.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the question could be more suitably raised in the schedule.
 MR. HASSARD  said, he proposed to insert words to the effect that where it was proposed to establish a new market in the vicinity of or within a mile of another market, notice should be given to the owner or lessee or to the party in receipt of the tolls thereof, at least one month before such application should be considered.
 MR. GREGORY  said, he wished to add a proviso to the clause, to the effect that the Lord Lieutenant in council should appoint an inspector for five years, at a salary of £ 500 per annum to conduct any inquiries into the state of the markets and fairs, and the requirements of the public in relation thereto.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, the Government did not wish to be bound to. give any stated sum for any stated period, but to be left entirely free, and the effect of the proviso would be. to create a permanent office for at least five years.
 LORD NAAS  said, his proposition was to appoint only one inspector, but it was evidently the intention of the Government to appoint a variety of inspectors, and. it would be better for the Committee to decide the question at once.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he could assure the noble Lord that it was not the intention of the Government to appoint a variety of persons.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the Vote for £ 500 a year would be in the Estimates, and any hon. Member might oppose the grant.
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, he thought the intention of the Government was clear. Circumstances might arise to make it necessary for them to appoint more than one inspector at the same time; for instance, one might be required for the north and another for the south of Ireland. He thought the Government ought not to be bound to any stated course of action.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  said, he was of opinion that some words ought to be inserted to restrict the operation of the Clause.
 MR. HASSARD  said, he would suggest that, a proviso to the effect, that all inquiries under the Act should be carried on by the same person, as far as practicable, would meet the views of all parties.
 MR. GREGORY  said, he would accept that Amendment in lieu of his own.
 MR. BLAKE  that in certain towns the weigh-masters were entitled to receive one halfpenny per hundredweight for discharging their duties; and if they were allowed to make that claim under the new Act, they would obtain the lion's share. In towns so circumstanced he application would be made for the adoption of the Act, and he would propose, therefore, that the salaries of such persons should not exceed what they had been in receipt of on an average for the preceding five years. He proposed to insert a provision after Clause 20, enabling the owners or persons entitled to the tolls to discharge from or retain such weigh-masters in office on the terms indicated by him.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he must oppose the proposition.
 MR. BLAKE  urged the right hon. Baronet to assent to the proposal.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he would promise, on bringing up the Report, to introduce a clause oh the subject.
 MR. BLAKE  said he would then propose, after Clause 23, to introduce the following clause:—
 "From and after the passing of this Act the appointment of weigh master of butter and taster of butter, under the Act of the fifty-second year of George III., cap. 134, shall be invested in and made by the mayor, alderman, and councillors of the boroughs and towns corporate in Ireland, instead of the mayor and aldermen only of such borough or town corporate, as is by the said Act prescribed."
 MR. CARDWEL  L said he must oppose the clause, as being quite inconsistent with the earlier part of the Bill.
 MR. HASSARD  said, no such office as that of taster of butter was contemplated by the Bill.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  stated that he had prepared some amendments with the view of giving effect to suggestions made by hon. Members on former occasions.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said it was intended to include in the Bill copies of original paintings, because any man knew that copies might be made under circumstances that would render the copying of those copies as injurious to the owner as if they were original works. In the case of a fresco, for example, it might become necessary to take a copy for the; purpose of preserving the subject, and nothing could be more unjust than that a
 1890
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought that the observations of his hon. Friend (Mr. Bentinck) had hardly been answered. He would put the case of an artist selling a picture, and retaining no copyright in that picture. If the artist afterwards made a duplicate original, how would matters stand? They all knew that those things were often reproduced in that way, and it was difficult to determine between copies and duplicate originals. How was the second picture to stand? Was there to be a copyright in it, or not? He wished the hon. and learned Gentleman would let all the questions under this Bill be decided by a court of record.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he would consider before the bringing up of the report whether words should not be inserted to the effect that an original work being sold without copyright, no subsequent copy or repetition of the same work should be entitled to copyright.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he wished to inquire what was meant by the words "every offender shall forfeit to every person aggrieved." Was it the man who painted, or who purchased the picture, or both?
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the words in practice sufficiently explained themselves. The person aggrieved would be the artist whose name was fraudulently used, or the person on whom the fabricated work was fraudulently palmed off, or it might be both.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he would then ask the hon. and learned Gentleman whether he would consent to strike out those clauses giving summary jurisdiction to magistrates? It was hardly fair to throw upon them the decision of questions which were to be determined not by reference to any Act of Parliament, but simply upon opinions given that a particular thing was painted by a particular person. Matters of that nature ought to go before a court of record, which would be protected in case it came to a wrong decision. In-
 1892
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the clause to which the right hon. Gentleman objected was taken, he believed, in substance, if not in form, from two Acts  in pari materiâ,
 MR. HENLEY  said, he did not think the other Acts to which the hon. and learned Gentleman referred could be said to be  in pari materiâ.
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, he thought that it would be dangerous at present to include photographs in a Bill of the kind. Photography was not a fine art, but a mechanical process. At some future
 1891
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  observed, that although, strictly and technically speaking, a photograph was not in one sense to be treated as a work of fine art, yet very considerable expense was frequently incurred in obtaining good photographs. Persons had gone to foreign countries—to the Crimea, Syria, and Egypt—for the purpose of obtaining a valuable series of photographs, and bad thus entailed upon themselves a large expenditure of time, labour, and money. Was it just that the moment they returned home other persons should be allowed, by obtaining negatives from their positives, to enrich themselves at their expense? He could not consent to exclude photographs from the Bill.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he could not see why the same remedies which were applicable to copyright in books and designs should not be applied to copyright in pictures. He saw no objection to extending the penalties to breach of copyright in engravings.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought the proceeding prescribed in the clause a most anomalous one. He moved the omission of the word "either."
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, as he did not understand from the hon. Gentleman that he would present the papers to the House, he begged leave to ask him, whether by Monday next he would be prepared to give an answer to the question?
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he wished to inquire, Whether the hon. Gentleman will lay on the table any recent Despatches received from Sir James Hudson?
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, a debate was about to come on—[ Cries of
 MR. LAYARD  said, he hoped in the course of the Session to lay upon the table some of those papers.
 MR. LAYARD  said, of course they had at the Foreign Office a large number of Despatches from their Minister in Italy, but no address had been moved for papers, and when his hon. Friend opposite (Mr. Cochrane) asked a general question, whether he was prepared to lay papers on Italian affairs on the table, he was not able to give any other answer than that which he had already given.
 MR. LAYARD  said, Her Majesty's Government had received accounts of those meetings, as they received accounts of' other incidents of interest or importance which might happen in other countries; but he thought it would be unbecoming in them, and inconsistent with due regard to the dignity of the Italian Government, if they were to lay those papers on the table of the House, as he should think it unbecoming in the Italian Government, and inconsistent with due respect towards the Government of this country, if that Government were to lay before the Italian Parliament any papers connected with public meetings held in the Free Trade Hall, Birmingham, or the Rotunda, Dublin.
 MR. LAYARD  replied, he was not able to give any promise.
 MR. BENTINCK  hoped the hon. Gentleman would give way on the question of referring decisions in matters of art to the justices. At all events, it ought to be made optional.
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether he has received any official account of the meeting of the "Provisional Committees of Italy," held at the Paganini Theatre, at Genoa, on Sunday, the 9th of March, and of the subsequent proceedings of those bodies; and whether he will lay Copies of such Despatches on the table or state their import?
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, he wished to ask for some explanations with respect to the copyright in the copy of a picture, which it was proposed to give by the Bill. He would admit that the Bill was an improvement on that of last year. He should, however, be glad to know whether the term "painting" in the bill applied to original pictures only, or included a copy, so as to give copyright in a copy whilst there was no copyright in the original. He was also anxious to know whether his hon. and learned Friend (the Solicitor General) was prepared with a clause providing for registration at Stationers' Hall, or some place else, in order that title in respect to copyright might be ascertained.
 MR. WHITE  said, he wished to direct the attention of the hon. and learned Solicicitor General to the necessity of providing, by some clause, that publishers of prints should put their names and the date of publication on those prints. For the last ten years publishers had been much in the habit of publishing engravings without any name or date.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he rose to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether his attention has been called to the effect of the floods over the district from Roscrea to the Shannon, and to the flooding of the tributaries of the Barrow; and whether he proposes to introduce any general Drainage Bill for Ireland this Session?
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he would beg to ask, whether the hon. Gentleman will lay the papers in his possession upon the table before the debate on Italian affairs was to come on?
 MR. HENNESSY  suggested, that at all events photographic portraits should be excluded. A visit to the Holy Land was not necessary for taking the portrait of the hon. and learned Gentleman, and yet it would be hard to prevent the public from obtaining a copy of his likeness.
 MR. CONINGHAM  suggested, that the
 1893
 MR. GREGORY  said, he had been requested by the Poor Law Reform Committee sitting in Dublin to ask the Chief secretary for Ireland, Whether he will give some intimation as to the time when it was intended to go into Committee on the Poor Law Amendment Bill?
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, be wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether, in consideration of the inconvenience and danger arising from the narrow entrance from Piccadilly to Park Lane, he will take measures to open the communication from Park Lane into Hamilton Place?
 SIR MATTHEW RIDLEY  said, he was glad that a system of registration was to be established. Such a system was absolutely necessary for the security of property.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he was not aware that the Government had received any information on the subject to which the hon. Member referred; and as at present advised, he thought the Govern-
 1873
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, on Monday.
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, he was induced to take part in the debate by the fact that the Resolution recently submitted to the House by the hon. Member for Taunton (Mr. A. Mills) on the subject of the military defence of the colonies had been used in the discussion of the Army Estimates to coerce the Government in the matter of colonial fortifications in a manner which he was sure was never intend d by many hon. Gentlemen. The hon. Member
 1906 1907
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : Sir, the question of fortifications in our colonies is part of the more general question of the military defence of the colonies. It is impossible to disassociate the one altogether from the other. The military defence of our colonies has already been the subject of a debate, and I think the House came to the conclusion that it should be regarded partly as a colonial and partly as a military question. Therefore, before we can form an opinion upon the Resolution of the hon. Member for Montrose, it is necessary that we should make up our minds, in the first place, as to the view we ought to take with respect to the military defence of the colonies, and how far we think it desirable that the Imperial; Treasury and the Imperial army should assist in defending the colonies against their external enemies. When we have made up our minds upon that question, we have next to consider how far it would be expedient to make colonial fortifications a part of colonial defence. With regard to the view which the House may be inclined to take of the more general subject of the defence of our colonies, much depends upon the opinion which it may form of the general relations in which the colonies, according to the most recent views, stand to the mother country. There are at present in the world two great nations which act upon the principle of subjecting to their rule as large a portion of the surface of the globe as it is possible for them to govern. Those two countries are Great Britain and the United States of America. There were in former times two other nations which made an attempt to establish, if not a universal monarchy, at all events a monarchy on a very wide scale. Those two countries were Spain and France. They have now abandoned the project of governing any large portion of the surface of the world, and for the most part their dominions are confined to the
 1908 1909 1910 1911
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : The statements of the right hon. Gentleman are perfectly correct as far as they went. The information I have received is, that a clerk named Conolly, who was formerly in the Ordnance Department, and afterwards on the Consolidated Staff of the War Department as chief clerk of his branch, conspired with a contractor named M'Ilvaine to defraud the Government. My information leads me to the belief that their frauds extended over the years between 1848 and 1861. It is plain that as the amalgamation of the Ordnance and War Departments took place in 1854, these offences were not due to that measure. The manner in which the frauds were committed was this:—The Commanding Officer of Engineers certified the value of the work done, and delivered the certificate to the chief clerk, who, in collusion with the contractor, increased the amount, and transmitted it to the War Office in London, where it was examined, and whence the order for payment on the paymaster was sent to the contractor. That was the system of checks; the chief clerk was supposed to be a check upon the officer of Engineers, and the contractor to be a check upon these two officers. It was the practice of the old Ordnance Office, and no alteration was introduced by the combined departments. The right hon. Gentleman said, that if payment had been made on the order of the officer of Engineers, the possibility of fraud would have been avoided. But, without intending to cast any imputation upon the honour of officers of the army, he must say, that if there bad been collusion between the officer of Engineers and the contractor, such a system would have led to a precisely similar result. [Mr. WHITESIDE: Then we have no hope?] Your hope is in this, that you may have a system of checks which will make fraud extremely difficult.  Quis custodiet ipsos custodes 1928
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, that in England the system was very simple. The works were executed by contract and measurement, and when complete the contractor, the clerk of the works, and the executive officer of Engineers, each of whom kept a book, checked one another. The check was complete, for there must be collusion between all four persons before any fraud could be effected. It appeared that in the instance referred to the amount paid was more than the work could cost. It should be known that in these cases there was an estimate, and every sum paid upon it was entered in a hook. Now it was the duty of the clerk who made the entries, the moment there was an excess of payment over the estimate, to state the fact; and therefore the contractor would be called upon to know why there was an excess. He contended that the practice should be that no bill in which there was an erasure or interlineation should be paid, and he would suggest that there should be a positive order to that effect.
 MR. A. SMITH  said, he rose to call attention to the delay in presenting the
 1929
 MR. LINDSAY  was gratified with the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, as far as it went, and expressed approval of the proposition with regard to engineers. He doubted whether it was desirable to extend the regulations with respect to discipline down so low as to include the case of fishing vessels, while he was prepared to express his satisfaction at finding that negotiations had been entered into with the French and other Governments to establish one "rule of the road." In reference to the question of pilotage, however, he must express his regret that the Bill did not go further than the right hon. Gentleman proposed. Why should the system of compulsory pilotage be continued at all? At Newcastle the voluntary system was in operation, and it worked admirably. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman would reconsider the subject. As to the liability of shipowners, he thought the Government had arrived at a very wise conclusion, and he begged to express his thanks to his hon. Friend for having introduced the Bill.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT : I have much satisfaction in giving my support to the Motion before the House, convinced as I am, from the inquiries I have not failed to make, that the officers, at the time they accepted the captain's rank on the Reserved List, did so on the clear understanding that the construction they put on the order was the correct one, though I dissent from the opinion expressed by the hon. and gallant Officer that they had been cajoled into accepting it; because every one acquainted with the public and private character of the right hon. Member for Portsmouth must know that he was incapable of any act not strictly consistent with truth and honour. Believing then, as I conscientiously do, that both in reason and in justice these officers are entitled to their demands, I with all my heart, beg to second this Motion, and I will hope my noble and gallant Friend the Secretary of the Admiralty, will have the grace and wisdom to accede to it.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he quite agreed with his hon. and gallant
 1919 1920 pari passu pari passu s
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : I wish my right hon. Friend to think that I included him amongst the number.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  explained, that he had not said the order was ambiguously worded, but that the officers considered it was so. He thought himself that the order was clear; he could not assent to the opinion that it was ambiguous.
 LORD HARRY VANE  said, he rose to express a hope that his hon. Friend would be induced to withdraw his Resolution. The right hon. Secretary for War had, as he understood, assented substantially to its general principle. The right hon. Gentleman had given them a philosophical treatise on the system of acquiring territory adopted by America and by England. The truth was, they followed no settled plan in regard to the erection of fortifications in our various colonies. The right hon. Baronet had stated that it was not the intention of the Government to propose a grant of additional sums for erecting fresh fortifications, or making a larger expenditure than that now in existence. He (Lord Harry Vane) was very glad to hear that promise made, for it seemed to be extremely doubtful whether the fortifications of the Mauritius was desirable. He agreed with the right hon. Baronet that it was impossible to lay down any abstract rule to be invariably pursued with respect to the defence of our colonial possessions, but in the event of war they must defend their possessions against any enemy.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, be thought if the concession were made a financial question, as the noble Lord the
 1922
 MR. A. MILLS  said, that the Resolution was nearly identical with one arrived at by a Select Committee of the house of commons, and founded upon the evidence of the late Lord Herbert and other distinguished men. As the hon. Member (Mr. Baxter) had, however, succeeded in eliciting a distinct disclaimer from the Secretary at War of the intention of the Government to lay out large sums of money upon these fortifications, he (Mr. A. Mills) thought that the object of the Resolution was sufficiently attained, and he would therefore advise the hon. Member to withdraw his Motion.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, the pilotage of St. Ives was far better served although there were no Trinity pilots, than that of Penzance, where there were Trinity pilots. He strongly objected to merchants being compelled to employ pilots under all circumstances. He would like to see the means established of settling salvage questions on the spot.
 MR. ADDERLEY  explained, that he had quoted the hon. Gentleman's own words when he said that no thanks were due to the country for sending troops to Canada.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he confessed that he was unable to coincide with all the observations of the right hon. Gentleman, and especially with that in which he had alluded to the United States and to
 1912 1913 1914
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he had no doubt the right hon. Gentleman had correctly stated what bad been his intention); but the real question was this—what was the natural, fair, and ordinary interpretation of the Order in Council, and in what sense was it accepted by those it affected? Now, they had the opinion of one of Her Majesty's counsel that if the order could be submitted to a court of law, its decision would be in favour of the officers; that such would be the decision on a contract between man and man drawn in the language of the order. They also had for that the high authority of a noble and learned Lord in another place to the same effect. The noble Lord admitted that the order in Council, if not ambiguous, was not as clear as could be desired, and if there were a doubt likely to lead to injustice, it was easy to modify the order in Council, or to issue a new order. Common justice and equity required that the construction should he put upon it which was contended for by these officers.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he wished to express his concurrence in the opinion that it was extremely desirable to establish an international "rule of the road," but he would at the same time warn the Government against the adoption of any theories on the subject which could not be conveniently carried out in practice. He hoped his right hon. Friend would take care that the captain of a ship should not again be placed in the position he was placed in by the Act of 1855, by which he was compelled either to run the risk of losing his vessel, or run the risk of forfeiting his insurance by acting in direct antagonism to an Act of Parliament. So far as the question of compulsory pilotage was concerned, he would observe that it seemed to him an unfair state of the law that all vessels carrying a compulsory pilot and doing injury to other vessels should be exempt from all liability on that account. He did not ask that every man should be allowed to act as a pilot, but that every man on the sea-coast who could show after an exami-
 1936
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he rose to second the Resolution. The first part of it was word for word a repetition of a passage in the Report of the Select Committee, whilst the second was taken from the language of the late Lord Herbert; and the only objection which he conceived could he raised was that it was unnecessary, as in point of fact no Ministry would carry out any different policy from that pointed out in the Motion. He would, however, venture to say a few words in its support in a colonial point of view. Speaking especially of the colonies referred to in the second part of the Resolution, he would remind the House that it was not dealing with colonies governed as they used to be; and though it would be well for the War Office and Colonial Office to lay down such principles as were embodied in the Resolution, yet it would be far more satisfactory to the colonies having a free form of government, if the adoption of those principles were the act of the British House of Commons. The adoption of that course would be most likely to attain the end which this country had in view, and he would upon that ground strongly urge the House to adopt the Resolution. In the case of some of the less wealthy and thinly-populated colonies, no doubt the paucity of the means at their disposal rendered it expedient that the proposal should be gradually applied; but there was, it was very clear, a disposition among them to act on the principle which had been pointed out, if the path in that direction were only distinctly laid down.
 MR. WHITESIDE : I wish to call attention to the facts proved on the recent trial in Dublin of Hamilton Conolly, a clerk in the Ordnance Department, and of John M'Ilvaine, a contractor with the Government; and to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, or the Secretary to the Treasury, to explain in what manner the Ordnance Accounts are kept and audited, which allowed the proceedings by the parties convicted at such trial; and whether any and what changes have been effected in the mode of keeping the Public Accounts calculated to prevent a repetition thereof? These two persons were tried for conspiracy. The one, Hamilton Conolly, was a clerk in the Ordnance Department, drawing a very respectable salary, and bearing, of course, a good character. The other, John M'Ilvaine, was a contractor with the Government, and, according to the evidence of several witnesses who were called on his side, one of the most respectable men that ever lived. The frauds for which they were brought to trial and convicted were committed in the following manner:—It appears that when a contract is made in Ireland—say, for the repair of barracks—the estimate is considered and the prices are fixed in a most methodical manner. When the work is done, it is carefully examined. The head of the department in Dublin, Colonel Durnford, an officer of Engineers, and, I need hardly gay, a man of unexceptionable character, retains a facsimile of the Account, and gives the counterpart to one of the clerks to forward to the Ordnance Department in London. Conolly availed himself of this practice to alter the account before sending it away. Sometimes he inserted £300 or £400, or sometimes £500 extra. The account which bore Colonel Durnford's signature was next examined by a number of very able gentlemen in London. When, however, they were satisfied of the correctness of the account, they did not communicate with Colonel Durnford or any of the officials in Ireland, but sent a check direct to the contractor. In this case the contractor, M'Ilvaine, was in collusion with
 1926 s s. d s s s s s s 1927
 MR. J. C. EWART  expressed his approval of the proposition to charge a uniform amount of £ 15 per ton in the cases referred to by the President of the Board of Trade. He also thought that, as a whole, the measure was satisfactory.
 MR. INGHAM  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If he will lay upon the table of the House a copy of the Commission recently issued to inquire as to certain classes of Mines?
 MR. WHITBREAD  said, that there were three points which required to be borne in mind by the House in dealing with the subject. The first was, that in 1851, when these officers were placed upon the Reserved List, they got a step in rank and a large increase over what would be their normal half-pay for the next eight or ten years if they had gone on in their ordinary course. The next point was, he could not understand how they could expect to rise on that list of half-pay  pari passu
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the Merchant Shipping Act (1864), the Merchant Shipping Act Amendment Act (1855), and the Customs Consolidation Act (1853). The object of the Bill was to give effect to some of the recommendations of the Merchant Shipping Committee, and to amend the Acts he had mentioned, so as to meet the various requirements of the shipping interest, and to remedy those defects which experience had shown existed in the Merchant Shipping Act of 1864. The first material provision contained in the Bill was a proposal to extend to engineers the same system of certificates of competency and service which were now granted by captains and mates of foreign-going merchant ships and home-trade passenger ships. That system had worked extremely well, and it was intended to give to the Marine Boards and Board of Trade power to deal with those certificates upon charges of misconduct. When the Merchant Shipping Bill was passed various classes of vessels had claimed to be exempted from its operations. They did not desire to be subjected to the discipline clauses of the Merchant Shipping Act; consequently the masters and crews of such vessels had not had the advantage of that summary proceeding, one against the other, which masters and crews enjoyed under the discipline clauses of that Act. At the request of those various exempted classes of ships, the discipline
 1932 1933 1934 1935
 MR. HALIBURTON  said, he would not attempt to go over the ground which had been so fully trodden by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for War, in the opinions so well expressed by whom he quite concurred. Indeed, he should not have trespassed upon the patience of the House had he not felt
 1915 "That the multiplication of fortified places in distant possessions involves a useless expenditure, and that the cost of maintaining fortifications at places not being great naval stations, in self-governed colonies, is not a proper charge on the Imperial Treasury." 1916
 MR. HALIBURTON  was understood to deny ever having used those words.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would remind the hon. Gentleman that a decision having already been taken upon the question that the Speaker should leave the chair, his Resolution could not be entertained, according to the forms of the House; but that was no reason why an explanation of the points on which the hon. Member desired to be informed, should be refused. The
 1930 1931
 MR. BAXTER  said, that it would be in the recollection of the House, that rather more than a fortnight previously his hon. Friend, the Member for Taunton (Mr. A. Mills) called their attention to the Report of the Select Committee which sat last year on the subject of Colonial Military Expenditure, and on that occasion his hon. Friend moved a Resolution that the colonies should provide for their own inter-
 1895 1896 "That the multiplication of fortified places, and the erection of fortifications in distant colonial possessions, such as Mauritius, on a scale requiring for their defencea far greater number of men than could be spared for them in the event of war, involve a useless expenditure, and fail to provide an efficient protection for places the defence of which mainly depends on superiority at sea." "That the tendency of modern warfare is to strike blows at the heart of a hostile Power, and that it is therefore desirable to concentrate the troops required for the defence of the United Kingdom as much as possible, and to trust mainly to naval supremacy for securing against foreign aggression the distant dependencies of the Empire." 1897 "It has been stated by some witnesses that in the Bahamas we have spent since the general peace two millions of money, and that we have never kept up a force there sufficient to resist
 1898 "All I can say is, that if I were asked to do it, I should not do it." "It is stated in your memorandum that it was proposed to expend £ 85,000 on the works at New Providence, in the Bahamas?" "I presume we have not come to the end of our expenses with respect to the fortifications of Bermuda?" "Has there been any Report with respect to the further fortifications which may be necessary for Bermuda?—We have full Reports now, but we have to make out the estimates before we come to a decision as to what part of the Report we shall adopt." "But in any view of the case, the expense of those fortifications will be very considerable?—It will be, I dare say, £ 200,000 or £ 300,000." "I am not in favour of a very extensive system of fortifications for the Mauritius. The Mauritius must in the long run depend upon the fleet; and although I think it important that we should have a certain amount of fortification to enable the troops we maintain there to hold their position until relieved by a fleet, still I should be sorry to see fortifications carried too far, because I should look upon them then rather as a source of danger than as a protection to the colony." "To spend money upon the Mauritius so as to be able to defend it against an enemy superior to us upon the sea, seems to me a great waste of money." "We have evidence before us from Sir John Burgoyne, the chief authority among engineers,
 1899 "With regard to the question of Corfu, there, and there alone, we have extensive fortifications, of a class that are termed defensible; but although they are termed defensible, I am extremely sceptical as to the question whether they can be defended." "With respect to the fortifications of Corfu, I confess it appears to me, without presuming to give an authoritative opinion, that there must be the greatest difficulties arising out of the possession of these fortifications, in the event of a war." "Earl Grey, who has given evidence before this Committee, said, 'The experience we have had of the past seems to me to lead to the conclusion that almost the whole of the money we have spent upon colonial fortifications has been so much absolutely wasted; and that with respect to many of those fortifications erected at great expense,
 1900 "I think that many of our colonial fortifications might be destroyed with great advatage." "What is your general opinion as to the expenditure upon such fortifications as are necessary in colonies; is that a charge properly falling upon the British Treasury?—I am against them altogether. You allude to such as the Bahamas. "I exclude simply Imperial fortresses, and refer to such fortifications as are necessary in harbours, or at seats of government of colonies, properly so called?" 1901 To leave out from the word "That" to the end of the Question, in order to add the words "in the opinion of this House, the multiplication of fortified places in distant Possessions involves a useless expenditure; and that the cost of erecting and maintaining Fortifications at places not being great Naval Stations, in self-governed Colonies, is not a proper charge on the Imperial Treasury,"
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, he rose to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If any and what steps have been taken, or are intended to be taken, by the Government, for carrying into effect the prayer of the Memorial presented to the Lord Lieutenant on the 10th May, 1861, relative to the planting of ornamental and other trees and shrubs, and the making of walks and pleasure-grounds, in the Phœnix Park, Dublin, as has been done in Kensington Gardens and in the Victoria and Battersea Parks?
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said he could not allow the discussion to close without giving some information to the House that might assist it in coming to a decision. The right hon. baronet (Sir J. Pakington) assumed that he (Sir F. Baring) had not intended by the order to interfere with the just rights of any officers. With that he quite concurred; but, at the same time, when the meaning of a public document was to be ascertained, it was not unusually thought worth while to refer to those who framed it. He quite admitted, that if a promise had been made by the order, though against his intention, such a promise ought to be performed; but he denied entirely that by the wording of the document a promise was conveyed in any shape whatever. As to the legal opinion of its construction, unless a lawyer knew all the facts of the case, and all the details and circumstances that might affect the warrant, it was impossible for him to give a fair account of its meaning. He must state to the House that by the Order in Council he intended to deal with two classes of captains. A certain number of old captains he promoted, but with no intention of giving them any further advantage than the promotion they so received, and at the time very gladly received, without any condition or persuasion on his part. The other class of officers were commanders promoted to the rank of captain, and removed from the active to the reserved list. To these officers it was his intention to retain all the advantages they had before they were so transferred. All that was done for them was to remove them from one list to the other. The plan was fully stated in the  Navy List, "While my Lords have recommended the abandonment of the system of brevet promotion in future, they are nevertheless desirous of meet-
 1923
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he could not concur with the hon. Member (Mr. A. Mills) that the Resolution was nearly identical with that of the Committee to which he had referred. There were, in fact, very essential points of difference between them.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that Commission did not at all refer to collieries, ironstone mines, or mines which were now the subject of inspection. He had no objection to lay a copy on the table if the hon. Gentleman would move for it.
 SIR HENRY LEEKE  said, he thought the time had arrived when justice should be done these officers if they had right on their side. They asked to be put on the same footing of equality with brethren by whose side they had stood for many years. The sum required to effect that object was not more than £2,000 a year, and he would recommend that a mixed Committee, consisting of two generals, two admirals, and two civilians, all Members of the House, be appointed to settle the matter in dispute.
 SIR HENRY STRACEY  said, he was glad to find that some of the improvements in favour of which he had more than once spoken were about to be carried out. He hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would not have before his eyes the fear of the High Court of Admiralty, but would increase the power of local magistrates with respect to ownership and salvage when those claims were of small amount. When they were only to the extent of £200 they could now be adjudicated upon locally; but, unfortunately, they were generally above that amount, and had therefore to be taken to the High Court of Admiralty, whereby much useless expense was often incurred.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty whether it was intended to continue to withhold from the Captains on the Reserved List the pay to which they were entitled under the Order in Council of 1851, and to move for an Address to Her Majesty to take into con-
 1917 1918 s s d
 SIR JOHN HAY  explained, that he had not intended to say that the right hon. Member for Portsmouth, for whom he entertained the greatest respect, had cajoled these officers, but that they had been cajoled by the wording of the Order in Council.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he was glad to hear the explanation just given by
 1921
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, in that case he fully agreed with his noble Friend. He repeated he believed that the right hon. Gentleman (Sir F. Baring) was incapable of cajoling the officers of the navy, and it was satisfactory to find that the hon. and gallant Gentleman did not intend to make the imputation which his words seemed to convey. The question was as to the construction of an Order in Council which was ambiguous and badly worded. On the last occasion when it was brought forward the right hon. Gentleman declared that it was not his intention that these officers should have the benefits which they sought; but in a spirit of great generosity he distinctly stated that he should be glad if the Admiralty could see their way to make the concession. As to what the intentions of the right hon. Gentleman might have been, it was most dangerous to construe any public document by considering what were the intentions of the Minister who proposed it. The right hon. Gentleman might have lost his seat for Portsmouth, in which case he would have been unable to tell the House what he intended. The only safe rule was to consider what the Order in Council itself expressed. Having studied the Order in Council, he not only found it ambiguous, but he was supported by high legal authority in stating that its fair construction was favourable to the officers who were now seeking this benefit. That being so, it was with great regret that he heard his noble Friend, who was himself a distinguished sailor, opposing the claims of these officers. In point of amount the concession would involve but a small matter. The officers asked for that concession, and he doubted whether it was worth while to go on year after year contending against a claim that had a legal opinion in its favour. He should be glad to hear, if there was any doubt on the subject, that the Government would give the officers the benefit of it.
 SIR MICHAEL SEYMOUR  said, that as a naval officer, sympathizing with men who believed that their claims were founded in justice, be should support the hon. and gallant Officer if be went to a division. 1924
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  in reply said, that that subject had been under the consideration of the Irish Government, and they had given their sanction to a plan for the improvement of Phœnix Park, by planting it with ornamental and other trees; but the question was still under the consideration of the Treasury.
 MR. CAVE  said, the points mooted in the hon. Member for Montrose's speech appeared to be of a twofold nature—the distribution of the expenditure for necessary works, and the formation of works which, in his opinion, were unnecessary. These were clear and distinct issues. The first appeared to be the same as that lately raised by the hon. Member for Taunton, and would lead to a renewal of the debate which took place on that occasion. He would avoid as much as possible ground already trodden. There was an important consideration, which was too much lost sight of—namely, the fund from which colonial contributions were to be derived. The House knew that in young and thinly-peopled countries direct taxation to any great degree was impossible, and that the larger portion of the revenue must be raised by import duties. Now, complaints had lately been made of the high import duties levied in Canada, which were detrimental, it was said, to our manufacturing interests. But it was argued in Canada, that if the mother country insisted upon larger contributions from Canada towards her military expenses, she could no longer object to those duties from which the funds must come; nor, indeed, to differential duties, or the introduction of favoured nation clauses into their Customs Acts—thus pointing to a disability incurred by the connection with the mother country which was often much felt in the colonies. He confessed to regarding with much distaste the habit which seemed periodical in this country, of looking too closely into the money cost of our dependencies. Without going into the general advantages of colonies, or what he, thought Lord Overstone called the actual money value of the reputation of power given by extended empire, he would set against this cost the trade, which was far greater per head with our colonies than it would be if they were independent, and far less liable to interruption. The instance of the United States proved both these propositions. He would point to the effect of that trade, especially of late years, in raising the value of property and the rate of wages in the mother country, and thus contributing in a great degree to her marvellous prosperity. To pass to the second point of the hon. Member's speech. With regard to the Ionian Islands and the Bahamas, he was disposed to concur with him. In the latter
 1903 "The Isle of France was to the French what the Cape was to the Dutch—a military and naval station of the greatest possible importance. These two stations formed the military chain of the great Indian navigation." 1904 "The point is now conceded that the neutral flag shall protect all the property it covers; and the consequence of that is, that the moment war breaks out, the flags of the belligerent Powers will be almost abolished from the sea, and all trade will be carried on under neutral flags. We cannot expect to have, as in old times, enormous convoys of British merchantmen sailing at an immense expense under the protection of powerful fleets, when the same cargoes may be brought in Bremen or other neutral ships at peace charges. We must be prepared, when another war takes place, to see the whole commerce of the country carried on under a neutral flag, and therefore it is not of the same importance as formerly to take places which may be retreats of privateers and hold them against an enemy." 1905 "Hoc Ithacus velit, et magni mercentur Atridæ."
 MR. CAVE  said, that while, in some respects, the Bill did not go as far as a former measure, he thought it would be received with general favour by the shipping interest, and he did not agree with the hon. Member for Norfolk's remarks on compulsory pilotage. He was glad also to find that the right hon. Gentleman had made up his mind at length to grapple with the question of landing cargoes, which had been so long delayed; and though he told them he had not gone quite so far as in a former measure, perhaps in Committee they might be able to induce him to do so.
 MR. ADAMS  said, he thought there were exceptional circumstances in connection with the Bill which should induce the House to allow it to be resuscitated. He trusted, therefore, that the House would not allow a question of technical detail to override the real justice of the case. The Bill was intended to confer a real benefit on the district over which it was proposed the line should traverse.
 MR. HENLEY  defended the course adopted by the Standing Orders Committee, which he thought under the circumstances was the only one open to them.
 MR. PEEL  said, it was in contemplation to have an office in the Exhibition for giving information with regard to the means of transit in this country and between this country and abroad; but the office was in no respect in connection with the Post Office, and there had been no correspondence on the subject with the Treasury. What had occurred with reference to the Post Office was this, the Inspector General of Mails, Mr. Page, being the author of the suggestion, and having brought it before the Commissioners, had been requested, and, with the sanction of the Post Office, had undertaken to organize the department, which in all other respects was a private undertaking.
 MR. GREGORY  said, that before Mr. Speaker left the chair he wished to take that opportunity of bringing under the consideration of his right hon. Friend the Secretary for Ireland a matter of considerable importance as regarded the administration of the Poor Law in Ireland. As notice had been given that the Poor Relief Bill was to be discussed that evening, there was a large attendance of Irish Members, many of whom had been chairmen or members of boards of guardians in Ireland, and he might appeal to them whether the maintenance of the central authority—namely, the Commission—was not of the greatest importance to the carrying out of the Poor Law. That being so, it was their duty to do all in their power to prevent any collision between that authority and the guardians. But there was one stumbling-block of offence and cause of dissension which every body who was conversant with the administration of the Poor Law in Ireland must be aware of—namely, the mode in which Roman Catholic chaplains were dismissed from their appointments. He was not going to offer any opinion as to the course pursued by the Commission in dealing with the chaplains. No doubt, in a great number of instances the Commissioners were right and the chaplains were in error. On the other hand, it was a notable fact that in the last session of Parliament the House of Commons declared that in one instance a Roman Catholic chaplain was in the right and the Commissioners were decidedly in the wrong. His object was, if possible, to remove a cause of dissatisfaction, and the removal of which, he believed, would render the working of the Poor Law infinitely more satisfactory in Ireland. Fortunately, that cause of offence might be taken away without the slightest sacrifice of principle. He would propose that on all occasions when a Roman Catholic chaplain was to be remonstrated with or dismissed, a communication should be made in the first instance to the spiritual authority by whom he had been virtually appointed. Every body acquainted with the discipline of the Roman Catholic Church must know that no chaplain
 1959 ultima ratio
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that he was anxious, seeing the right hon. Gentleman the chairman of the Select Committee which sat last year on the administration of the Irish Poor Law (Mr. Cardwell) in his place, to ask him for some explanation of the circumstance, that while the Committee had given a very voluminous blue-book and a short report, it had wholly omitted any mention of or explanation of a most extraordinary phenomenon attending Poor Law legislation. That phenome-
 1960
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the question brought before the House by the hon. Member for Galway was one of the most serious character and importance. It had been put to a Member of the Government who was responsible for the due administration of the law in Ireland, in such a manner that the public, if not the right hon. Baronet, the Chief Secretary for Ireland, might naturally assume that the authority of the House was in favour of the principle urged by the hon. Gentleman who made the suggestion, if the matter were passed over in silence and no objection were raised. Now, what the hon. Member for Galway asked the House to recognise was the authority by which the Roman Catholic bishops stated that they felt bound, inasmuch as they stated that they were bound by oath to the head of their Church to refuse their assent to the removal of any chaplain of any poorhouse who had not incurred the censure of his spiritual superior. He did not think that the House would be prepared to go to such a length as to admit that the legal appointments of chaplains to workhouses in Ireland made under the authority of the Crown should be subject to the authority imported into these dominions by a foreign power. Let it be mentioned, to the honour of several Roman Catholic bishops in Ireland, that they resisted that foreign authority until Legate Cullen arrived in Ireland, as the plenary representative of that authority, and arrogated to himself, after convening a Synod which was his mere instrument, the right of interfering with the constituted authorities of the Queen. These prelates paid due allegiance to the Sovereign of these realms. No formal and public attempt had previous to the Synod of Thurles been made directly from Rome to supersede the legal authority of this country. He trusted that the right hon. Gentleman, in his reply to the question put to him, would manifest every disposition to treat the Roman Catholic bishops in Ireland with all courtesy and deference due to
 1961
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that in reply to the hon. Member for the King's County he had to state that the Committee had not, perhaps, been of opinion that it was a reproach to the Poor Law when it did not extend to a particular amount of population, or, on the other hand, they might have thought that it was a recommendation of the Poor Law when it did not extend to a large proportion of the population. But the Committee did not think it was necessary to enter into that part of the subject after it had been recently discussed in Parliament and in the Report of the Poor Law Commissioners. That part of the subject was only the preamble to a conclusion, and the point on which the Committee had to arrive at a conclusion was whether the Poor Law now in force in Ireland was in such a state that important changes ought to be made in it, and whether larger powers should be given for granting out-door relief. If the hon. Gentleman should be of opinion that the Committee had failed to give due attention to the subject, or if he supposed that the House was not fully possessed of the opinions of the Committee, the best answer was to refer him to their resolutions, the first of which stated that the present powers possessed by the guardians for granting in-door and out-door relief were sufficient, and that an alteration of the statute was neither necessary nor desirable. The second resolution was that the administration of the Poor Law guardians had been such as to justify Parliament in conferring the powers upon them which they possessed, and that it was not expedient to give to the Commissioners or to any other authority compulsory power to control them in the exercise of their discretion. The hon. Member was entitled to differ from the opinion expressed by the Committee on the subject of the Poor Law in Ireland, but he was not at liberty to assume that the Committee had not most plainly given to the House all the information which they obtained in reference
 1962
 MR. BRADY  observed, that he could not understand the conclusion to which the Committee had come, when the fact was apparent that in England only 16 per cent of the children of the poor received in-door relief, while in Ireland the proportion was 27 per cent. It was also notorious that mortality amongst the children in the workhouses in Ireland was something extraordinary, as compared with what it was in England. He was sorry that the system of poor relief in Ireland should be different to that followed in England. If out-door relief were permitted in Ireland, the cost of each pauper would be very considerably less than at present.
 MR. BAGWELL  said, the Bill of the right hon. Baronet had been circulated throughout Ireland, and had been carefully considered. The first clause had received the general approval of the ratepayers in towns, who were suffering from a continual influx of poor from the rural districts. The clause as originally printed would have been an improvement on the present law, but now it appeared that the right hon. Baronet intended to propose an Amendment which would completely alter the character of that clause. Such a proceeding seemed almost a breach of faith, and if the Amendment were persisted in, he would prefer the withdrawal of the Bill.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he thought that the details of the Bill might safely be left till the House went into Committee. There could be no doubt of the excellence of many of the clauses; but as the administration of the Poor Law depended upon the Poor Law Commission, it would be well before the Speaker left the chair to consider the constitution of that body. Of the three paid Commissioners two were importations from England, and both were of what was termed the "Reformed religion," while the third, the medical commissioner appointed in 1851, although an Irishman, also professed the Protestant faith. He did not complain of that, but in dealing with a country like Ireland he thought the House would agree with him that at least one member of the Commission ought to be acquainted with the feelings of that Roman Catholic population who formed nine-tenths of the recipients. In 1848, when the Board of Charitable Bequests was formed, one-half of the members were Roman Catholics, and that was a good example to follow in a country
 1963
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, the hon. Member for Galway (Mr. Gregory) had asked, in reference to the Roman Catholic chaplains in workhouses, that the Roman Catholic bishop should be communicated with before their removal in any cases of misconduct. Now, in his experience, he had not found that great dissatisfaction existed on that score. He should wish to pay every respect to the religion of the great majority of the Irish people, but he did not think it implied any disrespect that the Commissioners should act towards Roman Catholics exactly as they acted towards Protestant chaplains. Protestant chaplains were removed without reference to the Protestant bishop, and no complaint had been addressed to the Government on that account. He must, therefore, beg respectfully to decline to accede to the proposal of the hon. Member. 1964 personnel 1965
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he rejoiced that the question had been raised by a Protestant Member of that House, because if a Roman Catholic had done so, it might have been said that it was all owing to bigotry. The right hon. Baronet was quite wrong when he spoke of the question as not worth raising. If the right hon. Gentleman had known what had transpired before the Committee of last year, over which the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster (Mr. Cardwell) had presided with so much fairness and ability, he would he of a very different opinion. The Roman Catholic bishops, priests, and laymen who had been examined before that Committee were unanimous that there was a strong feeling of dissatisfaction in Ireland upon the subject. In the first place, nothing could be more unsatisfactory than that a law which dealt with so large a proportion of the people should be administered by men who were necessarily ignorant of matters on which the people felt a deep interest, who had no sympathy with the people's feelings, and who charged them with bigotry when they were merely asserting principles which they might consider sacred. He confessed that, as a Roman Catholic, he looked upon the administration of the Poor Laws by those gentlemen as a badge of slavery. [ Laughter
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he rose to order. The hon. Member had asserted
 1966
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he would ask whether he had been out of order. The right hon. Gentleman, who held so high an office, ought to have been better acquainted with the rules of the House, or ought to have consulted the Speaker. He would repeat what he had stated that the Commissioners had attemped to force into positions in the workhouse clergymen upon whom lay the ban of their bishops—it might not have been for a very weighty cause, but who were  pro tanto
 MR. O'BRIEN  said, that as a Roman Catholic Member of the House, he wished to disclaim all feelings of sectarianism in connection with this question. He thought, however, that if there were a Roman Catholic on the Board, many of those matters which had excited much odium and bad feeling throughout the country would never have occurred, because a little explanation given in private would have removed much cause of misunderstanding.
 SIR FREDERIC HEYGATE  said, that as he had known Mr. Senior for many years, he wished to defend him from the charges which had been made against him. Upon the formation of the Irish Poor Law Board, Mr. Senior, who had been already employed under the English Poor Law Board, was transferred to Ireland that he might give to that country the benefit of his great experience. During eleven or twelve years he travelled all over the country, and no man, of whatever politics or religion, who was brought into contact with Mr. Senior but must have acknowledged that he was a man of great fairness and ability. When a vacancy was caused by Mr. Ball's resignation, Mr. Senior, to the surprise of himself and his friends, was chosen to succeed, and it would be admitted that there was no more fair or honest officer. He could speak to the fact that the class of rate-payers who paid poor rates in Ireland were a very different class to those who paid such rates in England. There were many small farmers in Ireland in a struggling state, and who, by a slight ex-
 1967
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, that he did not suppose that any one desired to impugn the manner in which Mr. Senior discharged his duties; but he would suggest that, as a matter of feeling and a mark of respect to the great majority of the Irish people, there should be a Roman Catholic on the Poor Law Commission. It was desirable that the Government should take an early opportunity of showing that, on that point, they were not insensible to the feelings of the Roman Catholic prelates and people of Ireland.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, that he had understood the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland to tell the House, that the removal of Protestant chaplains could take place without the concurrence of the Protestant bishops, and he believed their appointment could also take place without the concurrence of the Protestant bishops.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that generally the chaplains must have the consent of the protestant bishop to their appointment. There must generally be a licence.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he believed the licence was sometimes dispensed with. But when the right hon. Baronet had argued from that that the appointment or removal of a Catholic priest could take place without the consent of his bishop, he had fallen into error. He (Sir. G. Bowyer) would state, for the information of the House, that such a a thing could not be done in the Roman Catholic Church, as a priest could not officiate in a workhouse without "faculties" from his bishop.
 COLONEL GREVILLE  said, that being acquainted with the feelings of the people of Ireland from a long residence there, he differed from the right hon. Baronet, who said that the matter was not worth much consideration. What would the people of England feel if the English Poor Law Board were composed of Irishmen and Catholics? He thought that the Irish people were entitled to have at least one Roman Catholic on the Poor Law Commission.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, he wished to ask whether it was desired that a Protestant Commissioner should be dismissed, in order to make room for a Roman Catholic, or that a Roman Catholic should be appointed as an additional Commissioner, or that, when a vacancy
 1968
 MR. WHALLEY  said, that the hon. and gallant Member for Longford (Colonel Greville) had asked whether there would be dissatisfaction in this country if the Poor Law Commission were exclusively composed of Irishmen and Roman Catholics. He (Mr. Whalley) would reply, that there would be no dissatisfaction. There would be no dissatisfaction with regard to the present question if the Roman Catholic bishops and archbishops had in view merely the religious education of the people, and there was not involved in it that system of canon law which left nothing at rest, either social or political, in any country. [ Cries of Cries of 1969 Laughter Mansard,
 LORD NAAS  said, he wished to say a few words on the subject which had—but he thought not very wisely—been broached by the hon. and gallant Member for Liskeard; although he would admit that the subject of the constitution of the Poor Law Commission had been a good deal discussed in Ireland during the last few months. When Mr. Senior was appointed, the selection was made for departmental, not sectarian, reasons. The question considered was simply who was the most experienced and efficient person that could be found to administer the Poor Law. Prior to the appointment numerous applications were made from political friends to the then Government in favour of the claims of many gentlemen. The Earl of Eglinton, then Lord Lieutenant, disregarded all such applications, and appointed Mr. Senior, on the sole ground of official fitness, and on those grounds alone. He (Lord Naas) contended that it would be most injurious to the public service, as well as most unfair to Mr. Senior himself, to pass over his claims on the ground that he was a Pro-
 1970
 SIR GEORGE GREY  thought that the noble Lord had completely vindicated the Government of which he was a Member, supposing that any charge had been brought against them for appointing Mr. Senior; but he (Sir George Grey) did not understand his hon. Friend the Member for Liskeard (Mr. Bernal Osborne) as at all objecting to the appointment of Mr. Senior. The noble Lord had laid down the rule which ought to govern those official appointments—namely, that of official fitness. When the Poor Law was about to be introduced into Ireland, gentlemen who were perfectly familiar with the law in this country were sent over there with a view to bring it into operation in that country. Mr. Power was one of those gentlemen; and he (Sir George Grey) could testify that it had been Mr. Power's desire to discharge his duties with the most perfect impartiality in all respects, and in
 1971
 THE O'CONNOR DON  said, the hon. Member for Galway did not wish that the Roman Catholic bishops should have the power of dismissing or continuing in their offices Roman Catholic chaplains who might be complained of by the Commissioners. He merely desired that, before proceeding to extreme measures, the Commissioners should communicate with the ecclesiastical superiors of the offending chaplains, in order that disagreeable circumstances might be prevented from arising. If the bishop should refuse to accede to their wishes, then, of course, the Commissioners would be at liberty to follow their own course, as at present.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that he had several Amendments to propose in the clause, and although they did not alter its spirit or terms, yet for clearness' sake he had drawn up a new one, which would, he thought, better express his intentions. He would, therefore, propose that the first clause should be postponed till the other clauses of the Bill had been gone through.
 LORD NAAS  said, he hoped they would have an opportunity of considering the new clause in Committee.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : Certainly.
 MR. LONGFIELD  and other Members were of opinion, that as the first clause was one of the most important in the Bill, it would be better to discuss it then, as they were prepared to do.
 The CHAIRMAN  said, that it being a new clause, it must be brought up after the other clauses had been considered.
 MR. CORRY  said, he wished to propose the insertion of words, the effect of which would be to preserve those useful institutions, county infirmaries, in their present  status Geo
 MR. GREGORY  said, he should oppose the Amendment, as he feared its operation would be to make the entire county pay for institutions which only a few of the population of the county comparatively could avail themselves of.
 CAPTAIN DAWSON  expressed his intention to support the Amendment. Great care should be taken in bringing within
 1973
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he could not consent to the Amendment, which would render the clause quite impracticable. The object of the clause was to afford to the poor residing in distant parts of counties the means of obtaining medical and surgical assistance. It had been founded upon a recommendation of the Committee of last year, and it was one of the most important provisions in the Bill. If the Amendment was carried, there would be, in addition to an hospital in every union, an infirmary, for which the whole county would have to pay, while its benefits would be mainly restricted to the population resident in the immediate neighbourhood, it being found that 80 per cent of the patients treated in the infirmaries were resident within a radius of ten miles. According to the present law, £1,400 a year might be voted for each infirmary. The total sum paid by presentments was £24,255. The country at large paid over £24,000 a year for institutions which only provided in the whole 1,689 beds. The distribution also was unequal, for Galway, with a population of 315,000, had only 50 beds in the county infirmaries; while Carlow, with 68,000 inhabitants, had 40 beds, These facts proved that some alteration in the law was requisite, and he thought that the clause as now proposed would be found a beneficial provision for the destitute poor.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, he feared that workhouse hospitals and county infirmaries could not exist together, and it was for the Committee to choose between them.
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, he did not doubt that the effect of the clause would be to diminish subscriptions to the county infirmaries, and that ultimately those institutions would disappear, but he thought that the destitute poor would be gainers, because more convenient and better institutions would be provided. He would suggest the adoption of an Amendment which would recognise the existing infirmaries, and also provide that as they died out the act should come into effect.
 MR. MACDONOGH  said, he would have preferred the total rejection of the clause. He thought the right hon. Baronet was in error in stating that the clause was based upon the recommendation of the Commit-
 1974 Vict 1975
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, if the county infirmaries were animated beings, and could be brought in bodily presence to that House, they would be ashamed of the character given of them by the hon. and learned Gentleman. Now, he (Mr. Maguire) would give a description of one of those magnificent establishments in the county of Cork. The population of that county in 1841 was 830,000, but by the last Census it was only 550,000. For the last five or six years there was a wretched but on the roadside of Mallow which was dignified by the title of an infirmary. That grand establishment had fifteen beds to accommodate the whole population around, them. He believed in its best days it had never more than twenty beds. He thought that the hon. Member for Cork had rendered a great service by proposing to do away with that miserable humbug of a county infirmary in Mallow, and in obtaining the assent of the grand jury for the erection of an hospital in Cork, with at least 150 beds. He thought that the clause under consideration was one of the best provisions of the Bill, and was dictated, not only by expediency, but by the best feelings of humanity. By the existing law, if a poor man fell sick, and his disease was not infectious, he could not obtain admittance into the hospital unless every member of his family consented to enter the workhouse. Could anything more inhuman be perpetrated under the cover of giving relief? He repeated the clause was the most valuable clause in the Bill, and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would be firm in resisting its exclusion.
 MR. BLAKE  observed, that he concurred in thinking the clause one of the most important in the Bill.
 LORD NAAS  said, he objected to the principle of the clause, which for the first time applied a tax levied for the relief of the destitute to another purpose. It was true that in many counties the county infirmaries did not effect as much good as they ought to do; but the reason was, because of late years an opinion had prevailed that the Government were about to discontinue the aid given to them, and through the medium of the Poor Law
 1976
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, he should have voted in favour of the clause but for the observations which had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Sir R. Peel); but having heard those observations, which he considered a death warrant to county infirmaries he could no longer retain the favourable impression the clause at first had made upon him. The county infirmaries Were the most valuable class of institutions in existence, and the clause was evidently intended to compass, in course of time, their entire abolition. He should therefore oppose the clause; but he was also opposed to the Amendment, because it did not in his opinion sufficiently relieve the clause from the objections which he felt existed to its adoption.
 MR. CARD WELL  said, that the object of the clause was to extend the utility of the workhouse hospitals to a most urgent class of cases, and to give relief in those instances in which the present system of out-door relief was not sufficient, as administered under the Medical Charities Act. The clause ought not to be rejected. It was proposed in no spirit adverse to the county infirmaries; and the aid it extended was of a kind not liable to the same abuses as other descriptions of relief from the poor rates. He thought that the Amendment which had been proposed would not assist the county infirmaries.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he should support the Amendment. The consequence of the Bill would be that the Government would next year introduce a short measure to levy fresh sums of money from the counties to defray the expense of that novel plan. Did the new plan, he would ask, apply to England, and were poor persons in this country called destitute persons? According to the definition given, poor persons were translated into destitute persons. The real meaning of the clause was—first, to translate the word "destitute" into "poor;" next, to increase the expense of the Poor Law administration; and, finally, to destroy the county infirmaries.
 MR. O'BRIEN  said, he must deny that
 1977
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, that the destitute poor were already amply provided for, and the question at issue really was, whether the whole system of poor relief in Ireland was to be changed; and whether the same medical relief was to be extended to poor persons as to those who were destitute. The Government apparently meant by their proposal to make the hospitals the means or relieving all classes of suffering humanity, and he regarded the clause as a departure from the original purpose of the Poor Law. The experiment was perilous, and would lead to the destruction of the county infirmaries, introduce a system of centralization, and eventually involve the county in a large additional expenditure, It would also discourage that spirit of independence which induced the people to do anything rather than accept public aid, What would be the consequence of passing this clause? Why the Government would have to build new hospitals for this class of patients. No one had petitioned for such a change, nor did anything of this kind exist in England. Such a system would not be tolerated in a country where the people managed their own affairs. The poorhouses of Ireland were rapidly becoming little more than lying-in institutions. Let the House pass this Bill, and the only check upon the unlimited increase of such cases would be removed.
 MR. M'CANN  said, he did not believe that the Bill would have the effect of abolishing the county hospitals of Ireland. He looked upon the extension of medical relief to the poor, as the greatest boon that could be conferred on the people of Ireland.
 CAPTAIN STACPOOLE  observed, that he entirely agreed with the hon. Member who had last addressed the Committee.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he would express a hope that there was no intention to do away with the infirmaries in Ireland. They had been of immense benefit to the country, and had been a means of raising the charac-
 1978
 MR. BRADY  said, he would admit that the county infirmaries had done great good in Ireland; but there were many cases in which those institutions did not meet the wants of the people. It was therefore the duty of the Committee to sustain and encourage the medical officers of the various unions.
 MR. COREY  said, he thought it would be more convenient to take the division upon the clause itself.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, he wished to move the insertion of the following words after the word "Ireland," in the 21st line:—
 "Provided also, that if such poor person deny his or her ability to pay the cost of his or her maintenance while in the hospital, or such portion of his or her maintenance as the guardians may demand, it shall be incumbent on the guardians, in seeking to recover the same, to bring satisfactory proof of suck poor person's ability to do so."
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he could not agree to the Amendment. It would be an extremely difficult thing for the guardians to bring satisfactory proof of a poor person's ability to pay the costs. He hoped the hon. Member would not persevere with his Amendment.
 MR. BRADY  said, he should support the Amendment. He could not understand the objection to it, as he thought the guardians could easily ascertain the circumstances of life of these poor persons.
 MR. O'BRIEN  remarked, that he thought that the Amendment was unnecessary.
 MR. M'CANN  said, he was of opinion that the matter might well be left to the guardians in each case.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  proposed the introduction of the word "domestic" into the clause, so as to make it include domestic servants.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he would propose to add, after "daily maintenance," the words, "and establishment charges." The constabulary ought to pay the entire cost connected with their medical treatment, and not merely a part of it.
 SIR HUGH. CAIRNS  said, he thought the object of the Amendment would be attained by the clause as it stood, as the word maintenance included establishment charges.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that it would be impossible to apportion the amount of the establishment charges; and therefore he could not agree to the Amendment.
 LORD NAAS  said, he believed there would be no difficulty in fixing a proportion of establishment charges payable on account of the class of patients referred to.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  observed, that inasmuch as there were no additional officers, no additional expense for warming and lighting, &c., he was at a loss to see on what ground an additional charge was to be made on the establishment.
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  said, he would not dispute the legal interpretation of the word "maintenance" with the hon. and learned Member for Belfast, but it was not understood in Ireland by those who had the carrying out of the law to include establishment charges.
 MR. DAWSON  said, he should support the Amendment.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he would suggest that, to remove all doubt upon the point, it should be distinctly provided that the latter words—which recurred in several other clauses—should be taken to embrace "establishment charges" as well as any others.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he would adopt that suggestion, if the right hon. Baronet, the Chief Secretary, would assent to it.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  thought the best plan would be to adopt the words "medi-
 1980
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he entertained doubts as to the equity of the proposal. It would be perfectly reasonable to pay for the maintenance of constabulary patients, but establishment charges were a fixed  quantum,
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, the Bill as it then stood, included the cases not only of constabulary patients, but of poor persons not destitute. According to the right hon. Gentleman's argument, those persons, however numerous, or however much they might swell the establishment charges of hospitals built out of the county-rates for the maintenance of the destitute poor, ought to defray none of the extra expenditure incurred on their account.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  observed, that his argument was not refuted by an extreme case. If the numbers were doubled by the admission of the police, so that the building had to be enlarged or the staff augmented, then the objection would apply; but as the charges under these heads remained fixed, it would be unreasonable to require repayment on account of them.
 COLONEL DUNNE  remarked, that it was the first time he had heard the Irish constabulary were under the protection of the Secretary at War. He would remind the Committee that the district which had the greatest number of paupers in it had to bear the greatest proportion of the establishment charges.
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, he thought the hon. and gallant Member was in error; the payment was made in proportion to the property valuation of each union.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, that taking into account the very moderate pay of the policemen, he was willing to make the cost of their relief during illness as light as possible.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he must press hon. Members to bear in mind that irresistible claims for increase of salary by all the existing officers of these establishments would inevitably attend the increase of business thrown upon the institutions.
 MR. CONOLLY  said, there was a distinction to be drawn between those who paid for relief and those who received it.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he wished to know whether the hon. and gallant Gentleman intended his Amendment to refer to the whole establishment charges, or solely to the hospital charges?
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he meant the whole charges of the establishment.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  suggested, that it should be left to the guardians to assess the average cost of relief.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, he hoped that the Committee would state their own intentions, and not impose the duty of interpreting them on the guardians.
 MR. BAGWELL  said, he would then propose the addition of the following proviso to the clause:—
 "Provided always that the medical officer of such union be paid for medical and surgical attendance by the constabulary authorities as if such attendance had been given out of the workhouse."
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he thought it impossible to adopt the Amendment, especially after the decision at which the Committee had just arrived.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, he would move as an Amendment the insertion of words providing that the register containing the names of those who had received relief without payment should be open to the inspection of such persons as desired to examine, or take extracts from it free of charge, and that a copy of the entries, under the seal of the guardians, should be legal evidence of the facts stated in it.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  would assent to the Amendment; but he would suggest that the hours for inspection should be specified.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  had no objection to the addition of the words "between the hours of ten and four o'clock."
 LORD NAAS  asked, whether the provision was meant to apply to paupers only, or to other persons as well?
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  replied, that it would apply to all classes of inmates.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, that it would be dangerous to extend the provision to persons not paupers, because the previous clauses had given power to recover the cost
 1982
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  assented to the Amendment of the hon. and learned Gentleman. The term "inmate" included the poor as well as the destitute.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, that the word "inmate" in the clause was rather indefinite. If the guardian sent a constable, for instance, from the workhouse to another hospital, there should be some means of recovering the coat to which the union would be thereby put.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, the amendment of the hon. Member would meet the difficulties of the case.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  observed, that the clause authorized the guardians to give up the child to any relative. He thought that such relative should not be allowed to have the child unless he took upon himself the maintenance.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, if a relative took a child out of a workhouse, he thereby became liable for its maintenance.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he thought words should be inserted to render such intention clear.
 MR. GREGORY  said, he would propose these words to meet the difficulty—
 "Any relative who in the opinion of the guardians is a fit person to be intrusted with the custody of the child and of sufficient ability to maintain it."
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he would print the Amendments which he proposed to introduce in the future clauses before the Committee on the Bill was resumed.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, it was not the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce any such measure as that referred to by the hon. Gentleman. The chief difficulties which had been encountered in the working of the Bill of last Session arose from the irregular attendance of three of the five London Commissioners. A Return would be shortly laid upon the table of the House, by which it would appear that one of those gentlemen had attended only thirteen times since the 11th of October, and that the two others attended only twice a week,
 1957
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, he thought it would be better to omit the clause.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, there were many precedents for giving the power to make such provisional orders; they were intended to obviate the expense of private Bills. Such an order was always embodied in a Bill, to be affirmed by Parliament, but it was not necessary for it to pass the preliminary ordeal of going before a Committee upstairs.
 MR. E. ELLICE  (St. Andrews) said, he objected to the clause on the ground that it gave extraordinary powers to the Board of Trade; by its provisional order the Board could supersede or virtually repeal an Act of Parliament. He should oppose the clause.
 MR. E. ELLICE  (St. Andrews) said, there was no doubt that such notice would not be given as would be sufficient for the parties interested.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  observed, that while the number flogged in the army was, is the hon. Gentleman correctly stated, 179 in 1860–1, it had amounted to 512 in 1859–60; so that a material change had taken place in that respect within a period of two years. That change, he added, was due to the Order in Council which had been issued in November, 1859, and which was to the effect that all persons entering the army were to be exempted from the punishment of flogging until they happened to have been degraded, by the commission of some serious offence, from the first, in which they were placed on their entrance, into the second class. He might further observe that, although a soldier might be reduced to the second class, he might, after a certain period of good conduct, be restored to the first class, in which case he would again become free from liability to the punishment of which the hon. Member complained. It was quite clear, from the figures he had quoted, that a material diminution in the number of men who were flogged had been the result of the change to which he referred. He might also state that the  maximum 1987
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the letters "B. C." stood for "bad character," and the object was, when a soldier had once been discharged for bad conduct, to prevent his being re-enlisted. The branding was not a painful operation. It used to be done with a hot iron, but the mark was now made with gunpowder.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether he has any objection to direct the Emigration Commissioners to report upon the expediency of establishing Depôts in the Ports of London, Liverpool, and elsewhere, for the reception of Emigrants awaiting embarkation?
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, the real objection to the clause was that the full notice required by the standing orders would not be given. He spoke from some experience of these things, and he could say that the only notice that would be given to repeal an act of Parliament, affect-
 1984 Gazette
 Mr. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, he would move the omission of the next clause, which provided that no harbour for pier shall be constructed below high water mark without the consent of the Woods and Forests. There had been many disputes lately between the Crown and private persons as to the property in the foreshores, and the clause seemed to be inserted in the Bill for no other purpose but quietly to establish a claim on behalf of the Crown.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether the Post Office authorities have undertaken to act as Agents in the International Exhibition for certain Railway Companies, for the issue of tickets, forwarding of parcels, and advising applicants as to the routes to be taken; and whether this had been done under the sanction of the Treasury?
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, that the rights of the Crown were saved already, by previous clauses in the Bill. The clause was unnecessary, and he should oppose its insertion.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he would move that the Chairman report progres; and, in order to justify himself in dividing the House on the last clause, he wished to state that last session a clause of the kind had been introduced, and between the passing of the bill and the Royal assent three suits were instituted by the Duchy of Cornwall against the
 1985
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, that the clause was not printed. He should be glad to know its meaning.
 MR. LAYARD : In reply, Sir, to my hon. Friend, I beg to say that the attention of Her Majesty's Government has been called to the capture of a vessel named the  Labuan 1958
 MAJOR CUMMING BRUCE  said, that after the opinions which had been expressed by various Members of the Standing Orders Committee, he did not feel justified in going to a division, and he would therefore withdraw the Motion.
 MAJOR CUMMING BRUCE  said, that he wished to move that leave be given to deposit a petition for a Bill upon this subject, pursuant to the prayer of the petition, upon which the Standing Orders Committee of the 14th of March had reported. He made the Motion on the grounds that the works proposed to be authorized would
 1954
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, that if the hon. Gentleman would address a letter to the Colonial Office, specifying the information he required, the noble Duke at the head of that Department would direct the Emigration Commissioners to furnish it, and it could then he laid upon the table of the House.
 MR. PEASE  said, he was convinced that flogging was not necessary for the maintenance of discipline. He would support the Amendment,
 MR. WEMYSS  seconded the Motion. The line proposed in the Bill of the Edinburgh, Dunfermline, and Perth Junction Railway had the support not only of the district through which it passed, but was of national importance. It was a saving of twenty miles direct to Perth.
 MR. WHITE  said, he wished to move the omission of Clause 22. which authorized flogging in the army. He thought it worth while to mention that flogging in the army, to which he had much repugnance, had very considerably diminished since he last had the honour of bringing the subject forward. He would not detain the House, but would jump at once into figures. The flogging during the year 1860–1 was—the Infantry, in 40 regiments, 96 men were flogged; the Cavalry, in 28 regiments, 29 men were flogged; the Royal Artillery, 41 men were flogged; the Engineers, I man was flogged; and the Military Train. 12 men were flogged; total, 179. In 1858–9, no flogging in 65 regiments; in 1859–60, no flogging in 34 regiments; in 1860–1, no flogging in 19 regiments. In 1858, the lashes given on an average per man were 42; in 1859, 44; and in 1860, 48. The men flogged in the army and militia, in 1857, were 112, and they received 5,240 lashes; in 1858, 218, and they received 9,338 lashes; in 1859, 512, and they received 22,565 lashes; and in 1860, 179, and they received 8,597 lashes. The Committee would perhaps be struck by the great discrepancy between 1859 and 1858. It was believed out of doors that that was owing to the interpolation of two words into the Mutiny Act. He had referred to  Hansard 1986
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he objected to Clause 26, which provided that when an offender was dismissed from the army he should be branded upon the right breast with the letters "B. C." He supposed that meant "barbarous custom."
 1988
 MR. VANCE  said, he wished to ask Mr. Attorney General, Whether it be the intention of the Government to introduce any measure to alter or amend the Bankruptcy Bill of last Session?
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he wished to explain to the House the view which the Standing Orders Committee took of the Bill. The House was well aware that all railway companies were bound to give notice of the powers they asked for, and of the property which they intended to take. The House was particularly cautious with regard to amalgamation Bills in requiring due notice to be given. Now, there was a proposal for an amalgamation in the Bill with the East and West of Fife Line; but of that no notice had been given, and that constituted one ground for the rejection of the Bill by the Standing Orders Committee. But a still more serious breach of the regulations laid down by the House was that they had professed in their notice to take the Queen's Ferry—an important point, well known to all Members who had travelled northwards—under an equitable agreement with the owners, whereas the Bill itself proposed to take compulsory powers. What made the matter worse was that the company had done the very same thing last year, and the only excuse made this year was that the promoters of the Bill were not the same parties. But in truth the clause was precisely the same as that of last year, and the Standing Orders Committee—who could have no possible feeling upon the subject—had no option but to reject the Bill after that double infraction of the orders of the House. He thought the Standing Orders Committee were bound to do what they had done in order to protect private in-
 1955
 MR. R. HODGSON  said, he should support the reinstatement of the Bill, on the ground that it would be beneficial to the community, and that there was a competing scheme before Parliament. There were three Bills now before Parliament, and amongst them the East and West of Fife line, seeking for powers of amalgamation, so that the scheme of amalgamation would not be done away with by refusing to reinstate the Bill.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  explained, that the clause had been inserted for convenience, and that it could not be acted upon without the consent of Parliament. However, it was not necessary, and therefore he was quite ready to omit it from the Bill.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that the clause was merely intended to reserve the rights of the Duchy of Cornwall. It was not meant to confer any new rights on the Crown.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  explained, that the provisional order only did away with the necessity of coming to Parliament for special powers. The order would have no force unless affirmed by the House of Commons. There was no reason for omitting the clause altogether.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, there was a clause in the Bill which was to the effect that in case any petition should be presented to either House of Parliament against any provisional order made in pursuance of the Act, that petition might be referred to a Select Committee.
 MR. COX  said, he understood that the letters were formed with a needle steeped in gunpowder. The custom was a brutal and demoralizing one, and ought not to be tolerated in a civilized age.
 MR. GREGORY  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, If the attention of the Government has been called to the reported capture in Mexican Waters of the British Vessel  Labuan,
 MR. MASSEY  said, that the promoters of the Bill were entitled to very little consideration, as a similar infraction of rules to that on which the report was founded had been committed by them in reference to a previous measure. The House should, however, consider whether the public interest was involved in the matter to such an extent as to induce them to take the exceptional course proposed. Having listened attentively to the case made, he did not think it sufficient to justify the setting aside of the report.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, that as a member of the Committee he joined in its rejection; but believing it to be for the interest of the district that the line should be made, he hoped the House would pass over the error that had been committed by the promoters.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, it would not be fair to the proprietors who petitioned against the Bill to expose them to the expense of opposing the line a second time in the same session. The House ought not to dispense with the Standing Orders on light grounds.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  replied, that the Military Train was a purchase Corps, exactly like the infantry and cavalry regiments of the Line, and exchanges took place between the latter regiments and the Military Train on the same principle. It was quite true that many of the Officers in the Military Train had obtained their Commissions without purchase, but the reason was because the Military Train was formed out of the old Transport Corps, which was a non-purchase Corps.
 MR. STANHOPE  said, that having been thrown much into the company of those to whom the subject was familiar, and being himself deeply interested in it, he would make that an excuse for trespassing on the House. At the same time he would confine his observations to that portion of the Government scheme which made payment entirely to depend on the examination of each individual child. Now, he thought they were bound, in order to calculate what were the results to be expected from the new system for the future, to consider what had been the results of the old system in time past; and he thought he could show that so far from its having been as alleged non-effective, it had produced the greatest advantages. It had been said that three bad results had followed the system; but if they looked to the causes which had produced those three bad results, it would be found that they were causes which were put to the control of the managers, and were equally likely to produce bad results undo the new system.
 66 67 68
 MR. STANHOPE : He should like to know the test of efficiency which had been applied in making the examinations. He had observed throughout the whole report of the Commissioners a tendency to expect too much from village schools. The Commissioners-reported that only 25 per cent of the children remained in school up to the age of twelve years and passed into the upper classes; and they assumed that only that percentage was successfully educated. It might follow from the first fact that only 25 per cent of the children could be successfully educated; but it did not follow that the other 75 per cent got no education at all. If they ap-
 69 "Of the 1,549,312 children whose names are on the books of public elementary day schools belonging to the religious denominations, only 19·3 per cent were in their twelfth year or upwards, and only that proportion, therefore, can be regarded as educated up to the standard suited to their stations. As many as 786,202 attend for less than 100 days in the year, and can therefore hardly receive a serviceable amount of education, while our evidence goes to prove that a large proportion even of those whose attendance is more regular, fail in obtaining it on account of inefficient teaching." "There are such demands for juvenile, almost infantile labour, that anything like regularity of attendance or continuance of instruction is impossible. If we take in Herefordshire seven annual harvests, in which children are largely occupied, some estimate may be formed of the difficulties through which the education of the children of the rural poor has to force its way." "In the East of England the general complaint is, that from the constant absence of the children, there is hardly such a thing as progress in the education of children above eight years old. Teachers can usually do no more than bring the elder children up again to the point they reached before. Children begin to have a money value the moment they can crow." 70 s d s s "I have spoken to farmers, and they informed me that at certain times they want the children, and they must have them." 71 72 73 74 75 The Times The Times 76 77
 MR. LYGON  opposed the name of Mr. Freeland, on the ground that the landed interest was not sufficiently represented. He proposed that the name of the hon. Member for East Norfolk (Mr. Howes) should be substituted for that of Mr. Freeland, who had been nominated simply because he represented a cathedral city.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken seemed to think that because there were evils in the existing system, he was bound himself, and even entitled to call upon the House, to vote for whatever remedy the Government pleased to provide. He agreed with the hon. Gentleman in thinking that the present system was defective—though not to the extent described—and he would join in supporting any hon. Member in any well-considered measure to remove those defects; but he objected to the Government scheme, because it did not remedy existing evils, and rather added to their number and intensity. The complaints against the existing system might
 82 83 84 The Times 85 86 87 88
 MR. LAYARD  stated in reply, that papers received from the agents of the Government relating to the character and operations of the Taepings were being prepared for presentation to the House, and he hoped that they would shortly be laid on the table.
 MR. LAYARD : It is with much regret I have to announce—and I am sure my hon. Friends connected with the manufacturing districts will hear the announcement with regret—that, owing to the demands which have been put forward by the Belgian Government, the negotiations upon this subject are suspended for the present.
 MR. BUXTON  said, he was one of those managers of whom the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Stanhope) had spoken with so much compassion. Having for many years superintended a school of 1,200 children, under Government pay, he had been obliged to give close study to the subject, and for a time he felt, to use the phrase of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Cambridge University, under a cloud of uncertainty. He thought, however, that the real way of grappling with the subject, was to investigate these three questions—first, would the new system tend to damp religious teaching; and, second, would it stimulate secular teaching? He would not go into the religious questions. He had imagined that spectre was laid, and that there was a general acknowledgment that the new Code would leave things in that respect where they were. Could anybody acquainted with the working of a school suppose that the schoolmaster would encroach on the time allotted to religious teaching, because the school would gain a larger grant for instruction in the three R's? The best way, after all, to teach reading was to make the children understand the sense of the words they read. It would, therefore, be the interest of the master to see that his pupils comprehended the full force of what they read in the religious text-books. It was monstrous to charge those who approved the new Code with a design to neglect religious teaching for the sake of the infinitesimal extra payment which they might procure by devoting all the time and energies of the school to secular education. The managers of the schools were incapable of such conduct; his firm conviction was that they would not relax their zeal for the religious teaching of the children of the poor whether they were
 78 quid pro quo 79 80 81
 MR. PULLER  said, he did not blame the Vice President of, the Committee, of Council for having waited till the last day of the late session before he laid the Revised Code before Parliament; but the charge he should rather make was that the right hon. Gentleman ought to have waited longer, in order to allow the country to digest the report of the Commissioners, and to give the Inspectors the opportunity of answering the charges brought against them. The right hon. Gentleman appeared to have the notion that the education grant was a sort of public boon or gift, and that all persons in any way connected with the education of the poor, those who paid and those who received—managers, inspectors, teachers, pupil-teachers, and Queen's scholars—constituted an army of 38,000 or 40,000 persons whose business it was to obtain as much money as possible out of the public revenue. In that House his right hon. Friend kept within certain bounds of propriety, but out of that House the advocates of this Revised Code allowed themselves to speak of the managers and supporters of schools under the existing system as importunate petitioners for public alms, yearning after undeserved aid, and lost to all sense of self-reliance and independence, honesty and justice. That was strange language to be applied to such people as the excellent Bishop of Bath and Wells, Mr. Cotton, the Director of the Bank of England, Archdeacons Allen and Sinclair, Mr. Scott, the Principal of the Wesleyan Training College, and others who had for years devoted both time and money to promote the moral and intellectual improvement of their poorer neighbours. Many of the managers had been induced to undertake the work of education by the terms offered by the Government, and now, after the lapse of fifteen years, when these parties had sunk their capital
 96 97 98 99 d s d s d s s d s 100 101 102
 MR. LEATHAM : Sir, I think that no one can compare the tone of this debate with that which was assumed by those who have assailed the Revised Code out of doors, without arriving at the conclusion that one of two things must have happened, either that the assailants of the Code have attacked it with a vehemence and passion wholly unjustifiable, wholly unreasonable, and the recollection of which, therefore, must involve them in a corresponding amount of ridicule, or that hon. Members who have spoken upon that side of the question are strangely blind to the gravity of the crisis, and strangely indifferent to the demands of their religion and their country. But, since the whole controversy has descended from the region of metaphor and hyperbole, I think it has become one from which no one need run away; and this must be my apology for venturing to offer to the House a few observations upon some of the more prominent objections which have been urged against the Revised Code in the course of this debate. Now the strong point of the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down (Mr. Puller) appeared to be the argument: that we are about to violate a vested interest—but, who, except the hon. Gentleman ever heard of a vested interest which was still in its teens. Although, then, I cannot admit that the certificated schoolmasters constitute a vested interest; although I cannot admit that the men to whom you have given an almost gratuitous education—to whom, with the name of free-trade upon your lips, you are confirming
 103 104 minimum maximum 105 106 maximum minimum
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  also urged upon the hon. Member not to persevere with his Amendment.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said he had endeavoured to select the Members of the Committee with the utmost fairness and impartiality. He trusted that the hon. Gentleman would not press his Amendment.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  proposed the appointment of the Committee.
 MR. FREELAND  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether any Communications have been received from our Military or Naval Officers in command on the China station, with reference to the character and operations of the Taepings, or rebels; and whether the Government will lay upon the table of the House, Copies of, or Extracts from, any such Communications?
 MR. CLAY  thought, the House ought either to leave off calling for returns which many railway companies declared to be vexatious; or, if false returns were made, they should prosecute an inquiry.
 MR. CLAY  seconded the Motion.
 MR. FARRER  was glad to receive that assurance. From the warm manner in which the hon. Gentleman had brought the matter before the House, coupled with his previous assertion that the Company had committed an act of swindling, the inference which he had drawn was not unnatural. It had been stated that Mr. Jackson was indebted to the Company in a very large sum: the fact being that at the present moment the Company were actually indebted to Mr. Jackson to the extent of £40,000. This was a most unwarrantable attack on a most respectable Company.
 MR. FARRER  thought the House would arrive at the conclusion that there was no reason for appointing a Select Committee. The hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck) had stated that he had no interest in the case, and that he knew nothing about it. No one would suppose that he had any interest in it; and his speech was sufficient to show that he knew nothing about it. Was it fair, right, or generous, or was it consistent with the character of English gentlemen, to seek to prejudice the case of persons which, at the present moment, was undergoing inquiry in a court of law?
 109
 MR. WHITESIDE  moved that the Debate be now adjourned.
 MR. ROEBUCK  rose to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the truth of the allegations contained in the petition of Benjamin Coleman, presented on the 18th inst., charging fraud on the part of the Directors of the West Hartlepool Railway and Dock Company. The hon. and learned Member said, he had no personal knowledge of the facts, he knew nothing of the parties, and he had no interest in the case. As he was informed, this Railway Company obtained their Act of incorporation in 1852. A certain sum of money was fixed by the Railway Act as forming their capital, and borrowing powers to the extent of one-half their paid-up capital were conferred on them. That House required that every railway company should make a statement of the sums paid up as capital in their undertaking, in order that the sums which they were at liberty to borrow might be made known to the public. The fraud which it was alleged the Company had committed was in respect of their statements as to paid-up capital and interest. Three several returns of paid-up capital had been made by this Company. In their return to the Board of' Trade, in 1854, under the heading "Amount of Share Capital of the Company actually paid up," there appeared the sum of £552,000. In the same year the sum stated to their shareholders was £403,110; while the actual issue, as appeared by the books of the Company, was £287,878. In the return of 1859 the paid-up capital was stated to the Board of Trade as £815,000; the same amount was stated to the shareholders; while, in point of fact, no more than the £287,878 had ever been paid up. It was further alleged that the Company had borrowed to the extent of upwards of £2,000,000, which the House would see was greatly in excess of what was authorized by their borrowing powers. The actual interest paid by the Company was £59,497 1 s d s d s sub judice 108
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he had nothing whatever to do with the matter referred to.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he had no earthly interest in this matter. An attempt had been made to direct the feeling of the House against him for bringing this subject forward; but he had brought it forward on public grounds alone. He had used the word "swindling," and the way he had used it was this. He said, that if the allegations of the petition were true, it amounted to "swindling" upon the public. He had had evidence laid before him which appeared to him to sustain the allegations. In doing so he had done his duty, and it was now for the House to do theirs.
 MR. LOWE : I said that it would be impossible for them to remember the number of children they had examined in each class in all the schools.
 MR. WALPOLE : Yes, it does in many instances: for these children, at the last
 51 52 53 54
 MR. WALPOLE : I rise merely to say that the right hon. Baronet laboured under a misapprehension when he stated that I had been advised to make this a party question.
 MR. WALPOLE , who had given Notice of Motion as follows:—
 "That this House will immediately resolve itself into a Committee to consider the best mode of distributing the Parliamentary Grants for Education now administered by the Privy Council; and, in Committee, to move the following Resolutions:—
 
 "1. That where it is proposed to give Government aid to Elementary Schools, it is inexpedient that the whole amount of such aid should depend on the individual examination of each child in reading, writing, and arithmetic. "2. That the system of grouping by age for the purpose of examination would be unequal in its operation, and an inadequate test of the work done in the School, and specially disadvantageous for those children whose early education has been neglected. "3. That the provisions of the Revised Code, in the points referred to in the foregoing Resolutions, would, if unamended, increase the difficulty of extending the benefits of the Government Grants to poor and neglected districts. "4. That the refusal of any portion of the Parliamentary Grants, on account of any children who have once passed in the highest class of examination, is likely to have an injurious effect, as tending to aggravate the acknowledged evil of the withdrawal of children from Elementary Schools at an early age. "5. That it is inexpedient that the Capitation Grants, on account of children under seven years of age, should be made to depend on the individual examination of those children. "6. That the provisions of the Revised Code with regard to Evening Schools are unsatisfactory, inasmuch as the Master, in many cases, would be unable, after the labour undergone in the day, adequately to attend to the management and teaching of the evening scholars. "7. That the regulations contained in the Revised Code, with regard to Pupil Teachers, are unjust and impolitic. "8. That it would be unjust entirely to withhold the other benefits of the Parliamentary Grant from such managers of schools as decline to undertake to provide and pay the stipend and gratuities, now severally payable on account of Pupil Teachers, during the continuance of their current apprenticeship. "9. That it would be impolitic to run the risk of a return to the monitorial system by discouraging the employment of Pupil Teachers, and that such employment would be better promoted by pecuniary premiums than by pecuniary penalties. "10. That in January of each year, if the Code be revised, or any material alteration in it be necessary, it shall be printed in such a form as to show separately all articles cancelled or modified, and all new articles. "11. That, in the event of such revision or material alteration as mentioned in the last foregoing Resolution, it shall not be lawful to take any action thereon until the same shall have been submitted to Parliament, and laid on the Table of both Houses for at least one calendar month." 22 23 24 25 "Alterius sic Altera poscit opem res, et conjurat amice " 26 27 "Now I cannot promise you that this new Code will be either economical or efficient, but I can promise you that it shall be either one or the other: if it is not efficient, it shall be cheap; and if it is not cheap, it shall be efficient." 28 29 30 31 32 s 33 34 "One of the tests of the moral influence of the school is its discipline. The best teaching will produce little good effect if this be defective." (Report, p. 266.) "There is no subject on which the Reports' of the Inspectors deserve more confidence." (p. 266.) "They report the discipline to be excellent, good, or fair, on 94.3 per cent of the schools receiving annual grants, and 75.7 per cent on the others. An illustration of the moral effect produced by the discipline maintained in the schools is furnished by the marked success in the subsequent life of the children coming from district and separate schools, particularly of the orphans, the class which is secluded from almost every other influence, and is often thrown on the world utterly friendless and deserted." (p. 267.) "The religious and moral influence of the public schools appears to be very great, to be greater than even their intellectual influence. A set of good schools civilizes a whole neighbourhood. The most important function of the schools is that which they best perform." (p. 273.) 35 36 "Any capitation grant, the distribution of which is determined by the results of instruction in schools, is liable to the fundamental objection that the average period of the attendance of the majority of scholars is so short that as far as that majority is concerned few schools would be paid for the results of their own work. In the specimen districts 42 per cent of the scholars had been in the same public week-day school less than one year, and 22 per cent had been one year, but less than two years. With such migratory scholars it is impossible justly to pay for work done in schools on any plan constructed to embrace those three-fifths of the scholars who attend schools less than two years. The remaining 35 per cent who attend more than two years are alone subjects for an examination of the results secured by the work of any school." 37 "While recognising the soundness of the principle of a test of the state of elementary instruction in the school as one basis of the pecuniary aid rendered by the Committee of Council, this Committee regard the proposal to make this the only basis of such aid as most unsatisfactory to school managers. They especially consider the classification by age to be unsound in principle, while the restriction of a pecuniary claim to one examination of the same children above eleven years old discountenances what has justly been deemed most important—namely, the lengthened retention of children at school." "We have steadily kept in view, as the grand object of national education, the elevation of the poor and labouring classes in general education and morals, and have sought by suitable instruction and training to render the children attending school, well informed, religious and well conducted in all the relations of life. The new Code, limiting the attainments by which money to the support of the schools will be obtained from the Government, must concentrate the attention and efforts both of teachers and managers mainly on what the standard requires, the attainments which are allowed a money value, and must prove a great temptation to regard as secondary or to put out of sight altogether the prime object of education—the intellectual and religious training of the rising generation." 38 "That, in the opinion of the Committee, it is inexpedient to make the whole of the annual grants to elementary schools dependent on the number of scholars, who in reading, writing, and arithmetic shall obtain a prescribed standard of proficiency—the same in all places, and under all circumstances of previous condition, preparatory training-school attendance or natural capacity, the varieties in these several particulars presenting the greatest contrasts in one district as compared with another. That this objection would be greatly aggravated by the proposed plan of grouping children according to age." 39 "The junior classes in schools, including the great majority of the children, do not learn, or learn imperfectly, the most necessary part of what they came to learn—reading, writing, and arithmetic." "It appears even in the best schools, that only one-fourth of the boys attain the highest class, and are considered by the Inspectors to be successfully educated." "Lord Granville and myself felt that we could not sit still in the face of that Report, without showing the House and the country that we had done all in our power to remedy that state of things. You have got the Commissioners asserting one thing and the Inspectors another. The Commissioners said that only one-fourth of the children were properly instructed, while the Inspectors contended that ninety per cent of the schools were either excellently or fairly taught, and the Department of Education had to judge between the two. What were we to do? What honest men ought to do; not to leave this matter under a cloud of uncertainty. We said, we will appeal to facts, and not go on reasoning à  priori priori 40 "There is, as was the case last year, good reason to be satisfied with the progress of school children in the subjects of their instruction, and especially in the elementary and more important subjects." "I think I see a decided tendency ever going on to stick to what may perhaps be called necessary subjects. By necessary subjects I mean reading, writing, spelling, religious knowledge, and arithmetic, and, in girls' schools, needlework." "The Parliamentary grant has placed within reach of the working population a sound although plain education for their children. I do not refer to the extent and variety of their studies, but to their knowledge of a few elementary subjects." "The three indispensable elements of education, reading, writing, and arithmetic, evidently receive, as they ought to do, the largest share of attention, and are most successfully inculcated." 41 42 43 44 45 s 46 47 "Their acquirements and general fitness for the posts for which they have been selected are best attested by the fact that only 12·68 per cent of the total number admitted are removed during their apprenticeship, either by death, failure of health, failure in attainments, misconduct, or other causes, including the adoption of other pursuits in life." (p. 106.) 48 "The items for pupil-teachers are pointed out as the most outrageous of the whole estimate, chiefly perhaps because it was the largest item. It was, however, the opinion of those best qualified to judge that, whatever became of the pupil-teachers after their apprenticeship, for every penny laid out upon them the public derived the fall benefit."… "If the pupil-teacher system were to be abolished, it was the opinion of competent judges that it would have to be replaced by a system fully as expensive, if not more expensive. In that event a very considerable loss would be entailed—the loss of the education which had been given to large numbers of young persons, who if they did not all, as most of them did, remain in the department, formed a valuable reinforcement to the lower classes in point of intelligence and education. He was satisfied that the soundest part, the healthy core of the whole system, that which entitled it most to the support of the House and the country, consisted of the grants to pupil-teachers." 49 50
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  reminded the House that the decision arrived at in this case would doubtless form a precedent; and if, on the mere presentation of a peti-
 110
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, he could not help remembering, when the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Roebuck) was the other night applying the terms "swindling" and "swindler" to those concerned in this matter, that last year he had shown excessive indignation when he (Mr. Coning-ham) asked for an inquiry into the Galway Company, with which the hon. and learned Member had been connected. He (Mr. Coningham) knew of no valid reason why inquiries of this kind should be instituted by the House. He found counter allegations circulated among the Members of the House, in which reflections were made upon the person whom the hon. and learned Member represented. [Mr. ROEBUCK: No; I do not.] In a statement it was put forth that Benjamin Coleman, at Preston, had proposed to withdraw all proceedings on payment to him of £6,000, and it had also been stated by those connected with him that it was expected to make £20,000 by proceedings of a similar nature against other companies. He (Mr. Coningham) thought the House of Commons had far better business to attend to than to meddle in matters of this kind.
 MR. DEEDES  thought the proposed Committee was very fairly selected.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, it was with great reluctance that he found he could not concur in the plan of the Government—not so much because he was an habitual supporter of theirs; for it was agreed on all hands that this was not a party question—but because it was impossible to deny that the administration
 89 90 91 92 93 94 95
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether he can give the House any information relative to the Commercial Treaty now negotiating between this Country and Belgium?
 COLONEL W. STUART  said, he would
 20 vice versâ
 SIR GEORGE GREY : It does not stop until the age of twelve.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I understood the right hon. Gentleman to say that some of his friends wished to make it a party question. ["No, no."]
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, it is hardly necessary after the announcement made a short time ago by my noble Friend at the head of the Government, for me now to say that the Government are perfectly ready to accede to the Motion for going into a Committee of the whole House in order to consider the Resolutions of which notice has been given by the right hon. Gentleman, The right hon. Gentleman
 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65
 MR. LOCKE KING  said, he thought the expense would be very trifling. His great object was to have that most important book of reference carefully indexed, for without an index it would be of no use whatever. The compilation of an index was really scissors work; some of his children had amused themselves at home by making one for a constituency of some 5,000 electors, and had made a very excellent index. If the index were not brought out together with the register it would be of no use. He wished to propose, by way of Amendment, to except cities or boroughs not comprising more than six parishes. He should therefore move, in line 7, after "borough" to insert "comprising more than six parishes, wards, or districts."
 MR. PAGET  said, he thought the Bill would be of no advantage to the borough which he represented (Nottingham), or to boroughs generally, though it would to counties.
 MR. LOCKE KING  said, he was in the hands of the House whether to extend the proposition to boroughs or not. He had intended the Bill originally for counties only, but had been induced by representations which had been made to him to extend it to boroughs.
 MR. PAGET  said, he would beg to move that the words "wards or districts" be left out.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he did not quite agree with the observations of the hon. and learned Member for the University (Mr. Selwyn). In considering the question it would be convenient to distinguish between questions of law and questions of fact. So far as the proposal of his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Rolt) went in reference to the expediency of leaving questions of law to be dealt with by the Courts of Equity, it commended itself strongly to the favourable consideration of the House, inasmuch as it was extremely desirable that suitors should not be bandied about from one Court to another as at present during the progress of the same case, unless for strong and clear reasons. Now, there could be only three reasons why a Court of Equity should be permitted at its discretion to send a case to a Court of Law, not that the whole case should be disposed of at law, but that after part of it had been disposed of at law, it should come back to the Court of Equity. The first of these reasons was that of greater convenience, but that point was so obvious that he should
 118 119
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  proposed an Amendment to the effect that questions of fact might be tried either at the assizes or at the sessions in London
 121
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, his object was to place jury trials, in cases originating in Courts of Equity, upon the same footing as jury trials in cases originating in Courts of Law. His Amendment was applicable only to cases in which, in the first place, the court determined that a jury trial was necessary; and where, in the second place, from the circumstances of the court and of the cause, that jury trial might conveniently be taken either at the assizes or in London, as in cases arising in courts of common law. The interposition of jury trials without arrangement, in the Courts of Chancery, would lead to indefinite and protracted delays in the despatch of business.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he wished to introduce a new clause, providing that in cases where the object of the suit is to recover or defend possession of land under a legal title, such relief only shall be given in equity as would have been proper if the Act had not passed.
 MR. STANLEY  said, he would move the addition of the following words at the end of Clause 1:—"The instrument used to be only a birch rod."
 MR. BLACK  said, he proposed to add words at the end of the clause, providing that where the punishment of whipping was inflicted, the offender should not also be imprisoned for the same offence. His hon. Friend the Member for Sheffield thought whipping a cruel and degrading punishment; but it was certainly preferable to imprisoning juvenile delinquents, who came out of prison not only degraded but corrupted. After a sound whipping the offender felt the smart, and the chances were he would not get into the same mess again; but once in prison, among spirits more nicked than himself, a most serious moral injury was inflicted on him, which he might never be able to overcome. He did not understand why criminals should not be whipped when respectable boys had often to undergo the punishment. In the school where he was, not one of them escaped. Besides, the instrument to be used was only a birch rod. He had a notion that a birch rod was rather a harmless instrument. He had never come into contact with anything less formidable than "the tawse."
 MR. DUNLOP  said, the clause had been framed with the view of assimilating the law of Scotland to what had been done with reference to England last year.
 MR. DUNLOP  observed, that the Bill had a twofold object; first to explain, and next to extend an Act of William IV. Doubts had arisen through the use of the word "clergyman," which had been decided sometimes to apply to a Dissenting
 127
 MR. DUNLOP  said, that in the absence of his hon. Friend (Mr. Kinnaird) he wished to move to add, after the previous Amendment, the following words:—
 "And further, that in Scotland no offender, for theft, or for crime committed against the person, or against property, exceeding sixteen years of age, shall be whipped; or if under that age, be whipped more than once for the same offence."
 MR. STEUART  said, he could confirm what had fallen from the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Urquhart), as to the injury inflicted upon turnpike trusts by these exemptions, and hoped that the hon. Member for Greenock (Mr. Dunlop) would him self introduce a Bill to abolish them. If the existing exemption were to be extended to travelling preachers and to medical men an equal claim might be put in on behalf of that useful class—the cow-doctors.
 MAJOR CUMMING BRUCE  said, he thought that the exemptions were altogether wrong, and that the measure, under the guise of only removing doubts, sought to extend a vicious principle.
 MR. SELWYN  said, he would submit that the clause, as, worded., did not carry out the intention of the author of the Bill. It made provision for cases in which the court had jurisdiction, but it left untouched cases in which the court might hold that it was not fitting to exercise jurisdiction. The main objection to the Bill was, that it left out of sight the view which defendants might take of cases to which they might be parties. It was in fact, a plaintiff's Bill, and the interests of defendants were entirely forgotten.
 MR. SELWYN  said, that on the second reading of the Bill no opportunity had been given for discussing its provisions, and he had taken advantage of the time which had since elapsed to consult the opinions of several eminent lawyers both on the Bench and at the Bar. Finding that they entertained the same objections to the measure that he himself had, he thought it right to state those objections. When he informed the House that his objections were shared by the senior Vice Chancellor, Sir R. T. Kindersley, and by Sir John Romilly, the worthy son of an eminent law reformer, he was sure that they would have some weight with the House. The object of the Bill might be stated in a few words. It proposed to enact that in all cases in which any relief or remedy within the jurisdiction of the Courts of Chancery should be sought in any cause or matter in those courts, and whether the title to such relief were or were not incident to or dependent on a legal right, every question of law or fact, on the determination of which the title to such relief or remedy depended, should be determined by or before the same court. The Bill therefore took away from the judges of the Courts of Chancery the discretion hitherto exercised by them in reference to the mode in which justice should be dispensed in their own courts. It had been stated by his hon. and learned Friend as one reason for the introduction of the Bill, that the judgment of the judges was fettered by a certain train of precedents and authorities. If the operation of the Bill were confined to the removal of that fetter which was supposed to exist, he should not oppose it; but he dissented
 115 116
 MR. MURE  said, he did not think the clause necessary. He was not aware that any offender above fourteen years of age was liable to be whipped. Certainly, in practice, whipping was limited to offenders under that age.
 MR. MURE  said, he might have agreed in the opinion of the hon. Member for Perthshire (Mr. Stirling) if the question of exemption were raised for the first time. But they found an Act of Parliament in existence granting the exemption to clergymen, and doubts had arisen as to the right construction of that Act: it having been held in some cases that the exemption already extended to Roman Catholic clergymen and Dissenting ministers in common with the clergy of the established church, and in other cases that it was strictly confined to the latter. The Bill was intended to remove that uncertainty, and if any Amendment were required in its terms, it could be made in Committee.
 MR. MURE  said, he had no objection to the clause, but he rather apprehended the proposed limitation would imply the power to inflict this mode of punishment on offenders of the age of sixteen, whereas, in practice, it was restricted to those Under fourteen.
 MR. HOWES  said, if the making of the index was so very small a matter that it could be done in any gentleman's house, it would be too bad to throw the expense of it on the rates.
 MR. HOWES  said, he objected to the
 112
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, if the Bill were to pass at all, it ought to have a general operation, and it would be found to be a great convenience to the public, and particularly to Members of that House.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY , said, he was glad to perceive that a first stride was made by his learned. Friend towards conferring on a Court of Equity a much extended jurisdiction; but considering the important interests involved, it would be incumbent on the House to, proceed with very great caution in considering the provisions of the Bill. If they once conferred upon a Court of Equity the power to decide all the questions of law and fact that might come before it, they ought to make it imperative on the court to determine those questions. It ought to be incumbent on the judges of the Court of Equity having jurisdiction over the entire case to decide the question—subject, of course, to an appeal to a higher court. Where there was a concurrent jurisdiction in a Court of Law and a Court of Equity, it was the right of the subject to choose the one or the other; and when he asked for relief in a certain court, that court ought not to have power to abdicate its functions because it might be thought more convenient that the question should be decided in another court. He would suggest to his hon. Friend who had charge of the Bill that some machinery should be provided to give the judge in equity all the powers on a trial before a
 120
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  in moving the second reading of this Bill said, he proposed, with the permission of the House, to take the discussion upon it at another stage.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he would rather not go into the discussion again, but he hoped the occurrence to which allusion had been made would not take place again.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he would then propose to add at the end of the clause the following proviso:—
 "Provided always that the Lord Chancellor, the Master of the Rolls, or one of the Lords Justices, or one of the Vice Chancellors of the said Court, shall be empowered to preside at the trial of any such issue, if it shall he deemed expedient to do so, or the justice of the case shall require it or render it advisable."
 MR. HADFIELD  said, there were sixty-four crimes punishable with whipping, with or without imprisonment, and with or without hard labour, and the effect of the Amendment would be in a great measure to neutralize the Act of last Session in many of these cases.
 MR. HADFIELD  observed, that the clause had been carefully drawn, and was approved by the Secretary for the Home Department.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he should support the principle of the Bill, which would greatly promote public convenience. The public would be further benefited if the judges who tried causes had the opportunity of going down to the assizes to try the issues of fact which were involved.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he proposed to add to the end of the clause the following proviso:—
 "That all serjeants and barristers at law, and all attorneys at law and solicitors, shall, from and after the passing of this Act, be entitled to practise in the said court, notwithstanding any rule or regulation to the contrary; and the said serjeants and barristers at law shall have respectively, the same rank and precedence as they are now entitled to."
 MR. G. W. HOPE  said, even where there were only two or three parishes such an index would be a great convenience.
 MR. G. W. HOPE  said, he saw no reason for omitting constituencies where there were only six parishes. He and his constituents thought the measure a very useful one.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he objected to all exemptions as bad. They were now confined to clergymen within their own parishes, but the Bill sought to extend them to all ministers being pastors of congregations. There was obscurity in the language of the measure which would lead to great litigation; and, rather than extend the exemptions from toll in the manner proposed, it would be better to sweep them away altogether. He would therefore move, as an Amendment, that the Speaker leave the chair that day six months.
 MR. MALINS  said, he thought that the operation of the act of 1852 had been very beneficial. Before the passing of that act the custom used to be, as soon as a Bill was filed, to send issues to be tried at common law; and after going through all the courts, they came back again to the Court of Equity, which had very often to decide the point for itself in the end. His impression was, that wherever it was convenient for the court of Equity to try the question of fact as well as settle the law, it Should do so. He should give his Cordial support to the Bill, as he felt assured that, it would on the whole produce a considerable improvement in the despatch bf business in the Courts of Equity.
 MR. MALINS  said, he should support the Amendment. The clause as it stood limited discretion to the matter of expense; the Amendment extended it to the question of general convenience, which included expense and the best mode of deciding issue, according to the probable length of the trial and the residences of the witnesses. The Amendment would not maintain existing abuses, because the object of the Bill was to lay down the principle that the court must act for itself, except where it would be most convenient to do otherwise. A rule that the court must try all issues would, by interfering with the business of the court, produce an amount of inconvenience to the public of which the Committee could be little aware.
 MR. MALINS  said, that he could not distinguish between the first clause and that which had been rejected.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he approved the principle of the Bill; but he thought it would be better to leave things as they Stood, unless the House was prepared to Sanction the proposition—which he was of opinion, it ought to sanction—that whether a question of law or a question of fact arose for decision, all the points incidental to the principal matter at issue should be decided by the court having jurisdiction over that matter.
 MR. BUCHANAN  said, that since the exemption was originally established, division had occurred in the religious community in Scotland, and he thought ministers of all denominations ought now to be put on an equality in that matter with the ministers of the established church. Such a course was in accordance with the intentions of the House in all recent legislation.
 MR. COX  said, the intention of the hon. Member for East Surrey was that there should be an index for the benefit of the constituents and not of the candidates. It appeared to him to be unnecessary to have an index to the register of names where there were only six parishes, and he therefore approved the proposition of the hon. Gentleman.
 MR. W. LESLIE  said, he concurred in thinking that there ought to be no exemptions of the kind, but he should maintain that if they were to be extended to Dissenting ministers, they should also, in fairness, be conferred upon that most useful and meritorious class, country medical practitioners. Therefore, if they went into Committee, he should certainly move a clause to that effect.
 MR. MITFORD  said, he wished to take that opportunity of referring to what took place during the last discussion of that subject, when severe strictures were made on punishments said to be excessive, which were inflicted on juvenile offenders in Salford prison. The matter came under the notice of the prison authorities, and he had received communications on the subject. He was assured by the governor of the prison that the surgeon, who under the old law was responsible that no undue punishment was inflicted, had discharged the duties of his office for upwards of twenty years, was a most humane man, and possessed justly the full confidence of the visiting justices. The hon. Member for Manchester had also placed in his hand a
 124
 MR. MITFORD  observed, that he did not approve of the burden being thrown on the rates. He should be glad if the hon. Gentleman would insert twenty parishes instead of six.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, that as a trustee of a Scotch turnpike-road, he might observe that since the introduction of railways it was very difficult for turnpike trustees to pay their way, and he must therefore orotest, on behalf of the many poor persons interested in such investments, against the invasion of their property by undue exemptions. In Scotland there was a great rage for amateur preaching, and there was some fear that many persons would take to that vocation in order to avoid paying toll.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he hoped the hon. Gentleman would not withdraw his Amendment. In the large borough which he had the honour to represent (Portsmouth) there were only two parishes, and the register would not be of the slightest use.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, that the first clause was substantially the same as one that had been twice rejected by that House; and therefore, in Committee, if no one else did so, he would move the omission of that clause.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  remarked, that the Bill was of much importance, as it made
 114
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, the operation of the Bill, with regard to jury trials in the Court of Chancery, would be productive of delay, uncertainty, and expense. The clause, as proposed to be amended, would not provide that the court should direct any action at law to be commenced. The court would simply be charged with the burden of determining the right to relief for itself; but in questions of fact it would adopt the verdict of the jury, on a distinct issue stated by itself and returned direct to itself, instead of taking its own opinion upon the evidence. He believed that jury trials could more conveniently be taken at the assizes or at the sessions in London than in the Court of Chancery itself. Great inconvenience arose from interspersing proceedings in Chancery with jury trials, and, although he would not go so far as to say that a jury trial should never take place in the Court of Chancery, yet, upon the whole, he thought it would be preferable to have issues of fact tried in a Court of Law. The Amendment
 122
 SIR JOHN OGILVY  said, he would consent to postpone the second reading for a fortnight.
 MR. ROLT  said, he roust maintain that the analogy between the Court of Chancery and the other courts was so imperfect that it could not stand. As, however, there had been such an expression of opinion in favour of the Amendment, he would not divide the House against it.
 MR. ROLT  said, that his object in introducing the Bill was to prevent suitors being bandied from one court to another; he thought, that where a court had jurisdiction to deal with any subject, then every question of law and fact necessary to enable the court to administer the required relief ought to be determined by the court itself. When a suitor had been at the expense of having his case argued, it ought not to be in the power of the court to say, "We think the case should go to a Court of Law before this court decides." At present that was done, and when the suitor had been at the expense of going to a Court of Law, the case was sent back again. His object was not to deprive the Court of Chancery of jurisdiction, or to impart jurisdiction to it. His hon. and learned Friend had entirely mistaken the effect of the Bill. It would not enable any suitor to shift a cause from the right to the wrong court; for if the equity judge should think that the cause was more properly triable at law, he would still have the power to dismiss the suit in equity. All he wanted to enact was, when an Equity Court held that it had jurisdiction in the matter brought before it, that then that court should not have the power, upon any question of law or fact incident to the relief sought, to send to another court the suitor, who must afterwards come back again to the Court of Equity for the desired relief. His hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General had been kind enough to give his consideration to the matter, and he agreed in
 117
 MR. ROLT  said, that if his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Selwyn) would look to the clause again, he would see that it required no Amendment on the point referred to by him. The Amendment of the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Hadfield) was wholly unnecessary. There was no rule nor practice of the court, no rule of etiquette nor code of honour, no obligation of any kind whatever, to prevent any barrister practicing in a court of law from appearing in that court without reservation and without complying with any qualification. Common-law barristers might, and constantly did, appear in the Court of Chancery, and were welcomed there as cordially as any gentleman who regularly practised in the Courts of Equity. There was no such rule respecting the Equity Courts as there was with regard to the circuits.
 MR. ROLT  said, that if the Amendment were adopted, plaintiffs in the Court of Chancery would still be put to unnecessary expense, inasmuch as, not knowing whether the court would exercise the discretion left to it, they would be obliged to prepare for the trial of issues of fact in the Court of Chancery itself. If, as was not unlikely, their cases should be sent to a Court of Law, they would have to incur all the trouble and expense over again. He believed that the practical effect of the Amendment would be that all questions of fact, and of mixed fact and law, would be sent to be tried at the assizes, or at the sessions in London.
 MR. ROLT  objected to the proviso as obviously impracticable.
 MR. STIRLING  said, he believed that the Bill would extend the existing exemption from 1,000 or 1,100 persons to about three times that number. Indeed, if they were to go upon the principle that persons who were useful but not rich should enjoy the immunity, they could not consistently refuse it to country doctors, country lawyers, butchers, bakers, and even many landed proprietors. The way to put all denominations on an equal footing was to abolish the exemption entirely. The Bill would place Dissenting ministers in a better position than the clergy of the Establishment, because the latter were exempt from toll in their own parishes only, whereas the former would be exempt in perhaps six contiguous parishes. It was, moreover, very difficult in Soctland to define what a minister was. The desire to preach and to hear sermons was something quite pecu-
 126
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, in answer to the question put by the hon. and learned Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Selwyn), that the documents referred to appeared to the late Lord Herbert as private, and they were not in the War Department. With respect to the letter alluded to by the hon. Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Lefroy) that was certainly omitted by inadvertence, but Supplementary Returns, in which it was included, had already been laid on the table of the House.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Why the Return relative to the Diplomatic and Consular Services, addressed for on the 26th July last, has not been laid upon the table of the House?
 MR. PEEL  said, the Bill referred to by the hon. Gentleman gave permission to the Commissioners of Greenwich Hospital to contribute to the support of the poor in their parish, but nothing more. As to the claim put forward by the hon. Gentleman for a contribution from the public funds, he (Mr. Peel) did not consider that it ought to be admitted. The Hospital had large funds; and if the parish had any claim against the Hospital, it was from those funds that it should be met.
 MR. LEVESON GOWER  said, he could assure the House that it was not because he was somewhat peculiarly situated in regard to the Revised Code that he wished it
 185 186 data 187 188
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he would admit that his hon. Friend who had just sat down was as good an authority as any man in the House or out of it to give an explanation of the meaning of the Revised Code, having had the very best opportunity of studying and understanding it; yet he thought the House would hesitate before accepting his explanation of the Code, because, as he understood him, his hon. Friend said it was a mere fancy that Government was only going to pay for results of individual examination, whereas they were going to pay for attendance. Now he should like to have that part of the Revised Code pointed out which gave any authority for such a statement. It had been said that the Revised Code would produce a complete revolution in the schools. If by revolution was meant confusion and disorder, the usual concomitants, he quite agreed
 189 190 191 minimum 192 193 194 195
 MR. LEFROY  said, he would also beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether a Letter of the Vice Chancellor of the University of Dublin of the 10th of February was not omitted from "the Copy of Correspondence between the Secretary of State for War and the Universities of Oxford, Cambridge, and Dublin, relating to Military Education," ordered by the House to be printed 11th March, 1862; and whether there is any objection to the production of that Letter?
 MR. LAYARD  said, the fact was that in the early part of the last Session his hon. Friend the Member for Brighton moved for a similar Return, but on the representation of the noble Lord at the head of the Foreign Office (Lord John Russell), he withdrew the Motion. His hon. Friend (Mr. Lindsay), however, moved for his Return on the 26th of July, at the end of the session, after the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) had removed from that House, and by a mistake it had been allowed to pass, at a late hour, as an unopposed Return. The fact was, that a part of the information required by his hon. Friend (Mr. Lindsay) could not be given; but if his hon. Friend would communicate with him (Mr. Layard), he would endeavour to put the address in such a shape as would enable his hon. Friend to obtain the greater part of that information.
 MR. LAYARD  said, the hon. and learned Baronet had given him no notice that he was about to ask the questions which he had just put to him, and he was not, until that moment, aware that he was about to put them. He might, however, in reply to the hon. and learned Gentleman, state that Her Majesty's Government could not hold themselves responsible for articles which might appear in the Italian newspapers, or for all the Proclamations which might, or might not, be issued in that country. As regarded the particular Proclamation to which the hon. and learned Baronet had called attention, the Government had received information from Naples that a copy of that Proclamation had been brought under the notice of Her Majesty's Consul. By him the circumstance had been mentioned to the Governor of Naples, who had no information on the subject, but who sent to the remote place called Celico—a place which did not seem to be known to the Members of that House—and, after some time, learned from the syndic of the district that Major Fumel—an officer, he believed, not now in the military service of the Government—had prepared a draught of some such Proclamation, but that it had not even been printed. How the hon. and learned Baronet had procured a copy of it he was unable to say. He must, however, observe that he thought the questions which the hon. and learned Gentleman was in the habit of asking might be more appropriately put in the free Parliament which was now sitting at Turin.
 MR. LAYARD : We have no information on the subject.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that he could not agree with the hon. Member for Liskeard (Mr. B. Osborne) that this was a question simply of economy. It appeared to him to be a question whether the present system of expenditure on National Education was beneficial or injurious to that education. This at least seemed clear, that the opinions of all Members, on both sides of the House, were thus far agreed, that some revision was necessary in the present Education Code. The only question was as to the kind and mode of the revision. The Code itself was scarcely two years old, and it seemed rather young perhaps, for revision; but it must be borne in mind that the law on this subject had
 176 177 178 179 minimum maximum minimum minimum 180 181 182 183 minimum 184
 MR. SELWYN  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether the undermentioned Letters were not omitted from the "Copy of Correspondence between the Secretary of State for War and the Universities of Oxford, Cambridge, and Dublin, relating to Military Education," ordered by the House of Commons to be printed 11th March, 1862, and whether there is any objection to the production of those Letters—namely, Letter dated Cambridge, 23rd April, 1861, signed Latimer Neville, Vice Chancellor; Letter
 131
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that the Indian Department had received one Memorial, and he understood that others were on their way to this country. He did not think it advisable to present simply the one just received, though ultimately there would be no objection to present the whole of them.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, in reply, that the papers referring to this subject had only been received from the Governor of Malta that day. Such a Petition as that referred to had been presented to the Governor, but the precise terms of the answer were not stated. The Governor had naturally called for a Report from the head of the Police in a case involving the conduct of some of the officers within his own department. But the Governor also himself instituted a rigid inquiry into the circumstances, the result of which was to convince him that the reports which had reached this country were grossly exaggerated, and that the circumstances were really of a very trifling character. With respect to the last question of the hon. Gentleman, he (Mr. Fortescue) had heard nothing of the occurrence.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether a Memorial or Petition, signed by thirty gentlemen of Malta, has been addressed to the Governor of that Island, complaining of the conduct of the Police there in not effectually preventing, or conniving at, the riots which took place on the 9th and 10th of February; whether they were desired, in answer, to address any "evidence or explanation they might possess" on the subject to the Superintendent of Police; which they declined to do, on the ground that the inquiry should be made by authority "independent of the Department of the Executive Police;" and, whether it is the opinion of the Secretary of State for the Colonies that the Chief of the Police is the proper authority to be appointed to inquire into the conduct of his own Department, as between the inhabitants and that Establishment, in case of a complaint publicly preferred against it?
 MR. WHITESIDE : The question under discussion is one of national importance, because it relates to national education. A question of national education, however, is fortunately one in dealing with which men holding different opinions may meet on common ground; inasmuch as it is the province of the true statesman, to whatever political party he may belong, to teach the humblest of his fellow-countrymen his duty towards himself, as well as that which he owes to his neighbour, his Sovereign, and his God, and therefore he is bound to promote whatever in his opinion might be the best system of education The present great system of national education has existed for some time in this country, fostered by the liberality of Parliament. The advantages which that system confers are now called in question. The good which it has done is in a measure denied. We are asked to reconsider the course which we have pursued with respect to it—it may be, to retrace our steps. To enable us to do so, Her Majesty's Ministers have laid on the table a new scheme of education, slowly elaborated, and suddenly propounded: they have revised that scheme, with the view to make it more perfect, and then intrusted to a skilful and eloquent advocate the task of recommending it to the House. That advocate—the Vice President of the Committee of Council—has told us, that whereas our system of education has been heretofore experimental, it is now to become permanent: that whereas it was temporary, it is now to be made final. He has told us on behalf of the Government, which he is so well able
 138 139 140 141 142 143 144 "The religious and moral influence of the public schools appears to be very great—to be greater than even their intellectual influence; a set of good schools civlizes a whole neighbourhood. The most important function of the schools is that which they best perform." "The moral rectitude by which they are characterized gives evidence of their being placed under an habitual influence incalculably more important than any intellectual qualifications, and entitles our schoolmistresses to be pronounced one of the most praiseworthy and valuable classes of the community." 145 146 147 148 quantum 149 quantum "Had it been reported to us by the Inspectors as it has been by the Commissioners, that in many schools three-fourths of the children were not instructed, we should have withdrawn the grant from those schools altogether."
 MR. WHITESIDE : Three-fourths of the children. I give the right hon. Gentleman the benefit of the distinction. He only means to restore to ignorance three-fourths of the children, and to preserve three-fourths of the schools. But the point is this—having before him the reports of
 150 quantum quantum quantum 151 quantum quantum 152 quantum quantum Horace 153 154 "National education does not depend simply on the school training of one generation; the first generation of children in schools inherit some physical incapacity; they have no help at home from their parents; they are, on the contrary, much hindered from the bad example of rude household management, and the incapacity of parents to understand school training. The influence of the school is not felt until the parents themselves have been trained and instructed, or civilized by other influences." 155 "For some time past the masters have been in the receipt of large incomes; and considering what they are and the circumstances of their education, they have enjoyed a vast amount of prosperity. Some people might be disposed to think that the schoolmasters ought, therefore, to be very contented; but I will take the opportunity of reading a few lines from the report of one of the assistant commissioners." "Masters of National Schools are generally dissatisfied; their salary is far beneath that which an equal amount of skill and labour would command elsewhere; their position in society is lower than it ought to be, which is the fault of the
 156
 MR. WHITESIDE : I understand that perfectly, as the House will shortly find. The right hon. Gentleman proceeded to describe the condition of the British schoolmaster, and continued his quotation thus—
 "The British schoolmasters share the feelings of the National schoolmasters as to insufficient salaries, but fortunately they are free from priestly tyranny."
 MR. WHITESIDE : What, then, did the right hon. Gentleman mean? Probably he will explain when he again addresses the House. I repeat that in constructing his elaborate speech the right him. Gentleman designedly culled the only offensive passage in the evidence collected by Mr. Wilkinson, the assistant commissioner, to adorn his speech, and point it as a barbed arrow against the body he thought fit to censure. But, further. What is the fact with regard to this quotation? The right hon. Gentleman corrected me rightly when ho said he had not quoted from Mr. Wilkinson's "report." I had the curiosity to turn to the appendix to the Report of the Commissioners, and I was surprised to find that the passage was a condensation of answers of witnesses to a number of questions propounded to them. But Mr. Wilkinson in his report, not only disclaims the calumnious statement, but reports exactly the other way, and in a manner highly favourable to the clergy, the masters, and the existing establishment. The right him. Gentleman would have done well it' he had quoted from the report, instead of from a summary of evidence of an entirely opposite character, for the purpose of picking out from the evidence of a single witness a passage showing that the masters were a grumbling, dissatisfied, discontented set of men, who, so far from being of advantage to the country, were overpaid and treated too indulgently. There were twenty seven witnesses referred to by the Commissioner; of these twenty-six were members of the Church of England. The twenty-seventh witness was a Mr.R—: who he may be, I do not want more particularly to know; but he is described as "a schoolmaster in a poor neighbourhood in St. Paneras." The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Lowe) passed over the twenty-six witnesses entirely, and fixed upon this twenty seventh witness for the purpose of finding in his evidence the passage he quoted. This Mr. R.—says he is a dissenter. That is no reason why he should not be allowed to express his opinion whichever way it may be; but there is no reason why he should claim the right to speak for the general body of National schoolmasters; and I dispute the fairness of the right hon. Gentleman in picking out the quotation in order to announce to the English nation that the National schoolmasters are suffering from
 158 "I have a high admiration for the ability, zeal, and high tone of feeling, prevailing among the general body of masters and mistresses with whom I have been brought into contact in the progress of this inquiry." "It is sometimes alleged that they are conceited, that their behaviour to managers and persons connected with the school is not satisfactory, and that they are dissatisfied with their position. We have inquired into these assertions, and we do not think they are well founded. Cases of bad manners have appeared, but not enough to form a ground for any serious charge against the toasters as a class." 159 "The question as to what system of education is to prevail will be regulated by the opinion of those whose hands maintain it." "So long as it is the opinion of those who contribute to the maintenance of the schools that the present system is the right and the best one, so long will the present system continue." 160 161
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether, inasmuch as the Amendments in Clause 10 of the Fairs and Markets Bill impose a new penalty on all classes of Traders and Shopkeepers who sell by weight in Ireland, and as this new penalty is imposed in a Bill which was originally confined to Fairs and Markets, but which thus extends to every commercial trans action in which goods are sold by weight, he will postpone the next stage of the Bill till after Easter?
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : I cannot help suspecting from the tone of several passages in the able speech which has been made by the right hon. Gentleman who has just resumed his seat, that lie is rather inclined to dissent from the first position of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Walpole)—to dissent from it so far that he is disposed to infuse into this debate somewhat of a party spirit. Sir, I shall endeavour to steer clear of anything of the sort. I think that the discussion of all question, the solution of which is, of all others, so great a social problem, ought not to be dragged down to the narrow level of a party conflict. Now, the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has given us his ideas of the difference between a critic and a witness; but I must say, after having attentively listened to every word of his speech, he has displayed in reviewing this question more of the ingenuity of the critic than the fairness of the judge. The right hon. Gentleman, leaving Ireland aside, has taken up for the occasion, as regards education especially, the question of justice to Scotland. But when he speaks of the profound principle which the great Butler inculcates, and however he may have read Lord Macaulay, the right hon. Gentleman does not appear to have paid very close attention to the evidence which was given last year before the Select Committee on the Relief of the Poor in Ireland as to the morals of Scot land; because if he had read the testimony of Mr. Briscoe, he would have found that the morals of the ladies of that country are not altogether of the most brilliant description, and that the Scottish system of education has not promoted that particular virtue of which he is so great an admirer. So much for the Scotch portion of the subject, which has been somewhat unwisely, I think, introduced into this subject. 162 163 164 165 "In Scripture I find nothing commoner than a knowledge of such facts as the weight of Goliath's spear, the length of Noah's ark, or the dimensions of Solomon's Temple, by children who cannot ex plain the Atonement, the Sacraments, or the Parables with moderate intelligence, or tell the practical teaching of the Saviour's life." "The religious instruction of the children is unintelligent, and, to a great degree, confined to exercises of merely verbal memory." 166 167 "It may be said that the State has excited expectations in the minds of the teachers by the system of augmentation grants, which give them a moral right to their continuance. We do not think this really to be the case. The fact that under the present system the sums are voted annually, and not by a permanent charge upon the Consolidated Fund, shows that the State is not pledged to its permanence. Indeed, it is notorious that it has grown up by degrees, and that ever since its origin the propriety of replacing or altering it has been under discussion." 168 "A permanent settlement [of education] was at present quite out of the question; the arrangement contemplated was of a temporary nature, liable to be modified at pleasure, and revised at any moment, or enlarged if found to work well for the country." 169 "Those who in 1839 commenced the system did not intend its plan should be such as to pervade the whole country." "It you follow out the present system it will break down at its centre, without a much larger establishment than either Parliament or the country would be willing to grant." "Do you think it would be possible or desirable materially to reduce the existing amount of Government assistance?" "My own opinion is, that if the whole were withdrawn to-morrow, things would not fall back to what they were before by a very great deal." "The Committee of Privy Council is so overwhelmed with details it has not time to direct its attention to general measures. The system of placing the education of the country under the control of a department of the political Government appears vicious in the extreme." 170 171 172 "You mean, that taking the training schools, generally speaking, through the country, the supply is now greater than the demand?—I believe it will be so next year, if it is not this year [1859]. "If the Government turns out such a large supply, and pays for their support, does not it virtually discourage any other class of men from coming into the market?—I believe so. "And at the same time it is impossible that its own class of men should be paid for, because they ask such high salaries?—Yes. "The total expenditure for the training colleges might be diminished, and diminished with advantage?—I must confess that I think so; but, of course, it must be considered how far it would be keeping faith with those who have built and founded those colleges. "In point of fact, have the subscriptions fallen off since the Government have paid so much?—Yes, our subscriptions have fallen off from £ 1,500 to £ 300." 173 "The system has done the great good of improving education, it has also done the great harm of accustoming the educators to loan upon the Government; the more they are accustomed to lean on Government the less they are willing to stand on their own strength. I think the good is increasing, but that the evil is increasing much faster." "Can be more important than the education of our people; but is there no risk of injury to the cause itself by these lavish and wasteful subsidies—no risk of paralysing energies which we seek to stimulate, and of inducing, in place of vigorous individual effort, a most un-English reliance upon Government aid? I can have no hesitation in believing that that has already been in some cases the result of the present wasteful profusion." 174 "Its name is never heard; "Our lips are now forbid to speak "That once familiar word." 175 "A good type of school-teachers having now-been extensively introduced, the benefits of popular education having been manifested, and public interest in the subject having been thoroughly awakened, the Government should gradually abstain from making further grants, except grants for the building of schools, to which the public assistance was originally confined, and the discontinuance of which would be unfair towards the parishes which have hitherto received no assistance. The annual grants which are now made should be gradually withdrawn, and Government should confine its efforts to the improvement of union schools, reformatories, and schools connected with public establishments." "At least, they do not feel confident that the Government will ever be able to control the growing expenditure and multiplying appointments of a department the operations of which are regulated by the unceasing and varying demands of philanthropists rather than by the requirements of the public service."
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, he rose to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, When he proposes to introduce his promised Measure for the Registration of Marriages in Ireland and the equalizing the powers of the Unpaid and Stipendiary Magistrates?
 MR. LOWE  denied that that was his meaning.
 MR. LOWE  said, that he had not quoted the passage just read from the report of the assistant commissioner, but from the summary of the evidence contained therein.
 MR. LOWE : Not three fourths of the schools.
 MR. LOWE : The right hon. Gentleman who has just spoken (Sir J. Pakington) undertook to show two things—First, why he could not support the proposition
 215 216 spretæ injuria formæ "Arguing with force A motion of course," 217 "In fact, the question as to what system of education is to prevail will be regulated by the opinion of those whose hands maintain it. So long as it is the opinion of those who contribute to the maintenance of the schools that the present system is the right and the best one, so long will the present system continue." "As I am anxious, in addressing the House, to economize time, I will merely now say that it is not the intention of the Government to infringe on the organic principles of the present system—namely, its denominational character, its foundation on a broad religious basis, its teaching religion, and the practice of giving grants from the Central Office in aid of local subscriptions, the propriety of those grants to be ascertained by inspection. I do not require to wait until next Session to make this declaration."[3  Hansard, clxiv., 725 218 "Supposing that we gave half the grant upon the report of the Inspector (which would be the same as giving it absolutely, because they would be sure to get that), &c."[3  Hansard 219 220 221 "You speak of reading, writing, and a certain portion of arithmetic as the essential things, combined with a good knowledge of Scripture; and: you consider that in those essential points the schools in your district are very good?" "The good schools; many are very bad; a great number fall very short of a satisfactory standard, as is shown by our reports. I should also say that I scarcely should visit a school without pointing out that some one of those three subjects requires greater attention. In some schools the reading is bad comparatively; in some the penmanship is indifferent, and the I spelling not so good; and in others the arithmetic; but those three points in reality I consider the tests of a good school, and I attach more value to them because they are points which really can be ascertained positively." 222 minimum maximum minimum maximum 223 d 224 maximum 225 226 227 228 229 230
 MR. WALPOLE : In the very clever reply which my right hon. Friend has addressed to the House he has been conclusive on some points; but he has not been conclusive on three which I consider most important, and which I shall press when we go into Committee. First, the right hon. Gentleman thinks that the Revised Code will make no difference in the religious and moral training given in the schools. Under the present system a good moral and religious influence and discipline is brought to bear in those schools. I consider that a most important function of those schools. There is a positive reward now given for moral and religious pro-
 231
 MR. WALPOLE : I think I said the objects.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reference to a notice as to the Red Sea Telegraph which stood in
 134
 MR. ANGERSTEIN  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether Her Majesty's Government will consent during the present Session of Parliament to place the Rating of Greenwich Hospital upon the same footing already conceded to
 133
 MR. VANSITTART  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether he has received any and what Memorials from those Members of Her Majesty's Covenanted Civil Service who are now in India, praying for the redress of certain grievances; and, if so, whether he has any objection to place the same on the table of the House?
 MR. BAINES  said, that it was not his intention to engage in the battle of the Codes; but as the right hon. Gentleman invited the House of Commons to enter upon a general discussion with respect to the principles of both the past and the proposed system, he would call attention to an evil common to both. He felt that the public money was wasted on schools which needed least, or did not need at all, public assistance; while it was withheld from parts of the country where it was needed most. That fault had been admitted by all who had written and spoken during the present controversy, and the last speaker had pointed out the great difference which existed between the circumstances of different parts of the country, to which the same rigid rule was applied. It would be remembered that the vice President of the Committee of Council had told them on a recent occasion that the education grants were intended to aid in the education of the very poorest children. The President of the Committee of Council—speaking in another place—said the taxpayers of the country should not be called upon to contribute towards the education of those who were competent to pay for themselves. But he (Mr. Baines) believed that, to a very large extent, the enormous grant of £800,000 was at present lavished upon schools where the parents were perfectly able to pay for the education of their children; or where in other cases they were surrounded by a population so rich and liberal, and so perfectly appreciating the value of education, that there was not the slightest pretence of necessity for given the public money in aid of the schools in those districts. It seemed to him that the existing system was operating in a direction the very opposite almost of that which was intended—neglecting those in circumstances of great destitution, while squandering the public money to an enormous extent upon those who had not the smallest need for it. The Vice President of the Council, in his speech on the 13th of February, admitted that the foundation of a school was regulated rather by the wealth and the public spirit of the inhabitants than by the absolute wants of the locality. The richer the district the more money it got from the public—the poorer the district the less
 196 s d s d s d s s 197 198 "The present capitation grant is often absolutely wasted. People do not know what to do with it when they get it; it is absolutely surplus, and in some cases part of it has been given to the children who have earned it for the schools by their attendance." 199 "I was not prepared to find so general a disapproval of the capitation grants as a waste of public money. Several of the wealthy coal-owners, who had placed their schools under the Privy Council, chiefly with a view to the supervision and encouragement of the schoolmasters, remarked that these grants were but saving the pockets of themselves and others who were well able to support their own schools. Of the twenty-seven schools in my district receiving capitation money, I cannot say that one has need of it. Several of them have ample endowments, and all are supported by individuals or committees well able to meet the expenses." "A working man does not often spend more than one-twelfth of his income in the education of his children, a professional man, not unfrequently, one-fourth or one-filth." "Taking the Church schools in Yorkshire, we find the case thus: In above 70 per cent of them the school fees are under 3 d d "The low fee never makes a good school, nor does it even make a school popular. And as it does not succeed with the school, so it also mischievously affects the home. It tends to demoralize the parent, to teach him a bad thrift, to be grudging when he ought to be liberal in the education of his own child, to think little of and neglect his first duty to him, to leave it either undone at all or for others to do it for him." "I cannot now recall a case where a school has suffered permanently by its rate of payment being raised. I know several places where the school languishes, and is doing little good, with a fee of 1 d "The school fee is usually paid without reluctance—indeed, with cheerfulness—if the return is supposed to be adequate. Over and over again have I heard of persons offering to schoolmasters to pay more than the sum demanded, if additional attention could be thereby secured for the child's progress. Nothing is more common than to find parents removing their children from cheap schools to others whose charge is 6 d d 200 "Several remarkable instances were related to me of the beneficial effect of raising the fees. The British school in Redcross Street, of which Mr. Turner is the master, is one of the largest and best in Bristol. Some years ago the committee collected large sums of money, and made considerable improvements in the school. But funds were still wanting. They determined upon an appeal to the parents of the children, consisting of the working classes. They assembled them one evening, explained the reason why they had been invited, told them the improvements in the school and the money that had been subscribed, but declared that, notwithstanding, there was still a want of funds. If they would add 1 d d d d d "The workpeople thoroughly understand the distinction between a good and a bad school. I went into a ragged school one evening, and found some boys who were in the habit of paying for their day's schooling. I asked them whether they would be willing to pay the same fees in the evening school. They said 'Yes, provided the teaching was good.'" "In short the unanimous opinion expressed to me was that gratuitous education is a mistake; it demoralizes the parent by relieving him from the obligation of educating his child, and by destroying his sense of independence; but, besides this, the system is impracticable; for, without the cooperation of the parent, it is impossible to get the children to attend school regularly, and that cooperation can only be secured by compelling the parent to pay something for his child's education." "I have satisfied myself entirely that the payment of school fees is not only beneficial to the schools, but popular with parents, and that the usual commercial test of the price of the article as evidence of its value is applied in full force to education. I met several instances in private schools of children removed from schools at 2 d d "This fact strengthens the conviction pressed on me from many quarters, that the fees in public schools might advantageously be raised: in several instances I found that fees had been raised, and the uniform statement was that no diminution of attendance of any importance or continuance had ensued. When we consider that even at 2 d 201 in formâ pauperis s d d d 202 203 204
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER : The hon. Gentleman has not answered my question about the thirteen peasants.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he had no difficulty in acceding to the request made to him on the part of the Government. But he wished to take the opportunity of asking a question of the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, which he thought would convince the House that no unnecessary delay ought
 135 "NOTICE TO THE PUBLIC. "The undersigned, charged with the destruction of brigandage, promises a sum of 100 f contrebrigands Stella del Sud "The Captain of the guarda mobile was traversing the district of Salice, in the commune of Bernalda, and having met some of the shepherds of the country, asked them if they had seen an armed band. They answered in the negative. After some time it appeared that a sanguinary contest took place between the guard and an armed body. The captain, believing that he had, been deceived by the country people and shepherds, returned, after a period of three days, to the locality where he had met them, and there captured thirteen unfortunate countrymen, and
 136
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, it might be convenient that he should state that he did not intend to proceed with the Prosecutions Expenses Bill that night. He had been wailed upon by an influential deputation of Chairmen of Quarter Sessions and other gentlemen, and they all concurred in requesting him to postpone the Bill till after the Sessions, so that the Magistrates of Counties might have the opportunity of discussing it. He should, therefore, move that the Order for the Second Reading of the Bill be postponed till the 5th of May.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the hon. and learned Baronet (Sir G. Bowyer) had an important notice on the Paper for the next evening, to call attention to the affairs of Southern Italy, and to move for Papers. Now, his (Sir G. Grey's) noble Friend, Viscount Palmerston, was not able to be present in his place that night, and it was doubtful whether he would be able to be present the next night. The House would feel that it was most desirable that the noble Lord should be present when the subject was brought on; and therefore, in order that the House might have some certainty as to the course of procedure, he wished to ask the hon. and learned Baronet to name another day for the discussion. It was impossible to give a day for it next week before Friday. He would, therefore, ask the hon. and learned Baronet to postpone his Motion till that day.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, I wish to state to the House the reasons why I feel obliged to give my vote in support of the Resolutions of my Friend the right hon. Member for Cambridge University, and against the scheme laid before the House by the Government. I have, on many occasions, stated the views I entertain on this question. I have found no reason to change them, and I think they are confirmed by the Report of the Royal Commissioners and by the speeches of the Vice President of the Committee of Council. Whatever may be our opinions of this Revised Code, there can be no doubt of the great ability and the praiseworthy labour and attention the right hon. Gentle-
 205 206 207 minimum minimum 208 "We have dwelt fully both on the merits and defects of the present system. We have found it stimulating voluntary subscriptions, offering many excellent models of teaching, and adapting itself to the character of the people by leaving both the general management of the schools and their religious teaching free. On the other hand, we have exposed great and growing defects in its tendency to indefinite expense, in its inability to assist the poorer districts, in the partial inadequacy of its teaching, and in the complicated business which encumbers the central office of the Committee of Council; and these defects have led us to believe that any attempt to extend it unaltered into a national system would fail. We have therefore proposed, while retaining the leading principles of the present system, and simplifying its working, to combine with it a supplementary and local system which may diffuse a wider interest in education, may distribute its burdens more equally, and may enable every school in the country to participate in its benefits." 209 210
 SIR JOHN PAK1NGT0N : I am glad to hear that important correction from my right hon. Friend, but I think I have heard other hon. Gentlemen say that they were willing to adopt the principle of the Revised Code. I am prepared to contend that the Revised Code raises no principle. There is a great principle now under discussion, that of assisting the education of the working classes of this country by grants voted by this House, to be distributed among the schools which should prove themselves worthy of assistance; and that principle has been in action from the moment at which the Privy Council system came into operation. I contend that the question before us is not one of principle, but is essentially one of detail—namely, what is the best mode of carrying out that intention of the House of Commons? Perhaps, the right hon. Gentleman will tell me that the principle at stake is the principle of paying by results; but, I contend that that principle, also, has been in operation ever since the commencement of the system, and that the only question is how you are to ascertain those results. We have never paid money to any schools except upon the assurance of the Inspectors that the results were satisfactory. The details
 211 "In the first place, all who are acquainted with the Revised Code are aware that school managers will now be required to incur additional pecuniary responsibility. In the case of the schools of Hales Owen (his own parish), the sums to be provided will be in 1862, £125; in 1868, £142, and in 1861, £155. To these sums must be added for certificated teachers £45, making the total liability for each of the three years, £170, £187, and £190. Is it wonderful that we should object to find ourselves in so hazardous a predicament?" 212 213 214
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  replied, that it was his intention to ask leave to-morrow to introduce the Bill.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he should be sorry to proceed with the Markets and Fairs (Ireland) Bill against the wishes of hon. Gentlemen from Ireland, but he thought the matter of so much importance that he wished to continue until the Bill had passed through all its stages.
 MR. COWPER  replied, that the sum expended was £3,900, and he thought there was every probability that the additional Vote to which the hon. Member alluded would be required before the Estimate of next year, 1862–3, became available. The State Paper Office would be pulled down, as the House was informed last year.
 MR. HEYGATE  said, that the commercial community were under the greatest obligation to the hon. Gentleman for bringing that subject forward; for it was not merely a question of free trade, but one affecting the material interests of the country. He could quite confirm the statement of his hon. Friend relative to the answers which chambers of commerce had received from Government as to the
 238
 MR. SOMERSET BEAUMONT  said, that he considered it his duty, as representing a large manufacturing town, to express how very strongly all the manufacturers in the North of England felt upon this subject. A distinct hope had been held out to the country last session by the noble Lord at the head of the Government, and by the noble Earl the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, that the negotiations between this country and Belgium for a commercial treaty would be brought to a successful termination. It was now stated that these negotiations had been suspended. He sincerely hoped that the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs would be able to allay the feeling of disappointment which now existed.
 MR. PACKE  observed, that Monday
 247
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was about to make the same observation. Monday week would certainly not be convenient to many Members of the House. He must also say the subject to be considered was highly technical in its nature. The House had now for the first time heard the announcement that there was to be a change in the scheme of the Government; but the value of the concessions which had been made would very much depend on the language in which they were presented to the House; therefore, until hon. Members had the reprint of the measure before them, it would be very difficult to say how long a time ought fairly to be given. He quite agreed with the right hon. Baronet that it was desirable not to keep the matter longer under discussion than was absolutely necessary. But obviously the proposed change would most deeply affect two classes immediately interested—masters and pupil-teachers—as regarded the incidence, or rather the application, of the fund that might arise from the examination or capitation grant; and it would be very desirable that masters should have an opportunity of seeing how far that would affect the concession previously made to them in the Revised Code, because it did not at present exactly appear who was to have priority in this matter. It was very material, at all events, that the parties most interested should have the opportunity of seeing what their fate was likely to be. He quite agreed with his right hon. Friend (Mr. Walpole) that the language shadowed out as likely to be used with regard to the capitation paid on the inspector's reports would be satisfactory. The right hon. Gentleman had consented to relieve them from their difficulty in that respect. In his own justification he could only say, that if he were himself one of the "weak brethren" upon whom the right hon. Gentleman had deigned to have compassion, many of the religious bodies throughout the country laboured under the same misfortune. He thought the Government deserved great credit for the course they had adopted in dealing with this most difficult subject. It had long been evident that some change must be made in the existing system, and it would have been almost a sin for any hon. Member to have made the present a party question. The whole country had a
 248
 VISCOUNT ENFIELD  said, he was sure every one must have heard with pleasure the very conciliatory speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education, and the House would do well to agree to the proposal made by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Cambridge University (Mr. Walpole), in order that the propositions of the Government might go forth to the public and be fairly considered by the country. As the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Lowe) had alluded to an Amendment which he had ventured to place on the table yesterday evening, he might be allowed to say, that if it met with the approval of the Committee of Council on Education, and received the general support of the House, he should wish that whatever credit was due to it should be ascribed to the proper quarter. He had no right to allude to a debate that had taken place elsewhere; but if he might put the case hypothetically, he should say, that if a right rev. prelate for whom he entertained deep respect, and who had been himself no mean worker in the cause of education, had suggested a mode by which conflicting interests might be reconciled, it was to that quarter that the credit of his Amendment should be given. He felt thankful that so humble an individual as himself had been in any way instrumental in bringing about such an arrangement. From the tone and temper of the debate, to which he had listened throughout with the deepest interest, he anticipated the most admirable results; and he had only to add, that if his Amendment were accepted, he should have great pleasure in agreeing to the verbal alterations suggested by the right hon. Gentleman.
 VISCOUNT ENFIELD  said, he wished to ask the Chairman of Ways and Means, Whether his attention has been called to the extraordinary powers which are sought, and have been sanctioned by Private Bill Committees to Electric Tele-
 233
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether any, and, if so, what steps have been taken by Her Majesty's Government to obtain redress at the hands of the Government of Paraguay for the owners of the steamer  Little Polly
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he wished his hon. Friend had deferred putting his questions until the next month, when he should be able to give him more definite information with respect to Portsmouth Harbour than he was at present able to afford. With regard to the first question he might observe, that his hon. Friend had correctly stated the depth of water in that harbour on the 17th, 18th, and 19th, of the current month. On the morning of the 20th, it was 29 ft. 3½ in the afternoon 28 ft. 9½in. With regard to the second question, the draught of water of Her Majesty's ship  Warrior
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, What sum remains in hand, at the present date, of the £60,000 already Voted for the New Foreign Office: and whether the additional Vote of £15,000 will be expended within the present year? He wished also to know, whether it is the intention of the Government to pull down the State Paper Office, which was built only thirty years ago?
 MR. LAYARD  said, that Her Majesty's Government were fully alive to the great importance of the subject. He was not surprised that the hon. Member for Bradford (Mr. W. E. Forster) should have put his question, and that he and other hon. Members representing manufacturing districts were much disappointed at the answer with respect to the Belgian Treaty which he had felt it his duty to give the other evening. It was quite true that last Session Her Majesty's Ministers were, he might say, under the conviction that the Belgian Government were about to enter into a commercial treaty with this country, which was to contain the most favoured nation clause, and to place England upon the same footing as France and other nations with which Belgium had concluded treaties of commerce. The Belgian Government stated as a reason for not concluding the Treaty last year, that the Belgian Chambers had risen before it was possible to submit it to their approval. To the surprise of Her Majesty's Government, the Government of Belgium in the autumn of last year declared for the first time their unwillingness to enter into a treaty of commerce with this country without a special condition—the
 239 240
 MR. LAYARD  replied, that owing to various circumstances, the diplomatic relations between the Government of Paraguay and the Government of this country were suspended, and, consequently, no direct communication on the subject of this vessel had taken place; but late last year Her Majesty's Government were in formed that the Government of Paraguay were disposed to submit the matter to arbitration. In January last, Her Majesty's Government intimated that in that case they would not be disinclined to concur in a reference to arbitration; but they had as yet heard nothing in reply to that intimation. As it was a "running-down case," something, no doubt, was to be said on both sides; and Her Majesty's Government did not, consequently, intend to exact reparation by force, before a full and careful inquiry had been made.
 MR. DISRAELI : I apprehend, Sir, after the statement that has been made by Her Majesty's Government, that it is not very probable that the Committee, at least to-night, will be called upon to pronounce any opinion on the Amendment of the noble Lord. I think myself that the Government have acted with great wisdom and propriety in deferring as they have to the unmistakable opinion expressed by both sides of this House; and I think it unnecessary to assure them that when an Administration, dealing with a question of
 245 246
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that great anxiety existed to know on what day the Government would proceed with the further consideration of this question. His right hon. friend the Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) had reminded the Committee that Quarter Sessions would take place on the day that had been proposed by the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department; and it would be very hard if hon. Members, merely because they were absent performing unpaid services to the country, were thereby deprived of the opportunity of expressing their opinions and giving their votes in Parliament on a subject of such general interest as that of popular education. Then, again, the Thursday following would be the day before the House was to rise for the recess, and would scarcely be a fit occasion for the consideration of such an important question. He trusted, therefore, that the Government would entertain his suggestion for taking the discussion on an early day after Easter.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he desired, on the part of his constituents, to express his deep satisfaction at the announcement of the right hon. Gentleman the Vice President of the Committee of Council. At the same time he desired to direct the
 249
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, that he could confirm the statements of the hon. Gentleman as to the dissatisfaction which existed on this subject throughout the manufacturing districts of the country. He hoped the Government would not cease to press this matter upon the attention of the Belgian Government.
 MR. LOWE : Sir, I have to solicit the indulgence of the House for a minute or two, in order to make a short statement on behalf of the Government. The Government have, since the House met last, taken into consideration the debate with which the House has been occupied during the earlier part of the week, and they have come to the conclusion that they ought, as far as is consistent with their duty to the public purse and the public service, to meet the views so gene rally expressed by hon. Members of all parties in the course of the recent discussion. I shall not trouble the House with any lengthened preliminary remarks. It is our wish, as I stated last night, to bring this controversy to a settlement—not a
 241 242
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, I must congratulate the Committee on the frank and gene-
 243 244
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he understood that the Government merely named Monday next for the consideration of the question in order that the noble Lord at the head of the Government might be in his place, and be afforded the opportunity of stating his opinion as to the day on which the discussion ought to take place. The Government would then communicate with his (Mr. Walpole's) side of the House as to the precise day determined upon.
 MR. W E. FORSTER  said, he wished to express the very great pleasure with which he had heard the statement of the right hon. Gentleman the Vice President of the Committee of Council, and also the hope it afforded him that the issue of the discussion in which the House had been engaged would be the real and permanent improvement of the system of popular education. The alteration suggested by the right hon. Gentleman in the Motion of which the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex (Viscount Enfield) had given notice was, in his opinion, an amendment upon that Motion; and if the right hon. Gentleman brought forward a measure founded on the principles he had shadowed forth, three important objects would be thereby secured—first, that a part of the grant would be paid on the report of the Inspectors, without which the managers could scarcely support the schools; and by securing payment to the masters, the managers would see that the work of the school was really done. The next point was that the concession made would give a part of the grant for individual examination, which would also be a great improvement; and lastly, these alterations would create a greater stimulus in the cause of education. If the right hon. Gentleman had any doubt as to whether, under the modified kind of examination that he had consented to propose, sufficient stimulus would be applied to elementary instruction, let him consult some of the most practical managers of schools on that head, and his misgivings would probably be set at rest. If the right hon. Gentleman carried out a scheme according to these principles, he would at some little, perhaps at no slight, sacrifice of his individual convictions, held with very great earnestness, and supported with very great courage, succeed in producing a great reform without injuring, or running the chance of destroying, a most important system.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, If he can inform the House why the negotiation of a Commercial Treaty with Belgium, for the purpose of securing that Belgium shall no longer impose differential duties on British goods, has been suspended? He observed that the answer which had been given to the question he put the other night by the hon. Member the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs, had created so much disappointment in commercial circles, and especially amongst the manufacturers of the north of England, that it was most desirable to obtain some information as to the causes which had led to the suspension of the negotiation. For many years this
 237
 MR. MASSEY  said, with regard to the particular Bill to which his noble Friend had referred, it was now before the other House; in the event of its coming down to this House, if it contained anything objectionable it would be his duty to call attention to it. With regard to the more general question, he must say that extra ordinary powers, similar to those now granted to Electric Telegraph Companies were to be found in various Private Bills so far back as 1846. He, however, must agree with his noble Friend that those powers were of an unusual kind, and ought to be watched with very great vigilance. The power to deal upon short notice with streets, highways, and thoroughfares—to take up the roads and lay down posts and wires along places of public resort—was a power which ought not to be lightly granted by that House; and yet Parliament had thought proper in several instances to grant it. With regard to any future attempt that might be made by private speculators to obtain such powers, he agreed so far with his noble Friend as to think that it might be proper for Parliament to consider whether it would not be necessary, by means of Standing Orders or by legislation, to impose some restrictions upon persons seeking to deal with roads and thoroughfares in that way.
 SIR GEOEGE GREY : Sir, the Government must feel gratified at the manner in which their proposition has been received, and they can have no wish to press the Committee for a hasty decision; but I fear that the proposal I am about to make will scarcely meet the views expressed by the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down. I do not think it desirable to keep up the agitation which exists on this question longer than may be absolutely necessary; and if the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge will accede to it, I beg to propose that the chairman now report progress, and ask leave to sit again on Monday week. I think it is important that the question should not be indefinitely postponed, but that, if possible, it should be settled before Easter, as the country ought not to be left in uncertainty about it. Let the matter now stand for Monday week, subject to any arrangement that may be made between the right hon. Gentleman and the Government.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that her Majesty's Government would fix Monday next for the discussion of the question, with an understanding that it was not to come on then. The noble Lord at the head of the Government would probably then be in his place, and would state the day to which the further consideration of
 250
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, what were the returns at the Royal Dock yard, Portsmouth, of the height of water on the Bar of the Harbour Channel each, tide on the 17th, 18th, 19th, and 20th of
 235 Warrior 236 Warrior Warrior
 LORD BURGHLEY  said, he rose to second the Motion. His hon. and gallant Friend had entered so fully into his reasons for asking the House to resolve that the militia should have a further period for training, that he (Lord Burghley) should not consider it necessary to trouble the House with any lengthened observations. Having, however, since the organization of the militia in 1852, been intimately connected with that force, he trusted that the House would allow him to say a few words in support of the Motion of his hon. and gallant Friend. He could assure the House, speaking from experience, that twenty-one days were not sufficient to instruct the militiaman in all that it was necessary for him to know in order to make him an efficient soldier. The modern improvements in firearms rendered it more necessary than ever that a longer time should be devoted to the instruction of the militiamen in the use of their rifles. It was no longer of such advantage to teach the soldier how to load and fire as quickly as possible; but it was all-important that he should be instructed upon certain principles, without the thorough knowledge of which the rifle placed in his hands would be a comparatively useless weapon. The period allowed by the Government for musketry instruction was six days. That time was wholly insufficient. He held in his hand a letter from an officer who, from his having passed a long time at Hythe, was of course competent to express an opinion on that subject, and this gentleman stated that the period allowed by the Government for musketry drill was quite inadequate to impart the instruction that was absolutely necessary, and without which, the militia, as a force, would be comparatively useless in times of emergency Sixteen days, at least, should be devoted to teaching the soldier the use of his rifle. Owing to the improvements in modern gunnery, it was especially necessary that the militia should be instructed in light infantry movements. He believed that the great majority of the force was only partially instructed in light infantry drill, and that the remainder possessed no knowledge whatever of those movements. He therefore thought that the twenty-eight days asked for by his hon. Friend—a period which was strongly recommended in the report of the Royal Commission—was not an hour too much to devote to the training of the militia. In order to show the House that he was not exaggerating the
 259 260
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : The hon. and gallant Gentleman the Member for Ayrshire, at the commencement of his speech, proved with elaboration certain points which I think he was entitled to assume without so much expenditure of argument. In the first place, he proved that the militia was an ancient constitutional force; that it was to be considered as an army of reserve; and that it was highly valuable to the country in the event of danger from invasion. The hon. and gallant Member then proceeded to establish this proposition, that four weeks of drill would render a regiment more efficient than three weeks, and that it was not expedient that a military force should be insufficiently exercised. I should have been quite prepared to concede as much as that to the hon. and gallant Member without any formal proof. But, as he truly remarked on proceeding to deal more closely, with the subject, this is substantially a question of expenditure, and the House must choose between submitting to the privation of a certain amount of military efficiency or incurring a considerable increase of expenditure. Now, the Government had to choose the best and safest means which they could under the existing circumstances; and I think, when I state the facts to the House, it will be of opinion that it is better to acquiesce in the
 261
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Why the Pegu prize money, arising from the sale of prize property captured in Pegu in 1852 and 1853, and ordered to be distributed by Order in Council of the 12th day of September, 1860, has not yet been so, and when it will be?
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he rose to call the attention of the Secretary of State for War to the reports of an engagement between the American iron-clad frigate in the naval service of the Confederate States, called the  Merrimac Monitor Merrimac 264 Merrimac Merrimac Merrimac Monitor 265 Monitors Monitor 266 The Times Merrimac Warrior Merrimac 267 Merrimac Merrimac Monitor Merrimac 268
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : At all events, I may state that the cost of 28 days' training and 14 days' preliminary drill would be £ 757,000, the cost of 28 days' training and seven days' preliminary drill would be £ 749,000, while the cost of 21 days' training and seven days' preliminary drill (or less than we propose) would be £ 689,000. The question for the House to consider is, whether the proposal of the Government is adequate to the requirements of the country. It appeared to us, looking to the state of foreign affairs, to the existence of a large body of Volunteers, and the strength of the regular army, that 21 days' training for the militia, with 14 days' preliminary drill for recruits, would be sufficient. The hon. Gentleman says it would be far preferable to reduce the strength of the militia regiments from 800 to 700 men, and increase the number of days' training. That, no doubt, is an opinion which anybody may fairly entertain. But I am strongly inclined to think, that if
 262
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, he thought it was clear that twenty-four days' training were not enough to make the men efficient. His object in rising was to suggest what he believed to be the best course the Government could adopt under the circumstances—namely, that of reducing the number of the regiments and increasing the number of days' training. The right hon. Baronet seemed to anticipate that there would be an outcry against reducing the regiments, and that a difficulty would be felt in afterwards obtaining recruits. But if he consulted officers of experience, as to the number of men brought on parade for drill, he would find that nearly two-thirds of the present complement of the regiments would be sufficient, and that there would be no real difficulty, if the men were required, in bringing them up again to the full standard. By following that plan the Government would save the recruiting money and would prevent desertion. The commanding officers, too, would have a greater control over the men, who would form an efficient nucleus, because they would belong to their own respective neighbourhoods.
 LORD ADOLPHUS VANE TEMPEST  said, that as he had seen the  Merrimac Monitor 275 Merrimac
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : Sir, two questions have been raised during this debate. One has been raised by the hon. and gallant Member for Chatham, of which he gave notice—namely, whether the recent action on the coast of America has given the Government any reason why they should stop the forts in course of construction near Portsmouth. Another, but a much wider question, has been raised by my hon. Friend the Member for Galway—whether, in consequence of that engagement, we should not entirely alter the whole character and structure of our navy, and abandon wooden ships in order to build nothing but iron ships. It has been suggested that the revolutionizing our naval defences will lead to a great economy of the public money. I must venture to express my opinion that, from all the experience which we have had of revolutionizing our armaments, a new system of defence is likely to lead, not to a diminution, but to a great increase of public expenditure; and that, in fact, nothing is so expensive as a systematic change of armaments on a great scale. I do not say that it may not be necessary, in consequence of the experience of the recent engagement, to make a vast change in our naval defences. I am not expressing any opinion upon that subject and its necessity; but I warn the House against entertaining any expectation that that change can be made otherwise than by a corresponding large sacrifice of public money. I think it will be more convenient to the House not to enter into that large discussion at the present moment. It is, in fact, a question mainly affecting the Naval Estimates. If the House-be of opinion that this revolution is to be effected, I apprehend it will probably be the duty of
 276 "1. We adhere with the utmost confidence to the opinion we formerly expressed as to the necessity for the forts for the protection of Spithead, more especially as regards the two outer works on No-Man's Land and Horse Sand, which give protection to the anchorage as a harbour of refuge for an inferior force of our own fleet, and for merchant vessels, which the 'Spit' and 'Intermediate' forts cannot afford, owing to the depth of water near them being insufficient for anchoring purposes. These two outer defences also command the space more effectually which might be occupied for the purpose of bombardment, and would take in reverse any ships which had succeeded in forcing the passage. The work on the Starbridge is, in our opinion, only second in importance to the two just mentioned. It completes the circle of defences which will afford a concentrated fire on the anchorage, provides a second line against an enemy attempting the passage of the Solent, and gives shelter to floating defences which might have been obliged to retire before a superior force either from the outer entrance to Spithead, or from the defence of the passage of the Needles." "2. We consider the mixed scheme of defence by forts and auxiliary iron-cased vessels to be the only practicable mode of effecting the object in view. 3. We are of opinion that no time should be lost in commencing the forts, and in constructing as many iron-cased vessels as are essentially necessary for the above purpose." 277 Warrior Merrimac 278 "The success of the Rodman gun has induced our Government to try experiments on a scale still larger, and they are about constructing guns of 20-inch bore, throwing shot of 1,000lb, which, it is thought, will crush in the side of any iron-plated ship, no matter what the thickness of the plates."
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, he was glad that the question had been raised. He had always pressed upon the Government that the greatest caution ought to be observed in following out the principle of iron shipbuilding. Two years ago opinions were very much divided upon the question whether the forts at Spithead should be built or not; and two different reports were made, one by the commission upon which Sir Richard Dundas sat, and the other by the defence Committee. The question was, what was the use of solid fortifications built in the water when they could have equally solid fortifications in the shape of iron vessels, which could be moved where they were wanted? Of course, if the defence were required on a spot where it must be on land, there was no choice; but, otherwise, there was no comparison between the advantages of the two kinds of defence. Two years ago the hon. and
 281
 MR. PEEL  observed, that the Government were rather entitled to credit than censure for the existence of the balances to which the hon. Gentleman had referred. Most of those votes had not been passed till very late in the Session; the exist-
 303
 MR. PEEL  said, that it was not quite settled; but, if legislation was necessary, a Bill would be introduced.
 MR. PEEL  said, that the Government had been anxious to lay all the Miscellaneous Estimates before the House at the earliest possible day, but accuracy was quite as important as despatch, and it was impossible that they should undergo the revision of the Treasury, and yet be produced at an earlier period. It had not been usual for the Financial Secretary to the Treasury to make a general statement upon the Civil Service Estimates corresponding to the statement of the Secretary of State for War or the Secretary to the Admiralty. The reason was that there was no connection between the different classes of Votes, nor did they hang together, like the Estimates of the army and navy. For
 305
 MR. PEEL : They are sums that are called balances, and are the unexhausted remains of the Votes of last year. During the coming year the balances will be surrendered to the Exchequer.
 MR. PEEL : Yes.
 MR. COWPER  said, it had not been the practice to insure Government property, but every precaution was taken against fire. With regard to the question of the noble Lord (Lord W. Graham), a sum of £475 was taken for cleaning and varnishing the pictures and cartoons at Hampton Court. The cleaning would be executed under the direction of Mr. Redgrave, superintendent of the Royal pictures, by the most competent persons. The pictures at Hampton Court had not been touched for many years, and many were perishing for want of varnish, and were obscured by the dirt on the surface. The cleaning of these pictures was a delicate matter, and Mr. Redgrave would be responsible for the manner in which it was done. The great cartoons of Raphael were already under glass, and
 306
 MR. COWPER  said, that the balance in the Exchequer of the Vote for 1861–2 was £34,000. Of that sum £10,000 might be treated as a surplus, and would not be wanted. The House would not be asked to vote that amount again. The balance arose from the great economy of the department.
 MR. COWPER  said, that by the exercise of economy the whole amount estimated had not been expended.
 MR. COWPER  said, he could not admit that the arrangement of the Estimates was justly open to criticism. He did not think the expenses mentioned by the hon. Member (Mr. A. Smith) could fairly be includ-
 308
 MR. COWPER  said, he deeply deplored the necessity of pulling down the State Paper Office. The fact was, however, that the site which had been obtained for he new Foreign Office and the new India Office could not be made available unless that step was taken. It was true that the existing State Paper Office had cost about £40,000; but in reality it was not at present worth more than half that sum, as a large portion of that expenditure had been incurred from a want of the knowledge of the use of concrete in laying the foundations of a building upon so treacherous a soil. The new India Office would be erected on the very spot occupied by the State Paper Office, and it would be impossible to make its elevation harmonize with the rest of the proposed new edifice. The "late Stationery Offices" to which the hon. Member (Mr. Hunt) had referred had been taken by the Government on lease, and could not be given up till the lease was expired, but they were let at the same: sums as those set down in the Votes. In reference to the Tithe and Copyhold Commissioners, he had to observe that many additional duties had of late years been thrown upon them, and that at present
 310
 MR. COWPER  said, he quite agreed that the fountains were in a condition that Englishmen might well be ashamed of. But he would venture to promise that in the month of May they would be such as every Englishman would be proud of. The House was good enough last year to vote a gum of money for increasing the supply of water for the fountains. Works for that purpose were in progress, and the new jets with which he proposed to fill the surface of the basins would produce a very ornamental effect. The water which supplied the fountains was, for economy's sake, water which had been used in the condensing part of the engine, and which was thereby raised to a very considerable heat. It was then sent out to cool as a fountain, and again returned to the condensing part of the engine.
 MR. COWPER  said, that stables had been attached to the Chancellor of the Exchequer's official residence in Downing Street; and as that building had been given up for public purposes, it became necessary to rent stables in Middle Scotland Yard. With respect to the houses
 312
 MR. COWPER  said, that the suggestion of the hon. Member should have his best
 313
 MR. COWPER  said, the Gallery was at present sufficient for the purpose of the exhibition which there existed; but probably some other accommodation would soon be required. When a plan should be adopted, it would be laid before the House.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, the cost of furniture for the army clothing depot ought to appear in the Military Estimates. The depot, he believed, was built by private parties, and hired by the War Department.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  explained, that the expense of the furniture for the public offices used formerly to be included in the general Vote for each department; but, in consequence of remarks made in that House it was thought desirable that all the furniture should be supplied by the Board of Works and appear in one separate list.
 MR. COWPER  said, that that was a mistake. No money had been taken for furniture in the Votes for those departments. The Vote was to supply glass cases, presses, &c., for the exhibition of articles, chairs for visitors, and other similar articles necessary for such exhibitions.
 MR. COWPER  replied, that the Vote under consideration had nothing to do with the Vote of last year. It was for different purposes.
 MR. COWPER  said, the hon. Baronet was quite right to remind the hon. Member for Stirlingshire that Holyrood had its share; but the hon. Baronet, if be had read a little further, would have found that there was a Vote for the expenses of the Phaenix Park.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he should protest against the continuance of the large annual outlay for the metropolitan parks, to which the term "Royal" could, in no sense, be applied. In order to test the feeling of the House on the subject, he would move the reduction of the Vote by £7,515, the item for Battersea Park.
 MR. COWPER  said, he suspected that although the hon. Gentleman represented a metropolitan constituency he did not represent metropolitan opinions. The municipality of which he spoke was the offspring of his own imagination, and in his dreams perhaps he fancied himself at the head of it. If such a body really existed, under such a chief, he would be glad to allow them to provide the expenditure for the parks; but he would require, if not the payment of arrears, at least a guarantee for future expenses. If the ratepayers constituted the municipality in question, he doubted whether the proposal of the hon. Gentleman would meet with their approval. Every one must acknowledge that these parks ought to be maintained. The money which they cost was spent as well as, if not
 317
 MR. COWPER  said, he could assure the Committee that no money was spent
 319
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he had no great faith in the decisions of Committees, knowing how they were often constituted. At the same time, if it were the general wish, he would withdraw his Motion.
 MR. COWPER  said, with respect to Kennington Park, that it was desirable the grass should be kept in existence, and that consequently the public were excluded from walking on it at some seasons, of the year. There was not, he felt assured, a shilling spent on Kennington Park which was not well laid out. Great numbers of people frequented it; but if he were to give all the details of the expenditure in connection with it, it would, he feared, be only to weary the House without leading to any useful result. So far as Kew Gardens were concerned, he
 321
 MR. COWPER  said, that he was able to furnish the Committee with the details of the expenditure for Kennington Park. They consisted of a number of items, amongst which might be enumerated £421 for police constables and night watchmen, £645 for plantations and shrubberies and flowers, £100 for keeping up walks, £65 for watering footpaths, a superintendent engaged at an expense of £20, and £65 for lodge and railings. Then there were gratuities in aid of funeral expenses to the amount of £5; that was a contribution estimated for in case a death occurred. In the event of its not being required for that purpose, it was devoted to medical aid or relief in sickness. The Committee must also bear
 322
 THE CHAIRMAN  intimated, that as the sense of the Committee had already been taken on the whole Vote, it was not competent for the hon. Member to propose the reduction of any particular item.
 MR. COWPER  said, that if the Amendment was carried, the result would be that the park would not give as much enjoyment as at present. He should deeply regret any such result, for the effect would be felt in the happiness and comfort of the poorer classes.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he hoped that the hon. Gentleman would not persevere with his Amendment. He had been indebted to several hon. Members on both sides of the House for suggestions and improvements in the measure. Nor was it fair to say the Bill had been prepared in a hurry. He had been requested by a committee of artists to introduce such a measure, the object being to place copyright in works of art on the same footing as that in literary works, sculptures, and engravings. The artists were at first opposed to the plan of a register; but finally their objections were removed. The object of the register was to afford absolute protection to every purchaser of a work of art after it had left the artist's hand. There was a difficulty in the way of a register of works of art, for a requisition to register would operate as an interference with the productions of artists; but no one could be injured by the Bill as it stood, and he hoped, that as it had reached that stage, it would not be opposed.
 MR. LINDSAY  supported the second reading of the Bill.
 MR. HODGSON  said, that if the proposition for discussing the Bill before going into Committee were adopted, they might as well postpone the second reading at once, unless they went into Committee immediately after that discussion. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman would proceed with the second reading.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the Bill would not apply to all the colonies, as its phraseology confined its operation to such colonies and possessions of the Crown as already possessed Courts with authority to issue the writ of  Habeas Corpus
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he had no ambition to serve upon the Committee, but he thought the Irish Members ought not to be ignored.
 MAJOR HAMILTON  objected to the claims of Irish Members being ignored in the selection of a Committee.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he thought no sufficient justification of the Vote for Greenwich Park had been given. In his opinion, the charge for keeping such a residence as that of the Ranger's in repair—a residence which was occupied free from rent—ought not, every time a change of occupants took place, to be thrown on the public.
 LORD ELCHO  observed, that one of the chief items for Kennington Park was a charge for night watchers, their liveries, their wages, and their funerals. Sir Richard Mayne had informed him, that if the parks were not closed at night, they would necessarily come into his charge, and be included in the regular beats of the police. He therefore suggested, as a means of getting rid of the charge for night watchers, that the gates of the park should not be shut at night. The Green Park was closed each evening, and there was no watcher left in charge of it. If any park required care at night, that park did, situated as it was in the centre of London.
 VISCOUNT ENFIELD  said, he thought that the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the War Office would do well if he followed the suggestions offered by the hon. and gallant Member for Ayrshire—namely, of giving the commanding officers, the
 263
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : There is a ship now building on that plan.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Sir, I must say that I think my right hon. Friend the Member for Droitwich (Sir John Pakington) has rather misled the House as to what was said by my right hon. Friend, the Secretary of State for War. What he said, as I understood him, was—and with that I entirely concur—that important as is the event which has recently occurred on the other side of the Atlantic, it shown nothing so decided as to the merits of iron-cased vessels of which we were previously ignorant as to oblige the Government suddenly to set aside a plan which has been
 284 Warrior 285 Monitor 286 Monitor Monitor Monitor
 LORD. WILLIAM GRAHAM  said, it appeared from the Vote that money had been paid for cleaning pictures at Hampton Court Palace. He wished to ask what pictures had been subjected to such treatment, and why a practice which had been given up at the National Gallery was still adopted at Hampton Court Palace?
 MR. AYRTON  said, he would remind the right hon. Gentleman that an Act of Parliament had already been passed which intrusted the Metropolitan Board of Works with the making of any new parks. That Board constituted the municipality of London, as the right hon. Gentleman ought to know. With that explanation he would leave the Chief Commissioner of Works to justify the taste of personal reflections upon him, (Mr. Ayrton), which were as unfounded as they were absurd.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he held that the parks of London were a source of almost more enjoyment to people from the country than to the inhabitants. The fact was that country folks were so stifled by the smoke of the metropolis that they were glad to resort to the parks for a mouthful of fresh air. He believed that the municipality of London would have no objection to maintain the parks not Royal, if the Government would transfer them to their hands. The Chief Commissioner of Works, however, took delight in managing them himself; and if the country indulged him in that luxury, it must be paid for. He saw no reason why the parks should cost a farthing. Under the charge of the municipality they would no longer be a charge on the public revenne. That was a subject which deserved reconsideration, and the Amendment of the hon. and gallant Member was very well as a first step.
 MR. AYRTON  complained that the Bill contained most extraordinary clauses; and if it was discussed before going into Committee, and they went into Committee immediately afterwards, the object of the discussion would be lost.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he wished to point out that great doubts existed as to the authority of Her Majesty in Council to hear appeals on matters of  Habeas Corpus
 MR. A. MILLS  said, that the Commission was created by Parliament, not by the Church; and as long as it continued to exist, Parliament must pay for it.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  asked, if anything had been finally decided on with regard to the National Gallery; and if any plan had been adopted, would it be laid before the House for its sanction?
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  observed, that in the Civil Service Estimates were many charges which ought properly to appear in the Military Estimates. Chelsea Hospital, the Royal Military Asylum, and the Tower of London were instances; as also the items for coals and furniture for offices connected with the military branches.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he should move the omission from the Vote of the item £4,611 for furniture and fittings for the South Kensington Museum, the Museum of Geology, and the College of Chemistry, as he had a very strong suspicion that money had already been voted for these purposes in the Votes for the Science and Art Department.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he felt much disappointed that no general explanatory statement had been made by the Secretary of the Treasury in bringing forward the Civil Service Estimates. Such a statement was due both to the House and the country, and was all the more necessary as the Committee was now asked, for the first time, to consider a particular part of those Estimates without having the entire series before it. They were not even furnished with a general abstract of the whole of the accounts to guide them. Besides, many of the Votes in Class No. 1, which they were discussing, were connected with Votes in other classes, and particularly
 304
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH : Will that apply strictly to the next year?
 MR. LAYARD  said, that in order to explain the answer he had to give to his hon. Friend, he would remind the House of the exact position of the Sutorina. When the Republic of Ragusa was an independent State, she was surrounded by Venetian dominions; and not finding the Venetians very pleasant neighbours, and in order to cut off her territory from theirs, she gave to Turkey two strips of land, one to the north and the other to the south, running down from the Turkish province of the Herzegovina to the sea. In that way she completely isolated herself from the Venetians. When Austria came into possession of Dalmatia and Ragusa, the two strips of land remained in the possession of Turkey; and if some arrangement had not been come to between Turkey and Austria, all access by land to Ragusa, now forming part of the Austrian territory, would have been cut off, had the Turks chosen to prevent a passage through their territories. Accordingly, an engagement was entered into by Turkey with Austria—Turkey refusing to cede these two strips of land to Austria—that a road between Ragusa and the Austrian territory should be always kept open, and should not be interfered with in any manner whatever Recently there had broken out in the Herzegovina an insurrection, which was still going on. One of the chiefs of the insurrection, Luka Vucalovitch, descended into the Sutorina, and erected a battery upon the strip of land. It was evident the battery was not intended for any defensive purpose against the Turks, The Turkish troops had not been there, and there was no ground for believing that they intended to attack the insurgents in that place; consequently the battery was raised for some purpose foreign to the insurrection. The Austrians, naturally anxious that the communications between the territory of Ragusa and the district of Cattaro should not be interfered with, gave notice to Luka Vuoalovitch, the leader of the insurgents, that if the batteries were not removed within a certain time specified, the Imperial troops would take the matter in hand. They were not removed, and accordingly the Austrians, with the cognizance of the Turkish Government, entered the strip of land and destroyed the battery without resistance, no impediment being offered to
 302
 MR. BUXTON  said, he wished to know whether, as writs of  Habeas Corpus
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he was afraid he could not say when the money in question would be distributed. The Royal Warrant authorizing the distribution had been passed in September, 1861, and sent out to India. In order to prevent delay as far as possible in the matter, notice had been issued by the Prize Committee at Calcutta to the effect that no application for any portion of the money could be received after the 31st of December last. It was not until that date, therefore, that the number of applicants was known. It required, he might add, some time to compare the prize rolls; but when that was done, the distribution would take place at once.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he rose to move the second reading of this Bill, which had already passed the House of Lords. It arose out of the case of the fugitive slave Anderson, and its object was to obviate the possibility of future disputes with the Colonists by preventing writs of  Habeas Corpus
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  wished to explain that it was only by warrant from the Executive that a prisoner could be given up to the American authorities. The Canadian Court, therefore, though it had power to liberate Anderson, would have had none to deliver him up to the American Government. That could only have been done by the Governor General of Canada.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  observed, that there was scarcely any place of public resort so much frequented as Greenwich Park, and contended that it would be conferring no boon upon any nobleman to tell him he might live in the Ranger's house on the condition that he should repair it.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, he wanted to call attention to an item of £1,000 for the expense of a fire-engine station for the protection of the public
 311
 LORD FERMOY  said, he hoped that as gutta percha had failed as an insulating medium, the Government would guard against its use by the new Company. They ought to insist on the employment of india-rubber, as recommended by the Royal Commission.
 MR. MACEVOY  said, he was glad that such an improvement had been made in the law relating to works of art; and he thought that some such summary protection should be extended to literary property as was afforded to works of art by the Bill.
 COLONEL FRENCH : But are these real balances, such as can be made available for the service of the coming year?
 MR. BENTINCK  said, it appeared to him, with all due deference to the House, that there had been a good deal of exaggeration in the opinions which had been expressed on that question. He did not think, with the hon. Member for Galway (Mr. Gregory), that the action which had taken place on the other side of the Atlantic was likely to be a source of economy; nor did he agree with the right hon. Gentleman who had spoken, that his noble and gallant Friend (Lord C. Paget) would be called upon to bring in a supplemental Estimate. He believed that the question lay in a nutshell. The House always voted liberally, and in his opinion wisely—the money required for the defence of the country, and the question was simply this—What was the best way of laying it out? He was bound to say that he had heard with great regret the statements made by the Secretary at War and by the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty. He gathered from those answers that it was the intention of the Government to continue as before the operation of building the forts; and the noble Lord asked them
 287 288
 MR. BENTINCK  hoped that there would be a full opportunity of discussing this Bill before it went into Committee.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he should support the Amendment of the hon. Member for Lambeth, as he objected to finding offices for the Ecclesiastical Commissioners. He thought it desirable that the Commission should be abrogated; it would be an advantage to the Church if that were done.
 MR. HUNT  said, he wished to call attention to three items—£700 for the Stationery Office in Prince's Street, Westminster; £110 for the "late Stationery Office," Great Newport Street; and £205 for "late ditto" in Gate Street, Lincoln's Inn Fields. He wished to know whether the public was paying for those three offices?
 MR. HUNT  said, he wished to know how it was that £7,515 could be spent in keeping up so small a park as that of Battersea?
 MR. HUNT  said, he would support the Motion of the hon. Member for Finsbury on the same grounds as he had voted for the former Amendment.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he wished to ask, whether the plan of extending the buildings of the Admiralty, by taking a portion of the houses in New Street, Spring Gardens, was to be carried into effect, or whether it might be considered that the notices served on the owners of these houses had been withdrawn?
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he had to complain that the Government had separated from the War Office the fortification branch of that office, and had taken for it rooms which cost the country £1,312 a year. He thought that system led to very great extravagance, and he wished to know whether the offices would be retained permanently or not, or whether there would be a concentration of all the offices under the War Department?
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he wished to know why the expense for Greenwich Park was three times greater that year than in the last?
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he wished to point out that a Vote of £4,600 had been taken last year for fixtures and fittings in the Science and Art Department.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he wished to ask whether the change which had just been announced would be effected by a Bill or by a simple order of the Treasury.
 MR. FREELAND  said, he wished to say a few words on a subject very closely connected with the question before the House. He would not allude to the proposed second mission of Lord Hobart further than to say that it was a mission which he thought that the House would approve of, and which, under the circumstances, her Majesty's Government could hardly refuse when called on to embark in. He should be very much surprised if, in the answer which they would receive, the House were told that that mission would involve all the serious consequences which his hon. Friend opposite appeared to anticipate from it. It would be found, he thought, to have a much narrower and simpler object. The matter to which he wished particularly to refer was the former mission of Lord Hobart and Mr Foster, and be wished, respectfully but earnestly, to press on the consideration of the Government the great importance of applying at the earliest possible day to the Turkish Government, through M. Mueurus, for their consent to lay upon the table of that House a copy of the report of Lord Hobart and Mr. Foster on the finances of Turkey. They had lately had placed before them some rather sanguine statements as regarded the state of Turkish finance; but having given great attention to the whole subject, he must say that he thought those statements were too highly coloured. Coincident with the announcement of the new loan, they had had transmitted to them from Constantinople an able document in the shape of a budget from Fuad Pasha, anticipating a surplus of £844,463. In connection with that budget, he wished to notice one item—namely, the increase on customs duties under the new treaties of commerce of £914,200, a sum larger than the whole of the anticipated surplus. Among the new treaties was the treaty recently concluded between Turkey and this country. By that instrument the export duties were reduced from 12 to 8 per cent, and they were to diminish 1 per cent every year, until they reached 1 per cent, at which point they were to remain stationary. The import duties were raised from 5 to 8 per cent. It was possible that the revenue arising from the diminished export duties might eventually reach its present amount, but time must be allowed for that, while it
 295
 MR. STANSFELD  said, he wished to put a question to the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs with reference to the interests and independence of the Turkish Empire. It related to an act of armed intervention on the part of Austria which took place in the Sutorina on the 1st of last December. The Sutorina was a tongue of land which ran down from the Herzegovina to the Adriatic, and divided the Austrian territory of Ragusa from the Turkish dominions. He would describe the act of which he complained in the language of the official report as it appeared in the  Wiener Zeitung The Times "Not long since the civil and military governor in Dalmatia made known to the Imperial Government that the insurgents in the Herzegovina had, in two different parts of the Sutorina, constructed batteries which commanded the Imperial Royal
 300 enclave status quo The Times "By a telegram of the 2nd inst. from Castel-nuovo, a fortified town at no great distance from the present entrance to the war port of Cattaro, we learn that a body of Austrian troops under General Von Rodich entered the Sutorina yesterday, and' without having fired a single shot,' demolished the two batteries which were between Svinje and Lucich." 301
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, the Government had succeeded in having some gardens in Dublin opened on Sundays, but they gave no assistance towards the preservation of those gardens. It was acting upon principle against conviction. Their principle was that the gardens should be open on Sundays, and their conviction that they should not give money to preserve the gardens. Any one who had seen the PhŒnix Park must agree in the propriety of the appeal of the hon. Member for the city of Dublin. They wanted to have new trees, but none were planted. They wanted to have new roads, but none were made. It was a fine park sadly neglected, and the Irish people threw themselves on the mercy of the Committee.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he would put the case of an Englishman, who, having been accused of committing a crime in the United States, had escaped to Canada; and he would ask what would be done in case he was demanded under the extradition treaty? Was he to be deprived of his right of appeal? He hoped that sufficient time would be given to consider the matter, though he had no objection to the second reading.
 MR. BLAKE  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether he will lay on the table of the House the Papers relating to the Negotiations between Her Majesty's Government and the Government of the Queen of Spain, respecting the alleged persecution of Protestants?
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, I think the speech of the right hon. Gentleman will not be deemed very satisfactory by the House. He was modest enough to say that he did not hold himself to be an authority on a question of this kind, but I must say the facts he quoted did not appear to be much to the point. The report of the Defence Commission was written more than a year ago, and cannot, therefore, refer to an event which happened about a fortnight since. The right hon. Gentleman has, therefore, said really nothing to the proposition of the hon. Member for Chatham. I agree with the right hon. Gentleman in his comments on the remarks of the hon. Member for Galway. On the occurrence of a single event such as the recent action, however important—and the man must be particularly stupid who does not see its importance—it would, I think, be very unfortunate if the Government at once adopted the scheme of naval reconstruction which is very much favoured by the right hon. Member for Droitwich. Nothing could be more costly or calamitous to the country than that we should have such sweeping measures carried out by aspiring Lords of the Admiralty every half-dozen years. The question which has been raised is very simple, and the Government
 279 Monitor 280
 MR. SPEAKER : The House having
 294
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the participation of Her Majesty's Government in the proposals for an Ottoman Loan. The subject was first brought to his notice by the receipt of a circular from a highly respectable firm of stockbrokers. The letter was as follows:—
 "We beg to call your attention to the prospectus of the New Turkish Loan, which will appear in to-morrow's newspapers. You will observe, as a special feature, that it is under the direct cognizance and favour of the British Government. The low price of the new issue, when compared with the present market value of the previous loans, the great advantages offered by the sinking fund for the redemption of the loan at par, and the securities which have been taken for the fulfilment of all its conditions, leave no doubt of the complete success of the operation. Being duly authorized to make up a list of subscribers, we shall be glad to know, as early as convenient, if we may have the pleasure of including your name in it. The amount of deposit to be lodged with each application is 5 per cent." 290 Foreign Office, March 15. "Sir,—When I had the pleasure of receiving you and Mr. G. G. Glyn at the Foreign Office a week ago, I informed you, that if the Sultan's commissioners or agents in this country should be successful in obtaining a loan, Her Majesty's Government, anxious for the well-being and prosperity of Turkey, would be ready to send one or two gentlemen in whom they had confidence to assist the Sultan's Ministers in the due application of the proceeds of the loan to the extinction of the paper money and the funding of the floating debt. I stated that Her Majesty's Government would take an interest in this operation from their feelings of friendship towards Turkey. I said the contractors of the loan might see in such a mission a further security against the misapplication of the present loan, and the loss of credit which would ensue. I am happy to inform you that Lord Hobart has consented to proceed to Constantinople for six months for the purpose I have indicated. "I am, Sir, "Your most obedient humble servant, "RUSSELL." "H. A. Bruce, Esq., M.P." 291 292 293
 MR. HUBBARD , who had on the notice paper a Motion that Colonel Dunne and Sir J. Hay should be added to the Committee, said, that after his hon. Friend's statement he should not press his Motion.
 MR. LAIRD  said, that he wished before the question was answered to make a few observations on the subject. He looked upon the action to which reference had been made as the turning point in the adoption of iron for all classes of vessels in Her Majesty's service. Objections had hitherto been made to small iron vessels of this kind, but the success of the  Monitor Monitor Merrimac 269
 MR. LOCKE  said, that before the hon. Member for Lambeth answered the appeal which had been made to him he must say that if that hon. Member had sanctioned any expenditure, even upon the metropolis, he must have seen good reasons for doing so; for without such reasons he was sure he could not bring his mind to approve of any expenditure at all. Good reasons had been given why Battersea Park had not answered the expectations or the hon.
 318
 MR. LOCKE  said, he would also suggest that a better supply of water should be provided for the fountains. Those fountains had been a laughing-stock to foreigners, and during the time of the Exhibition it would be much better that they should not be allowed to play, unless they were to be more sportive than they had hitherto been. It was admitted on all hands that they were the most outrageous failures ever attempted in this country.
 MR. LOCKE  contended, that it was the inalienable right of the subject, whether in the colonies or the mother country, to appeal to the highest authority in the realm, which in that case was the Queen in Council. It had been decided that an appeal lay from the Courts of Jersey and Guernsey to the Courts at Westminster. He doubted, however, the expediency of passing a general law, applicable to all colonies, merely on account of a single case in a particular colony.
 MR. LOCKE  objected to proceeding with the Committee immediately after the discussion.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he hoped the Committee would not support the Amendment under the impression that Kennington Park was a mere grass field. The greater part of it was a garden, consisting of gravel walks, flower-beds, shrubs, and plants, which required to be renewed.
 MR. ROGERS  said, he wished to ask whether the cartoons in Hampton Court Palace were insured against fire?
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he thought that details ought to be given, as was the case with other departments. One department had so far condescended to particulars as to give in a claim for eighteen-pence.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he would move that the Bill be read that day six months. He thought that the Bill would be wholly ineffective to afford a protection to artists. The measure appeared to have been prepared in a hurry, and was apparently intended only for the purposes of the Great Exhibition. Hasty legislation was always found by experience to be unsuccessful. Supposing that an artist did not register his picture, he saw nothing to prevent a surreptitious copy of the work being taken, without the slightest remedy to the artist. It would be better to reconsider the subject, wait a little longer, and get a better Bill.
 MR. DILLWYN  remarked, that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cowper) had made no objection to giving the details except their prolixity. Now, he for one should like to have them, and he should look through them with some curiosity to ascertain how so much money could be spent on these parks.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. STANILAND  said, that the whole Vote was presented without proper details, so that the Committee felt a difficulty in cutting down any single item. For Greenwich Park there were two sums of between£4,000 and £5,000, and he held it to be perfectly monstrous to spend such a sum upon the preservation of two hundred acres of land. He thought that the Government would do well to withdraw the Vote for the present, and propose it again in a more detailed form. To mark his objection to the Vote in its present form he would move, that the amount be reduced by £5,000.
 MR. O'BRIEN  remarked, that the tolls upon Chelsea Bridge had been imposed in pursuance of a distinct understanding with the inhabitants of the district.
 MR. O'BRIEN  said, they did not object to the expenditure on the parks in and about London, but public grants of that kind ought to be fairly administered. With regard to Battersea Park, he admitted that a great improvement had been effected, but they were led to believe that through the increased value of building sites that expenditure would be a source of revenue to the country. The expectation, however, had not been fulfilled. He wished to know whether the annual charge of £8,000, for the maintenance and embellishment of the park, was intended to be permanent?
 MR. BLACKBURN  observed, that some cheek ought to be put upon the amount expended on the parks about London. During the past nine or ton years the expense had greatly increased, and it now amounted to about £100,000 a year. It was impossible to reduce the item by moving to strike off any specific sum; but if the opinion of the Committee were expressed, the expense in future Estimates would probably be diminished.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he thought that the sum asked for was extravagant, and instead of being reduced by £5,000 it ought to be reduced by £50,000.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Sir, I was in hopes, after the numerous and distinguished instances of conversion to a conviction of the non-necessity of these forts which we have heard to-night, that we should have heard also of that of Her Majesty's Government. I have been very much disappointed at the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for War because, if we are to collect anything from that speech, it must be that Her Majesty's Government are about to rush into this enormous expenditure in spite of the great lesson they have received from the events which had occurred in Hampton Roads. I think that my hon. Friend the Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright) has been unnecessarily hard upon the right hon. baronet the Member for Droitwich, (Sir John Pakington) because there can be no doubt that the right hon. Gentleman was the first to draw the attention of the country to the defective state of our navy, and he ought not to be taunted with what was in fact a great merit on his part. It has been said that the Admiralty are opposed to all change, but I would remind hon. Members that it was the Admiralty of that day that proposed these very floating batteries. It was my late lamented Friend Admiral Sir Richard Dundas, then First Sea Lord, who brought forward this very scheme, and proposed to convert twenty useless line-of-battle ships into floating batteries to defend Portsmouth and other harbours. He proposed to do that—and would have done it—at a cost not exceeding £840,000, instead of erecting enormous forts which will cost considerably more than a million and a half. That proposal was negatived by the Engineers, who thought there was nothing like stone and mortar for building; and therefore I do not think that the Admiralty are open to the insinuation that they set themselves against this improvement. From the speech made by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for War, we seem to be going
 282 Merrimac Virginia "We opened fire on her. We might as well have fired at a moving iceberg. The shot glanced off her iron sheathing like hailstones off a tin roof …Nearly all the guns were dismounted, the bulkheads blown to pieces, rammers and handspikes shivered, the powder boys all killed."
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : I am very glad to hear it. What does Captain Coles offer? He says that he will for a small sum of money convert line-of-battle ships which are lying idle into shield ships, which may form a coast patrol to defend your harbours. I am glad that this discussion has taken place, but I think that it will be totally useless if we—not only the converts, but the thirty-nine articles, of whom I happen to be one, who originally voted against this outlay—if the House does not insist upon Her Majesty's Government not spending another shilling upon these forts until we are in a position to know that they will be able to hold their own against the monsters of the deep which are now being constructed.
 MR. MALINS  said, he thought the Vote was not too large, considering the advantages which the public derived from it.
 MR. R. W. DUFF  said, the proposition was to substitute vessels for forts, so as to have a fleet in every port. It was not his province to defend the Admiralty, but his hoped they would proceed with the construction of the forts. Forts were better than ships, and particularly at Portsmonth, as there was not a sufficient depth of water for vessels carrying very heavy guns to manoeuvre about Spithead. This country was foremost in inventions, but the Admiralty seemed always the last to take advantage of those inventions. He attributed it to there being no competent Board to decide what inventions should be adopted and what should not. The Admiralty had allowed themselves to be out-stripped by the French, who had constructed  La Gloire Warrior Monitor
 MR. LOWE  said, that so far from having refused to bear any of the expense, there was a Vote in the Estimates, under the Science and Art department, towards maintaining the garden to which the hon. Gentleman referred.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he could not view the construction of parks merely as a metropolitan ratepayers' question. If the responsibility were thrown solely upon them, he very much feared that, owing to the value of land in the vicinity of London, the ratepayers would prefer to build upon it. Within the last sixty years London had doubled its population. Looking upon the parks not merely as places of recreation for the poor, but as contributing very largely to the permanent health of the metropolis, he hoped the Committee would sanction the Vote.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, as far as he could hear, there was no objection to the day which the noble Viscount had fixed; but it had been mentioned on Friday night that it would be very desirable that the Government amendments on the Revised Code should be laid on the table as early as might be convenient, in order that the House and the country might have time to consider their details. He would, therefore, ask that the noble Viscount should say that he would be prepared within a reasonable time to lay the amendments on the table.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he would put the further question whether the law officers of the Crown had been consulted, and had given an opinion to the effect just stated by the right hon. Gentleman?
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he thought the observations of the hon. Member deserved consideration. There ought to be a power of appeal where an injustice was done to a British subject by the Colonial Court. The Bill seemed to him to involve Imperial as well as Colonial questions, and that the rights of the Crown ought to be reserved to meet the former.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that he had not the least objection to the fullest discussion; and if the Bill were read a second time now, he would fix the Committee for after Easter.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  moved the second reading of this Bill.
 MR. HORSFALL  also hoped that a full discussion of the provisions of the Bill would take place, as his constituents had that day communicated to him some objections to certain clauses.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, that the public suffered great inconvenience in consequence of Kew Gardens being shut off for the great part of the year from Kew Green and Richmond; and he would suggest, with the view of removing that inconvenience, that some slight alteration should be made in the gardens at Unicorn Gate.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  hoped the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. Williams), who had left his seat, would not leave the House, because he believed that Battersea Park was a hare which he started some years ago to divert attention from his nibbling at cheeseparings. He was anxious that the Chief Commissioner or the hon. Member should explain to the House what revenue that park had produced, or else should withdraw the promises which had been made with regard to it. If no account of profit could be shown, he hoped that the hon. Member for Lambeth would vote for the reduction of the Vote.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he observed that the amount of the entire Vote was £103,942  8s
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he would move to omit the word "nine" and
 330
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he would suggest the name of Colonel Dunne.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the Committee not being one of finance or expenditure, he could not see why there should be a desire to choose any Member of it with reference to the part of the United Kingdom of which he was a representative. Nine was the number fixed on last year, and he thought a larger Committee would not work well; but if there were anything like a general wish to have an Irish Member on the Committee, he would consult the hon. Gentlemen who were on it last year, to see whether that object could be accomplished.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  moved,
 "That there shall be a Standing Committee, to be designated 'The Committee of Public Accounts,' for the Examination of the Accounts showing the appropriation of the sums granted by Parliament to meet the Public Expenditure, to consist of nine Members, who shall be nominated at the commencement of every Session, and  of
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, they had no option, in honour, but either to concede such terms as the old company chose to demand or to leave matters precisely as they stood, with the property wholly useless, and yet an annuity of £32,000 payable to them for fifty years.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the law officers of the Crown, about eighteen months ago, declared that, under the terms of the contract, the Government were not legally bound; and that being so, the Government felt that as an executive they would not be authorized in paying to the Company their annuity. They then had to look to the original intention of the contract, and they found on examination that there was no doubt the intention was that the payment should be unconditional—that was to say, it was not to be conditional on the continued success of the undertaking. They, therefore, last year brought a Bill before the House, that it might exercise a judgment on the matter. The House passed the Bill, empowering the Government to treat the contract as unconditional, and thereby the annuity became an absolute obligation.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had only meant that it was not the business of the Government to fish up the cable from the Red Sea.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that papers would be presented that night by his right hon. Friend the Secretary to the Treasury, containing the correspondence between the Government and the two telegraph companies, which would give the House a fuller and clearer view of the transaction which it would be asked to authorize than could be readily conveyed in a brief statement from himself. The matter was rather intricate. The company which originally undertook to establish this telegraph, having failed in its design, proposed upon certain terms to give place to a new company, so that the Government had arrangements to make with both companies. The terms made with the old company were, perhaps, more liberal than on simple principles of equity it would have been entitled to; but the question was whether it would not be more far the public interest to deal with the company, even on such terms, than to leave them in possession, because there were no means of ousting them without their free assent. The terms made with the new company were fair and equitable, and though they appeared to offer it the possibility of obtaining an interest of, even 25 per cent on its capital, still it must be remembered that the property came into its possession in a worthless condition, and that it was invited to give value to that property with its own funds, without bringing the public under any new liability as far as it was concerned. The project wag in a very unfortunate position, and the Committee would, he thought, agree that the Government had acted wisely under the circumstances in giving encouragement for the accomplishment of a very useful public object. The line of telegraphic communication towards India had been lengthened by what had already taken place, and hopes were entertained of still greater and more beneficial results from this arrangement. The Resolution he had to propose, preliminary to bringing in a Bill to give effect to the arrangement, would convert the annuity now payable to a joint-stock company into a regular annuity charged upon the Consolidated Fund. The right hon. Gentleman concluded by moving a formal Resolution on which to found a Bill accordingly.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the Government had thought it better not to interfere in the practical details of the question; so that the Company would be left perfectly at liberty to attach itself either to the gutta-percha or to the india-rubber interest.
 MR. BARROW  said, he wished to know whether there was any prospect of the abolition of the Tithe and Inclosure Commission? He could see no necessity for its continuance.
 MR. C0NINGHAM  said, he wished to remind the right hon. Gentleman the First Commissioner of Works, that if he wanted space for the cartoons, he had only to turn the Royal Academy out of the National Gallery, and then he would find plenty of room. He was sorry to hear that picture-cleaning was recommencing in the public galleries. It was proved a few years ago that the pictures at the National Gallery had sustained great injury from the process of cleaning, and if the pictures at Hampton Court were exposed to similar treatment, they would be irreparably damaged. He had often thought that the health of the people would be improved if all allopathic doctors were abolished, and was similarly convinced that art would be greatly advantaged by the abolition of picture-cleaners.
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, he must condemn the whole system on which the Kensington Museum was conducted. The Government were diverting that institution from its legitimate object. It should be confined to the fine arts and archaeology.
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, he could not but express his regret that the Government had decided against the reconsideration of the system of fortification. He had ventured on a former occasion to express an opinion that the system of constructing iron men-of-war was still in its infancy, and he believed that vessels would some day be built which would be able to send a shot through the  Warrior 289 Warrior Warrior Warrior Warrior
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, he thought the remark, of the right hon. Gentleman showed how desirable it was that the Government should altogether cease to manufacture for the public. The Government was spending millions in wholesale
 327
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, he had understood the right hon. Gentleman to say that it was inexpedient for the Government to charge itself with the decision of the relative merits of gutta-percha and india-rubber.
 MR. COX  said, he would then propose, instead, that the whole Vote should be reduced by £583.
 MR. COX  said, he would then move that the charge for Kennington Park should be reduced by £583, leaving a round sum of £1,000.
 MR. COX  said, he observed that £1,583 were to be paid for keeping in order what used to be called Kennington Common, but what was now styled Kennington Park. To call the place a Park was absurd, as it consisted of only seven or eight walks and a few grass plots, from which even children were excluded.
 MR. W. EWART  complained, that the public were unnecessarily restricted in the use of portions of Hyde Park by the present arrangements. They ought either to have the whole range of the park, or the animals of the deputy-rangers ought not to range beyond certain limits. He suggested that when a vacancy occurred in the office, the ground occupied by the premises of the deputy-ranger should be thrown open to the public.
 MR. W. EWART  said, that it was his opinion that many of the works of art at present in Hampton Court Palace ought to be removed nearer London, where they would be more accessible to the artists of the country. He also thought that copies of them might be taken and distributed through the chief towns of the country. As they were circumstanced at present they were in considerable danger of being destroyed by fire.
 MR. GREGORY  said, the event that had lately occurred in America appeared to him an entire revolution in the art of naval warfare. It was neither more nor less than that, and the newspapers of the Northern States had been congratulating themselves that, in consequence of what had occurred, the naval superiority of England was at an end. But he took
 270 The Times Merrimac Monitor Merrimac Monitor The Times "The impregnable and aggressive character of this structure will admonish the leaders of the Southern rebellion that the batteries on the banks of their rivers will no longer present barriers to the entrance of the Union forces. The iron-clad intruder will thus prove a true ' Monitor Monitor Monitor 271 Monitor. Monitor Merrimac Monitor Monitor 272 Warrior Merrimac Warrior Monitor Warrior
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he could not but complain of the confusion which was occasioned in the public accounts by the want of distinctness in the arrangement of the items. He also wished to call attention to the number of Votes in Book No. 1 of the Estimates, in which large sums remained over from former years. The whole of the twenty-three Votes in that book amounted to £695,000, while the items lying over from the votes of former years amounted to £769,000. He contended that all balances unappropriated on the 31st March should be paid into the Exchequer, and so accounted for, and a fresh vote taken for the same purpose when one was necessary.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he was at a loss to understand why hon. Members should seek to fasten personal responsibility upon him with regard to Battersea Park, towards the construction of which several Votes had been taken before he became a Member of the House. It was true he complained very often of what he thought the unnecessarily large outlay on the parks; and seeing that £70,000 of the amount voted last year still remained unexpended, it could not be denied that the Estimates were male very much at random; but of the condition and circumstances of Battersea Park, beyond the fact that it was of great advantage to that part of the town, he knew as little as he did of the county of Cork. It was some eight or ten years since he rode that way.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  observed, that some explanation was required in respect of the item of £1,094 for the Queen's Prison. He believed that all the persons who had occupied that prison had been sent about their business. What then was going to be done with the building? There was also an item of £900, rent of a house in St. James's Square for the Tithe and Copyhold Commissioners. The; work of that Commission had been reduced; to nothing, and yet there were three Commissioners. There was another item to; which, in his opinion, there was so much objection that he should move its rejection. He begged to move the reduction of the vote by £680, the rent of a house for the Ecclesiastical Commission.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, that if the hon. Gentleman—a Scotchman—had a just ground for complaint against the Vote when it included £1,780 for Holyrood Park, Irish Members must have a much stronger case, seeing that not one penny piece was allowed for the ornamentation of
 315
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  Said, that the balance arose from the change of system, consequent upon carrying into effect the recommendation that had so long been made in regard to surpluses. The sums referred to were not proofs of extravagance, but were sums which had been voted before for services which had not yet been paid for.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he believed that was the last time the Committee would be culled upon to Vote any sum on account of the Queen's Prison, Since the passing of the new Bankruptcy Act a great reduction had taken place in the number of prisoners confined for debt, and arrangements were being made for the purpose of removing all the remaining prisohers in the Queen's Prison to Whitecross Street Prison. When those arrangements were completed, a Bill would be submitted to Parliament authorizing a sale of the Queen's Prison.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that further duties besides those of acting as Inclosure Commissioners were thrown upon the original Tithe Commission. They were employed in all cases in which public money was advanced, or when public Companies received Loans from Government under Acts of Parliament. A Bill would be submitted to Parliament in the course of the present Session for the renewal of the Commission, and then opportunity would be afforded for discussing its duties and the utility of continuing it.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he wished to ask, where the public records would be removed to when the State Paper Office would be pulled down? At present a large portion of the public records were stowed away in houses in Chancery Lane, which were in a very dilapidated condition, and by no means such as any gentleman would choose for his private papers.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he was anxious for some information with regard to what was called "the new State Paper Office." As he understood, what was really a new building, and had coat between £40,000 and £50,000, was going to be pulled down. He therefore wished to know what was to be the sum total of the change; what was to become of the records while a new building was being provided, and what would the entire cost be? What would the public get out of it for £120,000?
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he had expected an explanation from the Treasury bench, but the right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken had, no doubt, given the real explanation. They were not payments in the course of the year, and how could there be an economy?
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  remarked, that if that were true, the Estimate seemed to have been an extravagant one.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he saw that the probable surplus of former grants under the Vote was estimated at £10,000. He wished to ask, whether that was the total of the surpluses of several years?
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, that as one of those who had originally resisted the grants to Battersea Park, he wished to remind the Committee that a large portion of the money had been advanced on what turned out to be false pretences. A distinct pledge was given, that if the bridge were built, a toll should be levied for the repayment of that money. No sooner was the bridge built than persons interested in the district raised an agitation against the toll.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he
 326
 MR. CAIRD  said, that if the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Cox) thought proper to divide the Committee for the purpose of reducing the item of Kennington Park by a few hundreds, he should have his support. That park consisted of only a few walks through less than twenty acres of grass.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he rose pursuant to notice to move the following Resolution:—
 "That in the opinion of this House it was not desirable that the annual training of the Militia should be of less duration than the  minimum 255 256 minimum 257 s d
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  observed, that he should be quite satisfied if the same option were allowed to commanding officers of regiments with respect to the different periods of training and drill, as was given them last year.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, that when the Defence Commission first gave in their Report, he was of opinion that the forts at Spithead, to which alone he should confine his observations, were absolutely necessary, but he had now changed his views, and he was confident that it should be better for the public good if the money were spent in the construction of vessels of the new description for the defence of the port, because these vessels could be made as strong as forts, and a movable fort must be much more valuable than a stationary fortification. Under these circumstances, he agreed in that particular with the gallant Member for Chatham; but there were some special circumstances to which he had alluded which required some slight explanation. He did not quite agree with the hon. and gallant (Gentleman in all the inferences which he had drawn from the late action and from the experiments which had been made in reference to the construction of iron fortifications and ships; nor could he
 273 274
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, that the preparation of gutta-percha had been as yet very unsuccessful, and that the only perfect insulation was that procured by the use of india-rubber. As Her Majesty's Government had appointed a Commission to consider the subject, he trusted that the Government would not deem the matter unworthy of their attention.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, the question which was raised very ably and clearly, and with a very kindly spirit, by my hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Chatham is a question of extreme import-
 283
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that it was entirely owing to the toll on the bridge that the land at Battersea Park was not let for building. He wished for some information as to the Italian garden at the
 316
 SIR JOSEPH PAXTON  said, he should vote for the item in the Estimates, but he was sure that as soon as Battersea Park had attained its maturity the sum would no longer be wanted. The money spent of late years on the park had been most judiciously expended, and the only way of bringing it back to the Exchequer was by taking the toll off the bridge.
 SIR ROBERT CLIFTON  said, he could not but express his regret that the hon. Member for Buckingham (Mr. Hub-bard) should have brought forward his Motion at the present time. Great reforms had recently been carried out in Turkey, and the waste which formerly prevailed in Turkish finance had almost entirely disappeared. The present Sultan had devoted a large sum out of his privy purse to the payment of arrears due to the Turkish army, and it was to be remembered, that if the foreign debt of Turkey had been greatly increased of late years, that increase was mainly due to the recent war with Russia. It was much more difficult for the Sultan to introduce reforms among his people than it was in this country. Every year panics were made by large houses to force the market for bourse transactions. He trusted that both France and England would always be ready to maintain the independence and integrity of Turkey, which, as long as she retained possession of the Dardanelles, might be regarded as the key of Europe.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he wished to call attention to the large amount of rent paid by the Government for public offices. The sum had increased from £25,000 last year to £26,900 in that year. If the Committee would look through the list of public offices, they would find the Government rented buildings all over the West-end, which entailed a great deal of inconvenience upon those having business to transact with them. That sum of money represented the interest of £900,000, and he would ask the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cowper) whether he could not devise some better mode of expending the public money?
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he would ask, whether the right hon. Gentleman really thought he was doing wisely in paying a rental of £27,000 a year, instead of concentrating these offices? It might, indeed, be better to continue to pay that rental, rather than erect new buildings in the style of the Foreign Office; but he believed that a building, modest in its elevation, but sufficiently commodious to accommodate the whole of these offices, might be constructed at a cost, in the shape of annual interest on outlay, of not more than half the sum now paid as rental.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he wished to repeat that it was his opinion that the Government should undertake to house all these Commissions in a general public building.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he wished to ask whether, as they expected to have a good many foreigners in London during the year, it would not be possible to give the fountains in Trafalgar Square a better appearance than they then presented in spouting forth hot water, which emitted clouds of vapour, and prevented no beauty of the fountains from being seen.
 MR. CAVE  said, that the principle of the Bill had already been approved of. He hoped the Bill would now be read a second time: a full opportunity might be allowed for discussion on the Motion for going into
 328
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that if the Committee, after spending a great many hours in discussing sums of every possible magnitude, should at twelve o'clock at night determine at last to cut off some £500 which was to be devoted to the enjoyment, health, and recreation of the people, they would be taking a course not worthy of them.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I propose that this question be taken on Monday, the 5th of May, a week after the day on which the House will meet after the Easter recess.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I feel sure that there was never any pledge as to repaying the money spent on the park, though expectations were held out that part of the land might be let advantageously for building purposes. There was a pledge that the cost of the bridge should be repaid by tolls; and when it was moved in this House that the tolls should be remitted, on the ground that they prevented the advantageous employment of the land available for building, the House determined that the tolls should be continued. The amount expended on the bridge is, therefore, I imagine, in course of repayment. But those tolls necessarily diminish very greatly the use of the park by all the persons living on the northern side, and have also the effect of preventing, in a great degree, the advantageous employment of those portions of land intended to be applied to building purposes.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I can hardly accept for my noble Friend at the head of the Foreign Office the compliment paid to him by the hon. Member for Buckingham, that he has shown great intrepidity by the part he has taken in the present transaction. My noble Friend acted, I think, simply upon the commonest dictates of prudence and statesmanship in a matter which deeply concerned the interests of a friendly Power, and a Power, moreover, the maintenance of which is a point of very great and deep importance to England. The way in which the transaction took place may be briefly stated. The Turkish Government represented that it was essential an attempt should be made to arrange their finances. It is well known that, at their request, we sent two very able men—Lord Hobart and Mr. Foster—to make
 296 297 298 299
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I am afraid I cannot give the Papers which the hon. Gentleman asks for, and for the best of all reasons, that I do not think any such Papers really exist. There has been no official correspondence or negotiation between the English and Spanish Governments on the subject. The British Minister has from time to time had unofficial conversations with the Spanish Ministers with reference to the matter; but I am sure my hon. Friend and the House will understand that reports of these unofficial conversations are not matters proper to be
 254 favourable opportunity
 MR. PHILIPPS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, When he intends to introduce the Lunacy Regulation Bill, and whether such Bill will contain any provision for the purpose of facilitating the building of a Lunatic Asylum by counties united for that purpose?
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether, adverting to the probability that guns of much greater calibre must now be placed on our Seaboard Forts and Iron-plated Ships, Sir William Armstrong is to have the exclusive manufacture of such guns, or is their construction to be thrown
 332
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the War Office had no contract with Sir William Armstrong, but that it had one with the Elswick Iron Company, which was printed in the index to the Report of the Committee on Military Organization. If that contract were referred to, it would be seen, that if the War Department ceased altogether to employ the Elswick Company for the manufacture of ordnance, they would be bound to compensate for the loss of profit on its plant to the extent of, £85,000. In reply to the second question of the hon. Gentleman, he would, as the subject was one of some interest—of temporary interest, at all events—read to the House a statement as to the largest guns which were at present in use, or in course of trial—
 "110-pounder Service Gun.—The 110-pounder Armstrong gun is the largest as yet actually introduced into the service. Large numbers have been supplied to Her Majesty's ships and the batteries at home and abroad. Experimental Guns.—A 140-pounder gun, rifled on Sir William Armstrong's shunt principle, and loaded at the muzzle, fires a solid shot of 140 lb. weight, with a charge of 20 lb. of powder. The experiments with this gun hare been highly satisfactory. 200-pounder.—A gun on Sir William Armstrong's principle is now in course of manufacture, and expected to be ready in about a month. 300-pounder.—A 300-pounder rifled gun is now undergoing a course of preliminary experiments as a smooth-bore gun, and has been fired with a spherical shot of 156 lb. weight, and a charge of 40 lb. of powder. And a proposal has this day been brought forward by the Director General of Ordnance for the manufacture of a gun capable of firing, as a smooth-bore gun, a shot of 300 lb. weight, or, as a rifled gun, a shot of 600 lb. In addition to these guns one 120 lb. gun of Mr. Whitworth's, and a 200 lb. gun of Mr. Lynall Thomas, are in course of construction."
 MR. PEEL  said, the account would be presented as soon as possible. It had been delayed in order that it might be rendered more complete.
 LORD STANLEY : Sir, having been Chairman of the Committee that sat a year ago on this subject, I hope the House will indulge me for a few minutes, as I wish to make some observations in reference to it. The Report of that Committee was agreed to after full and careful consideration of the evidence adduced; and I do not think that either the objections made last year to the system of competition, or those that have been stated in the course of the present debate have been of a very formidable nature. It seemed to me, while listening to the speech of my hon. Friend, that I was hearing over again the discussion that took place last Session on the same question. In the first place, he made a complaint that I have often heard in former years, that by the system of competitive examination we get a test of intellectual qualifications only, and that moral and physical qualifications are left unregarded. Now, I think my hon. Friend, in his anxiety to throw ridicule on the Civil Service Commissioners, went out of the way to answer his own argument, because he read a list of the physical qualifications required in the candidates, with a list of the questions put to them on that point, showing that great care
 355 356 357 358 esprit de corps esprit de corps
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : There is scarcely any law or institution in this country as to which differences of opinion do not prevail, and which is not disapproved by a minority to a greater or lesser extent; but when a subject like this has once been established by the consent of Parliament, and when a regulation has been in force for a certain number of years and has been the subject of repeated debates and inquiries, there is in general a truce to further discussion, and the minority are content, for a time at least, to acquiesce in the continuance of the regulation without reviving discussions on the subject. I much regret that the subject of Civil Service examinations has not been allowed to have the benefit of this system of forbearance, but that in every successive Session there have been Motions renewed in regard to it. There is one set of gentlemen who propose unlimited competition for admission into the Civil Service, and another set who object even to a test examination. The system which is now in force was introduced about seven years ago. It merely provided a test examination for introduction into the Civil Service; but it did not introduce any mode of competition. Since that time, by the practice of the Government, in consequence of discussions which have taken place in this House, competition to a limited extent and for a considerable number of offices has been introduced; but that competition has not been made unlimited. What the hon. Gentleman proposes is that we should agree to an abstract general Resolution, declaring that it is expedient that all offices in the public service should be filled by competitive examination open to all Her Majesty's subjects. He places no limit on the generality of that proposal, and he says nothing as to postponing the introduction of it; but, as I understand him, if we were to agree to that Resolution, it would be the duty of the Government at once to introduce the system which he describes. He did not allege in his speech that the present system had been found to fail, nor that it did not give sufficient security to the public with regard to first appointments in the Civil Service. Nor did he allege that it was not an improvement on the system which it had superseded, nor has he been able to show that there has been any recent investigation in which the plan which he recommends has been laid down. It is important that the House should bear in mind the recommendations of the Com-
 360 "They think that an important step in advance will have been taken if for the system now generally prevailing, of simple nomination, there be substituted one of limited, but of real competition; and they recommend accordingly that from henceforth every vacancy occurring among clerks in the Civil Service be competed for by not less than three candidates, to be nominated as at present, each of whom, in the first instance, shall have passed the preliminary test examination, except in the case of a single vacancy, which shall not be competed for by less than five." "It appears expedient that whenever the convenience of the public service allows, several vacancies should be competed for at once. It is obvious that a competition between 30 candidates for 10 vacancies is more likely to result in the appointment of young men of talent and industry than if each place were competed for by three candidates separately." "Your Committee, while declaring their opinion that the best mode of procuring competent persons to fill the junior clerkships in the Civil Service would be through a system of competitive examination open to all 'subjects of the Queen' who fulfil certain definite conditions as to age, health, and character, are not prepared to advise the immediate adoption of a plan for giving effect to those views." 361
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : I am quite: aware that the hon. Gentleman made a verbal concession to the principle, but I contend that his arguments are inconsistent with his concession. His arguments go against the propriety of testing the qualifications of candidates by examination. Not only upon this but upon previous occasions, it has been sought to cover with ridicule the system of examination in the only manner in which that system can be exercised. I have the honour of the acquaintance of the two gentlemen who have filled the very difficult and very thankless office of Civil Service Examiners. I believe that two more honourable or more capable public officers the service of the Crown does not contain. I regret that one of them is about to retire from his office; and I feel satisfied, from my acquaintance with them, that it is impossible
 362 Cambridge University Calendar
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : I was referring to those cadets; and if the hon. Gentleman will look at page 101, he will see the subjects upon which they were examined, and the number of marks which they obtained. There are only a few cadetships in the course of the year, and they are very different offices from those of policemen. The assertion of the hon. Gentleman is utterly unsupported by any evidence which he did produce or can produce, and I should have thought it was a matter of notoriety that neither the Metropolitan nor the County Police are subject to any literary or scientific examination whatever. Another hon. Gentleman quoted some other examples of very difficult examinations as illustrative of the questions proposed to junior clerks entering the Civil Service, and, in order to enforce his argument, he quoted some questions from some paper submitted to candidates for the Indian Civil Service.
 SIR GEOEGE LEWIS : If that is the argument of the hon. Gentleman, it is an entire perversion of the meaning of the hon. Member for King's County. The hon. Member for King's County did not mean to say that junior clerks of the Civil Service were to be examined with questions as difficult as candidates for the Civil Service in India, among whom there may he sometimes senior wranglers and persons of a high degree of education. What he meant to say was, that the competition was to be open to the whole world, which is a totally different question. The questions in the Indian examinations may be difficult for the purpose to which they are applied. That is a subject upon which we are not now called upon to enter, and the argument and illustration, therefore, of the hon. Member for Maldon (Mr. Peacocke) are totally inapplicable to the purpose for which they were used. After having subjected this question to its annual examination, I trust the House will come to the conclusion that the course which the Government has taken is, as the Committee has described it, the most advanced step of which the present state of things will admit. They have established, with regard to those clerks whose duties are
 364
 LORD STANLEY  explained, that he had merely said that no candidate was expected to answer every question on the paper.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : Sir, perhaps I can best answer the question of the right hon. Gentleman, having had some recent experience of the nature he has referred to in my own department. The difficulty is greater than he has stated, inasmuch as it is felt not only with regard to competitive examinations, but all the ordinary test examinations of the Commissioners. It arises in this way. The Superannuation Act declares that no clerk shall be entitled to superannuation allowance unless he has received the certificate of the Civil Service Commissioners; and therefore, without that certificate, he would not be entitled
 372
 MR. CLIFFORD  said, that he was anxious to refute a libel quoted by the hon. Member for Windsor (Mr. Vansittart), to the effect that the candidates for competitive examination who came from the Universities of Oxford, Cambridge, and Dublin had neither the manners of gentlemen nor the physical capacity enabling them to ride or perform other duties entailed by the public service. He believed such a charge to be entirely unfounded. The qualities attributed by the hon. Member for Honiton (Mr. Cochrane) to a good public officer—namely, good principles, good habits, good judgment, general intelligence, and energy—reminded him of the
 373 The Times 374 Astronomy of the Ancients 375 dramatis personæ
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH , in reply to the remark made by the hon. Member for Honiton, to the effect that the officers of the army had deteriorated since the system of public competition had been introduced, contended that the statement was erroneous, observing that the whole of the scientific corps were introduced into the service through the medium of competition. He felt quite sure, he might add, that his right hon. Friend the Secretary for India would not say that the system as introduced by the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn into the scientific corps in India had not answered its purpose. For his own part, he could bear testimony to the fact, that having been public examiner at the time, the candidates who presented themselves were far superior to those put forward by nomination. Indeed, so far as conduct and science went, it was undeniable that those officers who had been introduced by means of open competition were most meritorious. Now, it had been stated by the hon. Member for Norfolk (Mr. Bentinck) that the heads of departments gave no information to the examiners as to the nature of the duties to be performed by candidates, if admitted. The fact was, however, that the most explicit information was given on that head, while it was also a mistake to suppose that a large amount of patronage was thrown into the hands of the Commissioners. They based their decision on the report of the examiners, whose examination papers, in their turn, the Commissioners duly investigated.
 MR. THOMSON HANKBY  said, he thought the Chancellor of the Exchequer would find out by the division the fallacy of his assumption that because no hon. Member rose immediately after the hon. Member for Dudley (Mr. Sheridan), that therefore no one intended to support the proposition of the hon. Gentleman. There were a great many Members who agreed with the views of the hon. Gentleman, and they would, no doubt, support his Motion. At the same time he confessed that he was not prepared to say that under any circumstances he should vote for the second reading of the Bill, or that because he voted with the hon. Member to-night he should feel bound to do so. He concurred with many statesmen in the opinion, that if that was not the worst possible tax, it was a very objectionable tax, and that at the earliest moment it ought to be reduced. He did not admit the argument of the Chancellor of the Exchequer that it was unjust in the same way as every other duty. Undoubtedly all taxes were objectionable, and it would be very desirable to live without any taxation. But that tax was not levied upon equitable principles. Mr. Newmarch, who was some authority upon the subject, estimated the value of the insurable property within six miles of London at £900,000,000. The representatives of £300,000,000 only insured; and they, being prudent people, paid the whole tax, while the representatives of the £600,000,000 went scot-free. If the tax were levied on the owners of the whole £900,000,000 of property, Is. per cent would yield the same amount of revenue, and all would bear their due proportion. For these reasons he should go into the lobby with the hon. Member.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE , in moving that a Select Committee be appointed to consider whether it is practicable to provide a Compendious Record of Parliamentary Proceedings for the use of Members, said, that there were at present, practically, two records of those proceedings—the Votes, which were circulated from day to day, and the Journals, forming that ancient constitutional Code, if he might so term it, which, was made up at the end of the Session from the Votes, and which furnished the legal Record of the Proceedings of the House of Commons. With respect to the Votes, he might observe that it was not until comparatively recent times they were regularly received by the Members of the House; it was to Speaker Abbott, he believed, that hon. Members were indebted for the punctuality in their delivery, which caused them to be laid now, and for some years past, as regularly on their breakfast tables as  The Times 405 406 The Parliamentary Record for "Qualification for Offices Bill.—Ordered to be brought in by Mr. Hadfield, Sir M. Peto, Mr.
 407 Hansard; Hansard
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, a sum had been taken in the Estimates for Holy-head Harbour—and the Vote would, he hoped, come on for discussion on Thursday next—with the view of making the present packet pier convenient for passengers, and also improving the railroad communication with the pier. The Treasury and the Admiralty were in communication with the London and North Western Company and the Dublin Steam Packet Company on the subject of the hon. Gentleman's question, and some satisfactory arrangement with respect to it would, he; trusted, be arrived at.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he understood it to be convenient to the House that he should withdraw his Amendment, and that a division should be taken on the Motion of the hon. Member for the King's County (Mr. Hennessy). That being so, he was prepared to withdraw his Motion, but of course the House would un-
 380
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE : I beg the right hon. Gentleman's pardon. Let him look at page 40, and he will see "cadets in constabulary."
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE : I commenced by stating distinctly that I was in favour of a test examination.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  observed, that the arguments of the hon. Member who had brought forward this Motion were as unfortunate as his selection of a seconder, for a stronger speech against the whole system of competitive examination than that just made by the hon. Member for Windsor (Mr. Vansittart) he had never heard. It had not been his intention to bring the subject again before the House, as it was by no means an agreeable duty to address the House year after year upon the same topic. He was strengthened in that resolution by the fact that the Committee which sat last year upon the subject had stated that it would be better to give the present system time to work, to: gain further experience of its results. Nevertheless, as the question had been brought forward by the hon. Member for the King's County he thought it his duty; to express his opinions upon it. When the hon. and learned Gentleman thought proper to quote extracts from the Report of the Committee, he should have been glad if he had read the whole of the Report of the Committee. By a singular omission, the hon. and learned Gentleman did not, think it necessary to quote the last sentence of the Report, which was as follows:—"The Committee are not prepared to advise the immediate adoption of a plan for giving effect to these views." He could scarcely comprehend how the hon. and learned Gentleman could found his Motion on the Report of the Committee. The hon. and learned Gentleman, it would seem, intended much more than the Committee had ever thought of, inasmuch as
 342 343 "Is it within your experience that the sons of meritorious officers in the Treasury or the other departments have been occasionally appointed to vacancies?—Yes. "Have those sons turned out, as far as your experience goes, to be a class inferior or superior to the others?—I think that, generally speaking, they have proved a very good class of officers. 344 "Do you see any evil resulting from the fact of recognising the services of meritorious officers by appointing their sons, or giving their sons an opportunity of competing?—No, on the contrary, I think it is one of the most graceful tributes to faithful service that can be rendered to a deserving officer. "The effect of open competition would be to exclude all such power of rewarding?—Yes. "You think that would be an objection?—I think it would; I think that not only have the sons of old officers generally proved a good class of persons, but they preserve an element in the office of traditional knowledge which, to a limited extent, it is desirable to maintain; they carry on some of their fathers' knowledge and information." "I do not mean without examination; but do you see any injury or benefit to be derived from the fact of a meritorious officer having his son placed upon the list of temporary clerks, after he has proved by examination that he is competent?—Certainly not. I think that it is quite right that there should be such an appointment; and as he obtains it by passing the ordeal of examination, I see no objection to it. "Would not such an appointment to a temporary clerkship be considered rather as a reward to a meritorious servant?—It can hardly be called a reward where, of course, the reward is not certain, because he must pass an examination." "I have often sent to the Secretary of the Treasury an application from a meritorious clerk in the office for an appointment for his son. "Has that request been ordinarily complied with by the Treasury?—I think I have had two or three instances that occur to my mind in which the Secretary to the Treasury has nominated the son of a clerk in my office, at my suggestion. "That suggestion being that he was the son of an able and a meritorious officer?—That he was the son of an old clerk in the office, who, I thought, deserved well of the Government. "You thought that not an unfair or improper mode of rewarding the father for his services?—It occurred to me as a very proper mode of showing him how his own services had been appreciated. "Do you think that it is a graceful recognition of the father's services?—Yes; I think it is a graceful recognition of the father's services, his son having subsequently to pass the proper examination, that he should have the nomination. "Have you found any instances of those who have been so appointed being inferior to those who have been otherwise nominated?—No, certainly not. "Do you see any objection that exists to the occasional nomination of the sons of meritorious officers?—No; on the contrary, I think that it tends very much to the advantage of the public service, because it shows the father that he may have a chance of getting that nomination if his own services are meritorious." "Have you been in the habit, or has it ever occurred to you to recommend for the junior posi-
 345 "Do you think that that has had a beneficial effect upon the service generally?—Yes, I think it has. "Is it considered a graceful reward for the long and meritorious services of the father that his son should have an opportunity, providing that he is competent, of being placed in such a position as a clerk of the Customs?—I think that it does much good." "I think also it is very desirable that the Postmaster General should be able to appoint the sons of officers in the department. "Is the appointment of the sons or members of the families of officers of the department, practised to any great extent?—Not to any great extent as regards the clerks, but to a considerable extent to the letter-carriers. In the last year seventy letter-carriers were appointed who were the sons of other letter-carriers. "Out of what total number?—About 300." "You stated, I think, that in the Post Office department the claims of meritorious and deserving old officers are considered?—They are. "And that consideration is given by occasionally presenting the sons of such officers for examination to the Civil Service Commissioners?—It is so. "Have you found, as a general rule, that that is calculated to give content, and to be received with gratitude by those officers whose sons are so selected?—I believe very much so. "Do you think that the entire absence of those appointments would be injurious to the service?—I think it would, because such an appointment acts in two ways: it does good to the men whose sons are appointed, and the sons generally are very useful and good officers. "Of course, if there was to be an open competition, the merits of the father, however great, would never be taken into consideration; it would depend merely upon the intellectual ability of the son?—Just so. "Therefore that element, if it is an element for good, would be entirely excluded from the appointments in the Civil Service?—It would." "Should you regret to have it done away with? I should indeed. The Board laid down restrictions that a man must have attained a certain rank, and have a certain number in family; he must, it least, have been a division officer. The object of that was, that he should have shown some interest in desiring to get forward in the service. 346 "It was in the nature of a reward to the meritorious servants?—Exactly. "It has given general satisfaction, and you would be very sorry, would you not, to see it repealed?—Very sorry." "It has been given in evidence that it is usual both in the Inland Revenue and in the Customs for recommendations to be made by the chief of the department in favour of the sons of old and meritorious officer?, and that those recommendations have been uniformly observed, and that those nominees have been so appointed; I understand you to say that you see no objection to such a course in a limited degree, provided that those persons were examined by a limited competition? Certainly; I think that great good would arise from the mixture of the sons of old and confidential officers with persons taken from the public at large. "You think it would be a recognition of their services, and make the officers themselves more zealous and more satisfied with their positions, or tend to make them so?—Yes; I think it would make them more contented with the limited career before them. "I think you stated that the principle does prevail in some other great establishments, such as the Bank of England?—Yes; I can speak confidently that it does." "Will you state to the Committee whether you think that the evil of rewarding meritorious officers by appointing their sons is so great that, without any exception, such persons should never be introduced into the service under any circumstances?—I do not think that you can carry on both systems together, the competitive system and the nominative system, even though the latter should be checked by a pass examination. There would be very invidious comparisons made between the clerks who came in under one system and those who came in under the other. If your object is to obtain the best clerks, I should not,  à priori 347 "You have given your opinion as to the advisability of reserving a certain number of appointments as rewards for the sons of meritorious public servants; does it appear to you that if a considerable number of clerks in any office had gained their situations on competitive examination, and if the remaining part of them had come in as being sons of old officers, that would give rise to jealousy and ill-feeling in the office?—I have already stated, in answer to a question put to me by another hon. Member, that I think it Would be most objectionable, and that it would lead to great difficulties in the government and management of the office." modus opwandi 348 349 attachés 350 "The truth is, and it is one we are in danger of permanently forgetting, that the higher kinds of culture have often an enervating effect. There are minds, and those amongst the most valuable, which much learning tends only to enfeeble. The polish is only obtained by planing away the Wood. There is a rough strength, a determined energy, which seems to be the attribute only of the half-educated. Men of great culture are apt to give their imaginations too much play, to desire harmonious impossibilities, to foresee the difficulties so clearly that action is foregone. They have put microscopes to their eyes, and cannot drink for fear of the animalcules. Mr. Gladstone, for example, we do not hesitate to affirm, would be the most capable administrator in Europe if he could only forget one-half of his cultivation. As it is, he worries England and delights his foes by theories too harmonious to be of the slightest use, and an insight too keen to suffer him to take one long step in advance. How often has the rough intellect of the Premier enabled him to cut straight to the core of a matter of which his colleague could only nibble at the rind? It is only natural that it should be so, for the work of the world is done by qualities over which culture has no power. Courage is not developed by mathematics. Creative power is not increased by literary training. In sight is an instinct, not a product of education. That strange faculty of dominance which Begins to stand apart from the other powers of the mind, which enables races as stupid as the Turk to subjugate races as subtle as the Greek, is not increased by polished cultivation. Every day we see the scholar distanced in the race of life by the adventurer who can barely spell—the polished scion of a cultivated race defeated hopelessly by an orator innocent of Greek. Force, the true motive power of events, rests in the character, not the intellect, and it is only the latter that high cultivation can improve." Cries of The Spectator
 MR. STEUART  observed; that the Motion of the hon. Gentleman the Member for King's County as explained by the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for War, was a very different thing from the same Motion as explained by the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn. The House would remember that for some ten or fifteen clerkships in the India House there had been a very large number of competitors. That showed that a competitive examination was not only beneficial to the successful candidates, but also to the many whom it stimulated to study the subjects required. He trusted that the Amendment would be withdrawn; and he might have been inclined to vote with the right hon. Gentleman who intimated his wish to move the Previous Question, were it not that he observed that the arguments proceeding from the Treasury bench were the same stereotyped arguments which had been used on former occasions. The present limited system of competition was a delusion, and he hoped that the House, by supporting the original Motion, would to some extent encourage the system of open competition, which would prove a great stimulus to education among the working and lower middle classes. In reference to some observations which had fallen from the hon. Member for West Norfolk (Mr. Bentinck) he begged to say that in communicating with the Commissioners he experienced the greatest courtesy, and found them willing to enter into a discussion relative to the nature of the examination papers, and
 377
 MR. LEFROY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, When the accomodation and protection promised to be provided for the Mail Packets and for passengers landing on the wooden jetty at Holyhead will be provided, in compliance with the agreement made between the Admiralty and the London and North Western and Chester and Holyhead Steam-boat Company?
 MR. DISRAELI : Has the noble Lord at the head of the Government fixed upon the day when the Easter vacation is to commence, and will the noble Lord state for what time it is to last?
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he had been anxious to say a few words on this subject, because it happened that during the recess he had heard a great deal with reference to it. He believed that the common sense of this country (no very slight element of strength) was rapidly approaching the conclusions expressed in the Amendment of the hon. Member for Honiton. There were two or three matters which had almost become axiomatic. One was that useful education and instruction preparatory for these competitive examinations were two very different things. Another axiom was that the examiners were rapidly acquiring the title of the Secret Service Examiners. The House was perfectly aware, when public thought became expressed in this terse manner, it had been matured. Another feeling was, that the Government of this country was finding this system a means of evading responsibility while really exercising patronage. That was important, for, however obnoxious the system of public patronage for political purposes might
 379
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the House had never adopted such a course as that proposed. They were indebted to Mr. Hansard for a valuable enterprise; but during the whole time of its existence the House had never assisted that gentleman with a single shilling. He thought the day would come when they must have reports of their own, and he could not conceive that anything better could be done than to place a Parliamentary corps under the superintendence of Mr. Hansard. The  Parliamentary Remembrancer 410
 SIR CHAELES WOOD  said, he would then move the Previous Question.
 MR. PUGH  said, he should have great pleasure in, supporting the Resolution pure and simple, and he had more confidence in doing so, because he felt that they were treading on no untried or unexplored ground; for the question was not now between patronage on the one hand and competition on the other, but between open competition and limited competition: and having read with attention the Report on this subject, and the evidence appended to it, he was not surprised to find that the present system of limited competition had very few friends indeed. It had been stated by high authority that it was useless to the Government. To Members of Parliament it was inconvenient and irksome; for nominations to compete were in the great majority of cases nominations to failure and disappointment. That such patronage was exceedingly distasteful to them he was as thoroughly convinced as he could be of any truth of which, he had no personal experience. It was now too late in the day to say that open competition would not work well. It had been successful in the scientific branches of the army, and in the Indian Civil Service. In the course of the discussion on the opening of that service to public competition, Lord Ellenborough, himself an advocate for the principle, is reported to have said, "I feel the vanity of examination when applied to the discovery of abilities for administering an empire." But the Legislature did so apply it, with what success they had heard. If they did not shrink from the experiment in that service whose appointments were beyond their immediate control, why should they hesitate here where in case of any temporary failure the statesmen were at home and ready to apply the remedy. In the preceding Session, and in this, they had heard with pleasure a voice from the Horse Guards in favour of the system; and last, not least, they had the authority of the House of Commons; which, on the 24th of April, 1856, passed a Resolution in favour of open competition. He did not agree that the recent controversy on education afforded an argument against the Resolution. The object of the controversy was to obtain a  maximum minimum maximum 381
 LORD FERMOY  expressed his opinion, that the principle of the measure was a sound one. The noble Lord at the head of the Government was taking too good care of the landed proprietors of Ireland, who might very well be intrusted with the management of their own affairs. The hon and learned Member for Cork (Mr. Scully) was in reality the originator of this measure, and deserved the credit of the Bill. The Bill was calculated to make property more valuable.
 MR. BENTINCK : But the argument of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for War (Sir George Lewis) was, that there must be these difficult questions for the purpose of excluding a great number of candidates; and therefore the right hon. Gentleman defended the examination upon totally different grounds to those occupied by the noble Lord. The right hon. Gentleman (Sir George Lewis) had complained that attempts had been made to cover the subject with ridicule. But such attempts were quite unnecessary, for he would defy any hon. Gentleman to add to the amount of absurdity already involved in it. It was an absurdity to allow the Civil Service Commissioners to frame all the examinations of all the public departments for which they had to examine candidates. Was it possible they could be better judges than the heads of the various departments as to the requirements of the candidates for employment in the departments themselves? But a still greater absurdity was the fact, that by the operation of the present system a great many of the best men that could be obtained were excluded from a great many of the departments. It had been well and wisely said in a past debate that, "If that system had prevailed a few years ago, the Duke of Wellington would not have been a soldier, and Watt would not have been an engineer." That was summing up in the most conclusive manner the real objections to the system. By it a great many young men might be obtained, but what was wanted were young men of personal energy and activity. He did not mean to argue against those persons called bookworms, but there were many men who would prove of real service and value to the Crown, but who were unable to pass through these examinations. But the greatest objection to the whole system was, that it was at variance with what had always been the policy of the Government of this country. The Civil Service Commissioners enjoyed great irresponsibility, and monopolized all the patronage of the country. He had, himself, brought before the House last year a case, as to which all he asked was, that the House should be allowed to know on what grounds the Commissioners had rejected a particular
 368
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he was somewhat surprised that the noble Lord (Lord Stanley) had objected that the arguments against the present system advanced this year were the same as those advanced last year. That was a singular objection. It might be convenient for hon. Members who sat on the front bench to change their opinions every twelvemonth, but the repetition of the arguments in this case only showed that they were confirmed by the experience of another year. Then the noble Lord had said he did not think any of those arguments were of a formidable character, but he had failed to deal with any one of them. The noble Lord had compared the competitive system to a judicial tribunal, forgetting that no judicial tribunal claimed total immunity from responsibility, or carried on its proceedings with closed doors, as did the Civil Service Commissioners. Then the noble Lord had said it was not the practice to ask all the questions on the examination paper. If
 367
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he begged to second the Motion.
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, his hon. Friend had admitted that there was no  esprit de corps 354 minimum minimum Gazette
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, he had much pleasure in seconding the Amendment, for, in his opinion, there were other qualifications necessary for a public servant besides those of being able to answer some not very intelligible examination papers. The humblest clerks in some of the public departments were necessarily intrusted with secrets of state, the divulgence of which at times might be a national calamity. Was the country, then, he would ask, ready and willing to throw open posts of such importance to the first comer, simply because he had made the best Greek iambics, or proved himself the greatest master of the binomial theorem? A large preponderance of the evidence given before the competitive examination Committee was against the system. The Report of the Committee was one way, but the weight of evidence the other—only one witness thoroughly in its favour. One of the most striking characteristics of the youth of England was, that unlike the youths of other countries, it was taught not to look forward to eat the bread of comparative dependence in a public office, but to maintain itself in after life by its own energy and its own exertions; but by throwing open to competition twenty thousand places under the Crown this spirit would be destroyed, and discontent would be introduced into the public offices. A youth who had passed a competitive examination, and who had attained the object of his aspirations, would find the moment of entering on his official duties the moment of his disappointment. Youths from ' the Universities of Glasgow and London' and Dublin would be cast on the streets of London, without friends, without relatives; and would those youths, flushed with their recent victory, sit down to the drudgery and monotony of a public office; or would they think that their profound knowledge of Greek or mathematics was adequately rewarded by the modest competence of £90 a year? Sir Thomas Fremantle, Mr. Tilley, and Mr. Arbuthnot, when examined before the Committee, stated that such a spirit of discontent had already manifested itself in the public departments. Much good had been done by subjecting the examination papers to Parliamentary criticism, for any hon. Gentleman who had compared the earlier papers with those of more recent date, could not have failed to remark that the latter were more intelligible, and better adapted to the intellects of ordinary men
 352 "'Languages, so long as they are living and not dead, are always in a state of change and progression. Changes of position to other races by conquest or emigration, mutual relations, such as trade or alliance—all changes, in fact, in the position of a nation itself, will produce corresponding alterations in a greater or less degree in its speech; but besides all these accidental causes there inheres in all languages an instinct of progression and simplification which in the course of centuries will inevitably produce mighty changes.' Apply this statement to the English language by tracing rapidly its origin and development out of the various elements which enter into its composition." "The nightingale's  thrilling "The soldiers are at  drill "The carpenter's  drill "The negroes are clothed in  drill "The horse's  nostril "The lassie  thirled "Have the words marked in  italics "What is the title of Chaucer's principal poem, and why was it so called? Which of his poems have been paraphrased by two celebrated poets of a later age? By whom has he been called 'a
 353 "What are the titles of the poems written l>y the author known as Piers Plowman, and what are their peculiarities?" "Who was the author of the 'Polyolbion,' and what is the nature of the work?" esprit de eorps
 MR. PEACOCKE : What I said was, that the hon. Member for King's County proposed to subject all clerks to the same system as the civil servants in India were subjected to, and therefore I quoted from examination papers for the Indian Civil Service.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN : I said for the last two years.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN : I said the duty in 1859 was £1,300,000, and in 1861, £1,500,000, or thereabouts.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, he might be out of order in referring to that conversation. He had been urged by an hon. Member whom he believed to be connected with the Government to postpone his Motion until after the Budget, and he inferred that if he did so he should stand a better chance of success, but he found he took very little by his Motion. He did not wish the House to imagine that he was asking for the repeal of the whole tax. The sum by which the revenue would suffer was, indeed, so very small that the sale of a few old stores at Woolwich, or the refusal to alter some ship, would make up the amount, and the £250,000 would cease to be a deficiency in a few hours. What was this tax? If it were a property tax, why not levy it on all insurable property? Was it a tax on prudence? Was it right for a man to insure his property? If the Government replied in the affirmative, he asked "Why, then, do you punish him for the exercise of a virtue of which you approve?" One man insured his property and his next door neighbour did not. The Government fined the former, why, then, should they not also fine the latter? He might be told that there were other taxes equally oppressive, but he called upon those hon. Members who held that opinion to show him a single tax so false in its incidence, and so unjust and unequal in its operation. Suppose a rich man having £5,000 worth of property and insuring to the extent of £3,000. For that insurance he paid £4 10s. to the
 386 s s s s s ad valorem 387
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  begged to move for leave to introduce a Bill to reduce the duty on Fire Insurance. He intended to confine himself to a simple statement involving the leading arguments on the question, and rely on them for the support of his Motion. The proposal he now had to make differed materially from those which he had had the honour of submitting on former occasions. He now proposed to reduce the duty from 3s. to 2s., and at the expiration of five years to reduce the duty another shilling, so that ultimately 2s. would be taken off the 3s. duty now chargeable on Fire Insurance. The duty at present collected was in round numbers £1,500,000. His proposition would affect only premiums below 6s. per cent. He calculated that insurances above 6s. per cent amounted to one-third of the sum at present received—namely £500,000. He had to deal then with the remaining £1,000,000, on which the reduction of 1s. from the 3s. duty would be one-third of a million, or £330,000. Supposing that proposition adopted, the Chancellor of the Exchequer would have in his hands the whole of the present revenue except
 382 383 The Times Progress of the Nation 384 385
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, that it was Mr. Brand who asked him to postpone his Motion.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, he would not at that hour detain the House by a reply, although he possessed ample means of confuting both Mr. Coode's facts and the right hon. Gentleman's arguments.
 MR. FARRER : Sir, in rising to call the attention of the House to what I conceive to be a breach of privilege, and to a question in which my own personal honour is concerned, I feel assured I shall not in vain ask hon. Members to allow me to trespass for a short time upon their attention while I state the position in which I find myself placed. It will be in the recollection of the House that a few evenings ago a Motion was brought forward by an independent Member of this House, the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck), with the view to obtain a Select Committee to inquire into certain allegations contained in a petition which he had been requested to present, and to the charges contained in which I thought it my duty to reply in opposition to the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman. It is, I think, scarcely necessary for me to recapitulate the statements which I made on that occasion. They were twofold, and were based upon printed documents which had been placed in my hand on the morning of the day on which the Motion was made, and which I had every reason to believe were accurate. It was, therefore, with some surprise that two days afterwards I read in the morning papers a letter from the petitioner, Mr. Benjamin Coleman, in which he stated that I had been deceived, and that the statements I had made were incorrect. If the matter had been allowed to remain there, I should not have thought it necessary to take any further steps in it. There was nothing particularly uncourteous in the letter of Mr. Coleman. It contained a mere assertion that I had been deceived,
 335 Stockton Gazette and Middlesborough Times "It is true that pending the proceedings in Chancery the House of Commons has declined to enter upon the consideration of this gigantic fraud." "And that Mr. Farrer has endeavoured to repay to Mr. Jackson some of his political obligations by promulgating a statement which we are in a position to designate as a deliberate lie, and by which he endeavoured to make it appear that Mr. Coleman was to be bought for £6,000, and his evidence thus suppressed." 336
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that while he admitted that there ought to be a discriminating judgment exercised in respect of the nature of the examination to which a particular class of candidates were to be subjected, he could not understand the argument sometimes used, that a young man
 376
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he rose to move for leave to introduce a Bill to au-
 400
 MR. WHITESIDE : He will have the power of sale peremptorily in the Landed Estates Court.
 MR. WHITESIDE : There will be no difficulty at all.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that in reply to the observations of the noble Lord, he wished to observe that according to the doctrines of political economy you could not teach a man prudence by legislation. In reference to the question under discussion, they must consider the people whom it was proposed to legislate for as men who wanted money. By the Bill it would be in the power of the court to issue debentures on a portion of the estate and the remainder would be perfectly free; whereas now the whole land became mortgaged and the owner embarrassed by the appointment of a receiver. By the Bill the money could be easily obtained, while the estate would be improved and expense saved.
 MR. BLAKE  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether he intends, during the present session, to take steps to carry out the recommendation of the Select Committee of last Session on Irish Poor Laws, with reference to granting Superannuation to Workhouse Officers?
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he rose to move the Resolution of which he had given notice on the subject of the examinations for the Civil Service. The history of these examinations might be summed up in a few sentences. In 1852, when the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli) was leader of that House, a Royal Commission was appointed to inquire into the organization of the Civil Service. That Commission reported
 337 338 verbatim "That, with a view of establishing such a system of open competition, it is desirable that the experiment first tried at the India House in 1859 be repeated from time to time in the other Departments of the Civil Service,"
 MR. NORRIS  said, he would suggest that the question of the introduction of the Bill should be deferred till Thursday. There were in that House a number of Gentlemen who thought the hop duty a grievous burden; there were others in favour of the repeal of the duties on tea and sugar; and others again who sympathized with those who paid income-tax upon small and precarious incomes; and all these would vote against the hon. Member for Dudley if he pressed his Motion to a division that night. He submitted, therefore, that the Bill would have a better prospect of success if postponed till after the House was in possession of the financial propositions of the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 MR. ROGERS  said, that the returns given in the most recent statistical abstract for the United Kingdom, showed that the Chancellor of the Exchequer's argument with regard to the insurance of agricultural produce was fallacious. The value of agricultural produce had been nearly stationary since the repeal of the fire insurance duty upon it. During the same time, however, judging by the exports of the country, all other insurable property had enormously increased, and therefore it was not a fair argument of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to say, that as the agricultural produce insured, after it was freed from the duty, only increased 67 per cent, while during the same time the property that was taxed increased 65½ per
 397
 MR. MARSH  said, that on looking to the result of the civil service examination at Woolwich, he found that scarcely any boy who had been at an English university or public school had received an appointment. It was very desirable that young men educated at those universities and schools should have an opportunity of entering the public service; and he suggested that at the examination they should have given to them, at starting, a certain number of marks.
 MR. MALINS  said, he was bound to say he could see no practical difficulty whatever in carrying out the measure. If there were an Encumbered Estates Court in England, the measure could be applied to this country with advantage. The debentures were to be issued under the authority of the court, and only to half the value of the land. Under such a system the lender would not want to sell the land; but if he wanted his money, he could sell his debenture for the full amount. The Bill propounded a new and important principle for the landed interest, as it enabled landowners to borrow at the lowest interest, and at small expense.
 MR. MALINS  said, the Motion of the hon. Member for Dudley (Mr. H. B. Sheridan) was only for leave to bring in a Bill, and nothing, he thought would be likely to occur between that evening and Thursday that could in the slightest degree prejudice the position of the right hon. Gentleman. He was so fully alive to the necessity of maintaining the public credit, that if the right hon. Gentleman could show on Thursday night that at present we could not afford to part with any of our revenue, he was sure that all who supported the repeal of the tax on fire, insurances would at once be ready to drop all further progress with the Bill for that year at least. The tax itself was so inexpedient, so enormous in amount, and so utterly opposed to all principles of true finance, that he was surprised to hear the right hon. Gentleman hold out so little hope of its extinction. Proceeding on a principle, however, which the right hon. Gentleman had always been the first to uphold, he felt bound to support the Motion. If there was a principle which the right hon. Gentleman had inculcated more often than another, it was this—that reduction of taxation always led to increased consumption. When the House heard the arguments of the right hon. Gentleman, let them remember that he was the same Chancellor of the Exchequer who came down last year, and urged upon them the abolition of the paper duties. Did the right hon. Gentleman mean now to negative the principle he then laid down? The right hon. Gentleman then assured the House that carriages, draining pipes, and he (Mr. Malins) knew not what besides, would be made out of paper, merely because the duty was to be taken off. By what argument, then, could he justify a principle upon which the insurer paid 3 s 395
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES : Sir, perhaps I have some right to say a few words upon this question, because I have on former occasions taken a strong part in opposition to my noble Friend. I fully agree with my noble Friend, and with the right hon. Baronet who has just sat down, that a great question such as this is not to be decided upon the absurdity or excellence of any examination papers, and I think that it ought not to depend upon the character of the examiners themselves. It is a question which stretches far beyond such points as those, and I trust that the House will never come to a resolution that these offices shall be submitted to general competition, without having given it their most serious attention. I say this because the grounds upon which on this occasion I oppose, and on other occasions I have opposed measures of this kind, do not rest upon any notion that men can be over-educated for any purpose whatever, but upon the conviction that if you were to make the competition open, you would do the people of this country a great moral and political injury. If the minds of the young men of the country generally were diverted to the object of becoming Government stipendiaries, it would go far to destroy the independent spirit of the nation and that limited action of the Government which all wish to see still more limited than at present. This is a political incidence of our times, but it is one which any man who wishes to be assumed to belong to the party of progress should not for a moment neglect. If the youth of this country were bred up, like the youth of Germany, to look forward to a Government office as the highest aim of their lives, it would very much injure our national independence and damage our national spirit.
 365 366
 MR. WALPOLE  seconded the Motion.
 MR. WALPOLE  admitted, that if they were to have a Select Committee, it was most proper that the two points to which his right hon. Friend had directed his observations should be carefully considered. The grounds upon which he was anxious that the matter should be inquired into might be briefly stated. He thought it was expedient that they should have a compendium of their Proceedings independently of those larger collections which were contained in the Journals. Those who were accustomed to consult the Journals would agree with him that there could not be a more unwelcome task than that of taking down folio volume after folio volume in order to discover a reference upon which they wished to act. He did not regard the proposed publication as a substitute for the Journals, for the Votes, or for  Hansard Hansard 409
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  objected to the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Kilmarnock on two grounds. One was, that though not directly or in distinct terms, vet virtually it infringed a rule which had always hitherto been observed—namely, that whatever was printed bearing reference
 408
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he rose to move for leave to introduce a Bill to consolidate and amend the laws relating to industrial and; provident societies. He believed there would be no objection to the Bill, and on a future occasion he hoped he should have a better opportunity to explain the details of the measure.
 MR. COLLINS  said, the question as to the desirability or non-desirability of examinations did not at all apply, because, as ho understood the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for War to state, it was the intention of the Government to carry out that portion of the report of the Commissioners which stated that in all cases there should be a limited  bonâ fide 378 bonâ fide
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he would ask permission to trouble the House for a few minutes on the subject, because but for it he never should have troubled them at all. He never should have come into Parliament only for that question. When Sir John Romilly introduced his
 403
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  suggested, that "desirable" should be substituted for "practicable" in the Motion, or that both should be inserted, making the words run "practicable and desirable." As to a compendious record, he thought they had a very excellent compendium already in  The Parliamentary Record
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : But the hon. Gentleman gives me no means of reference to verify his facts. There are considerable variations in the amount of these duties, and you cannot argue from a particular year that the increase on that year will continue in the following and all future years. As I have said, I have had no opportunity of testing the hon. Gentleman's figures. But in an account extending from 1842 to 1856–1842 being the year from which dates the great spring of this country in wealth and prosperity—I find that during those fourteen years, instead of an annual increment of £100,000 a year, the increase of the duty is only £25,000 a year, and the hon. Member, therefore, ought only to deduct that amount instead of £100,000. However, whether the effect of the hon. Gentleman's Motion is to take away £300,000 or £500,000 from the Exchequer, my conclusion must be the same. He refers to data said to have been before supplied as to the value of the property which, in his glowing pictures, he believes will all be insured against fire if the duty is only reduced. But he is entirely wrong in assuming that those data are unquestioned. One of his allegations was, that there are 22,000,000 tons of shipping in this country, valued at £13 a ton, and in that way he made out a sum of close upon
 389 390 391 s d s d s s d 392 393 394
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The hon. Gentleman has given me no reference to documents to enable me to test his assertions.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I was in hopes that those hon. Members who intend to support the views of the hon. Gentleman would have taken an opportunity of stating their opinions, because it is obviously more convenient that the person whose duty it is to speak on behalf of the Government should hear what can be said by the advocates of a Motion which it is his duty to oppose. I must, therefore, come to the conclusion that hon. Gentlemen think that this subject has—in a great degree, I am bound to say, through the ingenuity, talent, and knowledge of the hon. Member—been exhausted in former years. I shall act upon that principle, but it would not be consistent with respect entirely to pass over the matter of the hon. Gentleman's speech. He began by asserting that the proper course for the Government to pursue was to allow his Bill to be introduced. I cannot admit that view, upon consideration either of precedent or of principle. I am not aware of any instance in which the Government has been a voluntary party to the introduction of a Bill affecting taxation unless it was prepared to assent to the mode of dealing with taxation which it proposed. I hope the House will meet this proposition at once, not only because such a course will be in accordance with precedent, but also because of the obvious mischief that would arise from the Parliament and the Government playing with questions of taxation, and admitting a preliminary step which they are not prepared to follow to its consequences. We should not allow expectations to be raised and hopes to be flattered out of doors with the conviction on our minds that these hopes and expectations must ultimately be disappointed. The hon. Gentleman says he is now proposing a gross reduction of £330,000. I demur to that proposition, as I do not think the reduction would be so small. He next says, that inasmuch as
 388
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I did not ask the hon. Member who wished him to postpone his Motion, but what Member of the Government told him the Government could not alter their arrangements for an independent Member?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Who told the hon. Gentleman that?
 MR. MORRISON  remarked, that some inconvenience might arise from the adoption of the Resolution of the hon. Member for King's County (Mr. Hennessy); but, so far as it affirmed the abstract proposition that the patronage of the Government ought not to be exercised from political considerations, he entirely concurred in it. As a very young Member of the House, he was hardly competent to speak of the practical working of a system of Government patronage; but the impression which prevailed out of doors was, that there was not much chance of a person being nominated for an appointment who was not friendly to those who sat on that (the Government) side of the House. He had not such a poor opinion of those constituencies which were so ill-judged as to return hon. Members sitting opposite to him, as to suppose that there were not among them persons of integrity and ability sufficient to afford valuable public service; and he would remind those who were most in favour of the system of Government patronage, that a time might come when their friends would be out of office, and when, probably, their opinions as to its expediency or propriety would undergo a change. As for heads of departments being made responsible for the subordinate  employés 369 370
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, he must deny that the training necessary for success in competitive examinations un-suited persons for the active and vigorous pursuits of life. He observed that a great number of the cricketers belonging to Trinity College, Dublin, obtained honours at the University; and he believed that the hon. and learned Member for Cambridge University (Mr. Walpole), who was so distinguished for his acquirements, offered while at college to pull a boat, together with his three brothers, against any other for brothers in the kingdom. If anything placed people in the outlying districts on a level with those living near head quarters, it was the system of competitive examination. He therefore concurred in the principle of the Motion proposed by the hon. Member for King's County, but he doubted whether it was not rather prematurely pressed forward at present, and he hoped it would be withdrawn.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, he would beg to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether he means to proceed with the Committee on the Poor Relief (Ireland) Bill before the Easter Recess; and whether he means to proceed with the other Irish measures before the Easter Recess?
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, that the noble Lord at the head of the Government had paid the landed proprietors of Ireland a very bad compliment. The noble Lord's speech amounted to this, that those proprietors were spendthrifts, and that their credit ought to be curtailed. He did not think that that general accusation was well founded, and he ventured to submit that the provident ought not to be punished for the faults of the improvident. The principle of land debentures was not new. It had been in operation for a great number of years in Prussia and other countries.
 MR. VANSITTART  said, he begged to second the Motion of the hon. Member for the King's County (Mr. Hennessy), and in doing so he would confine his observations to that part of it which related to the Indian Civil Service. It appeared that only so. recently as the last year the Governor General of India cabled upon the Lieutenant Governors and other district officers in Bengal, the North Western Provinces, Oude, and the Punjab, to state their opinions as to the comparative efficiency of the gentlemen who had entered the Civil Service under the old and new systems. Having had an opportunity of perusing those opinions, he thought it would not be uninteresting or profitless were he to state them to the House in a condensed form. Although the opinions of some fifty or sixty gentlemen had been given, it would be sufficient for his purpose to give those of four of them to enable hon. Members to form a very fair idea of the working of the competitive system in that country. Mr. Edmondstone, the Lieutenant Governor of the Forth Western Provinces, might be said to represent the opinions of the majority in the following extract from his able minute:—
 "There can be no question that as a class the civilians who have entered the service by competition are men of higher scholastic attainments and of better mental training than those who used to be received from Haileybury. For the secretariat and judicial appointments they will generally be found better fitted than their predecessors, but from the absence of an  esprit de corps "That the competitioners as a body do not come up to the same standard of perfection as was attained by the Haileybury men; that they are generally wanting in tone and manners of gentlemen—a point which is of great importance among quick-sighted people like the natives of India, and which imperatively requires to be attended to in a governing class; and that they are also wanting in that energy and bodily activity which is so essential to a district officer." 340 "If I wanted a well-written report, or a clear, well-considered judgment on a difficult case, I should expect to find the work best done by a competitioner. If I wanted a civilian to accompany troops, to ride 20 or 30 miles to suppress a disturbance, or to make an inquiry into losses sustained by calamities of season, I should be inclined to make my selection from men who had been educated at Haileybury." esprit de corps 341
 MR. VANSITTART  said, he wished to explain that what he had said was, that having thrown open the Indian service, it; would be unjust to preserve a close nomination to the Civil Service of this country.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If he intends introducing any measure this Session for the improvement of the retiring allowances of prison officers?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he must repeat the answer he had already given, that a Bill had been prepared on the subject, founded on a Report of a Committee of that House, but he could not say when it would be introduced, as he had received from the Lunacy Commissioners several suggestions relating to it of an important character, which must be submitted to the Poor Law Board. The Bill did contain a provision embodying the object referred to in the hon. Gentleman's question.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, as the hon. Member has not concluded his speech with a Motion, I do not know that I am in order in rising to make an observation. It was certainly to be expected that the hon. Gentleman should feel indignant at the gross charge which has been made against him, but the high character which he maintains is of itself sufficient vindication, and it was altogether unnecessary for him to rebut a charge which carries on the face of it its own refutation.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that if the hon. Member for Honiton would allow his Amendment to be negatived without opposition, the House would then have an opportunity of dividing upon the Previous Question.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, I will not detain the House for more than a few minutes, as I do not rise with the intention of entering upon the general question. But there is one part of this system which seems to me to be open to serious objection, and of which I desire to have some explanation from those who are competent to give it. With regard to the general question, I entirely concur in the tribute which the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for War has paid to the existing Civil Service Commissioners. I have long had the honour of the acquaintance of both those Gentlemen, and I believe that no difficult public duty was ever discharged with more perfect fairness than theirs has been. I have never heard of even the slightest suspicion of unfairness; but if the competitive system were extended as my hon. Friend desires, I cannot help fearing that considerable difficulty might be experienced in carrying on the examinations in such a manner as to avoid the perpetration of great injustice. The particular point to which I wish to call attention is the practice which did prevail, and, I believe, still prevails, of compelling young men who have held the position of temporary clerks in our great offices to undergo a competitive examination, and run the risk of having certificates refused to them, before permitting them to be placed on the permanent establishment of clerks. Nothing can be more completely objectionable or unjust than such a system. When I was at the Admiralty a case of this kind came before me. A young man held the office of temporary clerk in one of the dockyards, and conducted himself extremely well. After remaining there some time he was transferred to the Admiralty offices at Whitehall, and attached to the shipbuilding department, under Sir Baldwin Walker. His conduct was so good that Sir Baldwin Walker made a special application that he might be appointed permanent clerk and attached to that department. I at once acceded to the request, feeling that Sir Baldwin Walker was entitled to the assistance of a man whom he had found to be practically valuable. I was then told it was essential to the completion of the appointment that this young man, who had been five or six years in the public
 371
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  observed, that in the case of raising money by debentures upon land in England it was necessary to satisfy the Enclosure Commissioners that the money was to be spent in improving
 404
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he much regretted that he had not been able to make greater progress with the measure. It would, he feared, be impossible to proceed with it in Committee before Easter, but he should lose no opportunity of pressing it forward.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  replied, that it was perfectly true that the Select Committee of last year had made a recommendation for granting superannuation allowances to Workhouse Officers—a Bill had been prepared upon the subject, but he was unable at present to state at what period it would be introduced.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that the prison officers alluded to in the hon. and learned Baronet's question were at present placed under the Act of 1834, which was
 333
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, When the Account of Advances and Repayments ordered 17th February will be laid on the table?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I am not able to reply at once to the right hon. Gentleman's question, but on Thursday next I shall hope to be in a position to state on what day it is proposed to rise for the vacation.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : No difficulty ! Very well. But if there be no difficulty attendant on the process, I imagine the facility will lie rather in the rapidity with which nominal owners will be; dispossessed of their estates, and that in reality it will be properties and not debentures which will be made transferable from hand to hand.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, before the hon. Member replies, I wish to submit one or two observations to the House. The main argument that has been used in support of the Motion of my hon. Friend has been that this tax is objectionable. I should like any hon. Member to have the kindness to mention a tax to which some objection or other cannot be applied, such as that it is offensive to those who pay, that it is not sufficiently general in its scope, or that it applies to some particular article affecting some particular class of the community. No doubt it would be an exceedingly agreeable thing if the country could go on without taxation at all. If the array would be good enough
 398 399 "I vote for the introduction; but if I find, upon the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that the repeal of this particular duty will interfere with other arrangements which I should prefer, I should object to the second reading."
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : In the case of several debentures, some of which are paid regularly and some of which are not, what are the persona to do? Are they to apply for an immediate sale of the whale estate or of portions, and what portions?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I do not rise to oppose the Motion for leave to bring in the Bill, but I think the House ought seriously to consider the effects of the measure proposed by the lion, and learned Gentleman. He has told us that it would be safe, as not being liable to open a door for frond, and that it would be advantageous to the landed interests of Ireland. I have no doubt, with the arrangements stated by the hon. and learned Gentleman, it would be safe as far as the; holders of the debentures are concerned; though whether they would be altogether safe in regard to the payment of interest is a question between them and the owners of the land. But I submit that we have gone hitherto on principles diametrically opposed to those on which the Bill is founded. Experience showed that great public and private inconvenience arose from the fact that estates in Ireland were greatly encumbered, and that the nominal proprietor was frequently not the actual owner. No improvements, however desirable, could be made, and it was to correct this state of things that the Encumbered Estates Court was established, by which persons having estates deeply affected by mortgages were enabled to sell them without much expense, and to transfer them to new proprietors possessed of capital, who were therefore more advantageous for the public interest. But the tendency of this Bill is to encourage landowners to revert to that system of embarrassment from which the Landed Estates Court was intended to rescue them. The right hon. and learned Gentleman says, when a man buys an estate worth£40,000, he is to be allowed to create debentures to the extent of£20,000, bearing interest, I suppose, at 5 per cent. When he has paid interest on half the value of his estate, what will remain to him for the purpose of keeping up and cultivating the property? Everybody knows that the nominal rental of a landed estate is liable to very great drawbacks, amounting possibly to a fourth or a third, according to circumstances. I think the landowner would soon find that he had reduced him self very much to the condition of those proprietors whom it was thought expedient to relieve from the nominal ownership of their estates. Unlike the case of a mortgage, in which usually a single holder comes periodically for the interest of the money he has lent, there will be twenty or thirty holders of debentures, whose names, perhaps, the owner will hardly know, for
 402
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I have no objection to make to the proposal of my right hon. Friend. I have no doubt, if there could be afforded to Members of the two Houses a condensed compendium of the proceedings of each Session, it might be exceedingly useful. It is quite true that we have very accurate records already; but it is also true that those records are in a shape which makes them not very easy of reference. In the first place, with regard to the Journals, any one who refers to them must go to the libraries of one or the other House; whereas, in such a record as that now in contemplation, he would have the book to which he wanted to refer in his own possession. Therefore, I think the object is one well deserving the consideration of the Committee. On the other hand, there are, no doubt, circumstances which show that the proposal is one which ought to be maturely considered before it is: adopted. I think this is exactly the case in which the appointment of a Committee is a proper step to be taken; and if my right hon. Friend makes a good selection, of Members, I have no doubt that full consideration will be given to what the convenience of hon. Gentlemen may require, and what the privileges of the House may demand. If I. understand the matter rightly, I do not think that what is suggested will in way interfere with the publication of  Hansard
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that the hon. and learned Member for Reading (Sir F. Goldsmid) had given notice of a Motion for the omission of the clause; and, certainly, rather than that it should pass in its present shape it would be better to expunge it altogether. The clause as it stood would disturb and unsettle the existing state of the law regarding constructive notice, which was pretty well understood by those who had to investigate the title to property. It proposed to enact that where a purchaser for valuable consideration or a mortgagee had not direct notice of any instrument or incumbrance affecting the title to the property purchased, or taken in mortgage, but was sought to be charged by constructive notice, he should not he made liable by reason of any such instrument or incumbrance unless the court before which the question was raised should he of opinion that the conduct of such purchaser or mortgagee amounted to fraud, or unless the circumstances of the case were such as to satisfy the court not only that he might have acquired, but that in the exercise of ordinary care and diligence he ought to have acquired, the knowledge with which it was sought to affect him. Until there had been a judicial decision upon the words of the clause, nobody could tell what legal effect they would have; and he thought the Committee ought to pause before it substituted so vague a rule for principles already well known and defined. Moreover, the clause tended to favour the wrong party;
 425
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he was willing to take any course the House might desire as to printing the Amendment; but unless the proposition were acceded to, he should feel bound to oppose the clause altogether.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he would not press his Amendment until hon. Members had had an opportunity of seeing it in print. If, therefore, it was the pleasure of the Committee to pass the clause, he should move his Amendment upon the report. It was remarkable enough that no one could tell the Committee whether the clause altered the law or not; and, with great deference to noble and learned Lords who were said to have endorsed this provision, he should feel bound, if a division were called for, to vote against the clause.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he thought that legitimate objection had been taken to the clause.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he feared that noble Lords, when considering the Bill, had devoted their entire strength to the first clause, and then, finding the dinner hour
 429
 MR. LEFROY  said, when he came into the House that morning he was disposed to support the Amendment of the hon. Baronet the Member for Dublin; but after hearing the observations of his right hon. and learned Colleague (Mr. Whiteside) and the hon. and learned Member for Belfast, he should certainly regret that any step should be taken which would delay the
 423
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he was sure that the House had only one desire on the subject—to take the first opportunity of getting rid of a difficulty which had been felt in Ireland ever since the establishment in England of a system of registration of births, deaths, and marriages, twenty-five years ago. He gave the fullest credit to the Government of the Earl of Derby for their attempt to overcome that difficulty. The present Administration had also endeavoured to settle the question. When he was Chief Secretary, he introduced a Bill for the establishment of a uniform system of registration. At the request of the Irish Members that Bill was referred to a Select Committee, though he objected to that course, because he saw that it would be fatal to the Bill passing during the session. For the first time in the history of Ireland the Committee appointed to consider it exhibited a perfect concurrence of opinion among all religious denominations that there should be established a registration of marriages in Ireland. The Committee did not go into the registration of births and deaths, but it really solved the whole question, because the only difficulty was about the registration of marriages. That was a golden moment for settling the question, but it was near the close of the session, and just as the Committee was about to terminate its labours, a Resolution was moved in the House
 418 419
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he could not agree that the law upon the subject was at all settled, and, even if it could be called settled, that it was not open to great improvement. Neither could he agree that the clause left any doubt as to what should be the real test of notice. At present, if a person purchased an estate, and his solicitor took all possible pains to investigate the title by laying the deeds before a conveyancer, who reported them to be satisfactory, and after the completion of the purchase it appeared that a certain prior transaction mentioned in the deeds was untruly described—money advanced not having been repaid as stated—the mention of that transaction was held to be constructive notice. It was to remedy that injustice that the Bill was framed. The proposed measure, or one similar, had passed three times the House of Lords. and was recommended by the highest legal authorities in that House. He did not believe that the Amendment proposed by the hon. and learned Solicitor General would effect any improvement in the law,
 426
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, the clause would certainly introduce a new principle; and if the sense of the Committee generally should seem to be opposed to it, he would not put them to the trouble of dividing upon the subject.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he thought the penalty of felony for celebrating a marriage beyond the prescribed time was unnecessarily severe.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he hoped the House, without indulging in further discussion, would go into Committee at once. Not a single objection had been urged against the Bill which might not be disposed of in Committee.
 MR. MACDONOGH  said, the Bill came down from the House of Lords commended by the highest authority. The object of the Bill was to protect purchasers for valuable consideration, and to produce such a Bill Lord St. Leonards said had been the object of his life. The most serious evil and inconvenience with which this Bill proposes to deal is that of constructive notice. It was not enough that courts of equity had postponed the registered to the
 427 v "It is highly inconvenient for courts of equity to extend the doctrine of constructive notice: that where a person has actual notice of any matter of fact, there can be no danger of doing injustice, if he is held to be bound by all the consequences of that which he knows to exist. But when he has not actual notice, he ought not to be treated as if he had notice, unless the circumstances are such as to enable the court to say, not only that he might have acquired, but also that he ought to have acquired, the knowledge with which it is sought to affect him—that he would have acquired it but for his gross negligence in the conduct of the business in question."
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he thought it was better to leave to the Registrar General the appointment of the Clerks.
 MR. WHITESIDE  inquired what was the restricted time in the Church in England?
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that he would admit that the law of marriage in any country, but more especially in a country in which considerable differences in religious belief prevailed, was a subject with which it was most difficult to deal satisfactorily. In dealing with it, the late Government had proposed to embody their views in one measure, which he held was the right course to adopt; and when called upon to consider the matter in his capacity of law officer of the Crown, he had come to the conclusion that it was expedient to procure, if possible, a registration of the fact of marriage, and that by attaining that end the difficulties which stood in the way of Roman Catholics establishing their pedigrees or their right to property in the courts of law would be removed. The attempt, he might observe, was constantly made to put in evidence the certificate of the Roman Catholic priest as proof of the marriage; but that was worth nothing, inasmuch as no Act of Parliament imposed upon him the duty in that respect which was imposed on clergymen of the Established Church. In the case of Malone and O'Connor, for instance, the decision was that the certificate of the priest could not be received as legal proof. Now, as the Roman Catholics formed a large portion of the community in Ireland, it was
 416 417
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he was quite satisfied to follow the English example.
 MR. BAGWELL  said, he thought that little good would result from referring the Bill to a Select Committee, seeing that the whole question of Irish marriage law was
 413
 MR. GEORGE  observed, that Her Majesty's Government had been wanting in their duty in not taking up a Bill of so much importance as a Government measure. If the recommendation of the Select Committee of last year that duplicate registries of marriages should be kept, one at the place of marriage and the other at the Registrar General's in Dublin, were adopted, then there would exist that uniform registration of marriages which had so long been desired in Ireland. He would not, of course, resist the Motion for going into Committee on the Bill; but he was bound to say that, as it stood, it did not carry into effect the resolution at which the Committee upstairs had arrived with respect to the mode of registration by a large majority, and would fall very far short of the expectations of the community at large.
 MR. MALINS  remarked, that upon so abstruse a subject it would be impossible to discuss the Amendment unless it were printed.
 MR. MALINS  said, when the clause was before the House in previous Sessions he had been successful in causing its rejection; it now came in an altered shape, but the mischief still remained. The object of it was simply to carry into effect the law as it was laid down in the case of Hare  v 428
 MR. MALINS  would move the omission of the clause. It provided that in every case in which a clergyman was made a bankrupt under the Act of last Session, and the sequestration enforced against the living at the time of the bankruptcy, the sequestrating creditor should lose the advantage of his sequestration. He did not see how it was possible to maintain such a provision.
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, he should support the hon. and learned Member for Reading if he pressed his opposition to the clause to a division. The clause either made a change in the law or it did not. In the first case it was unnecessary; in the second case it would be mischievous. He could not pretend, on the moment, to pass an opinion on the effect of the Amendment of the hon. and learned Solicitor General.
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, if he thought that when they went into Committee upon the Bill there was the slightest chance of their labours ending in a satisfactory manner, he would readily assent to the Motion; but it was impossible that the Committee could adopt the Bill as it now stood. The hon. and learned Member for Belfast had done what the House had objected to last Session, namely, mixed up in his Bill two things which were entirely distinct—the religious celebration of marriages, and the registration of the evidence of marriages. It was admitted on all hands that numerous important alterations would have to be made in the Bill; but as these had not been printed, it would be utterly futile to go into Committee on the present occasion. He, however, thought that it would be discourteous to the hon. and learned Member to oppose the Motion, and he would suggest that they should go into Committee  pro formâ
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he could not support the clause. A sequestration creditor should not be placed in a worse position than a creditor under an execution.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that the law was not materially altered by the clause, which would not, if adopted, create confusion, because it was expressed in the very words of the decision which the courts now recognised and acted on. Out of deference to the high authorities from whom it had emanated he should support the clause.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he fully concurred with the hon. and learned Member who had just spoken in the opinion that the Government had failed in their duty in not dealing with the question. He was prepared to give the right hon. Baronet the present Chief Secretary for Ireland credit for the best intentions; but he must at the same time say that he had, in framing the measures which he had submitted to Parliament in the present Session, made choice of the very worst system on which they could be based—owing, no doubt, to his want of experience of the country and of legislation. It was held out to the English public and the world that Ireland had a  bonâ fide 414
 MR. TITE  said, that the trustees of Sir John Soane's Museum had very unwillingly consented to lend the objects in question to the Commissioners for the Royal Exhibition. They had, in fact, only been induced to adopt that course in order that the collection of Hogarth's pictures might be shown in a complete form at the Exhibition.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, he should oppose the Motion. It was to be regretted that a Bill of so much importance as regarded the social peace and happiness of the people of Ireland, had been allowed to be read a second time without any discussion. Nothing but the strongest sense of duty could have induced him to oppose a measure to which his hon. and learned
 412
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  stated, that he should oppose the passing of the clause unless the proposed Amendment of his hon. and learned Friend were assented to. High authorities in the House of Lords having been referred to, it might be well to consider how the House of Commons had dealt with preceding clauses of a similar nature. In I860 a clause to the same effect was objected to by the right hon. Gentleman the present Secretary of War, Mr. Deasy, and others; and the right hon. Member for the University of Cambridge, who had charge of the Bill, requested that the clause might pass  pro formâ
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, the effect of the clause would be to embarrass the judges, and to produce Chancery suit after Chancery suit. Whatever its effect might be, it professed to be something more than a declaratory clause; it would not tend to prevent the alleged vacillation of the judges, and it would lead to the utmost uncertainty.
 SIR GEORGE GREY,  in moving the second reading of this Bill, said that it; had been introduced for the purpose of enabling the trustees of that museum to lend certain objects of art to the Commissioners for the Royal Exhibition.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the clause had better stand as at present, otherwise banns might be published on only one Sunday and two saints' days immediately following, so that a marriage might he celebrated within one week, instead of, as the intention was, in three weeks.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  observed, that in practice the Registrar General appointed subject to the approval of the Lord Lieutenant, but he had not the least objection to the words proposed being introduced.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, the reason given why the House should not go into Committee —that there were various Amendments to be made in the Bill—was a very singular one. He should not have been surprised to find that a Bill consisting of between 100 and 200 clauses, contained a great deal which might be amended in Committee; but what were the facts? The Bill was prepared so far back as July last year; it was introduced at the very commencement of the present Session, no attempt had been made to hurry it forward; the second reading was unopposed, and up to that day not a single Amendment had been put upon the paper. He had every reason for believ-
 420 421 422
 SIR PHILIP EGERTON  said, that as a trustee he could corroborate the statement that the trustees had reluctantly given their consent to the Bill which authorized the removal of the Hogarth pictures from the Museum to the International Exhibition. He would, however, express a hope that the example thus given would not be lost upon the trustees of other institutions.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he thought they might discuss the clauses of the Bill in Committee with advantage, and thus succeed in passing a measure which would be acceptable and useful in Ireland. The hon. and learned Member, who, as usual, imported the police into the question under discussion, was mistaken in supposing the Government had been wanting in their duty in not proposing a measure dealing with it. The facts of the case were that the Bill had been brought in early in the Session by the hon. and learned Member for Belfast, when he himself had intimated that it was the intention of the Government to introduce a Bill on the subject; that Bill, out of respect for the hon. and learned Member for Belfast, he proposed not to lay on the table until the measure of which he had given notice had been produced. That being so, the Bill of the hon. and learned Gentleman proceeded to a second reading, and met with such universal approval that nobody opposed it; and he could not help thinking that it would not, under those circumstances, be well for the Government to interfere with the views of the Irish Members. The remarks, therefore, which had been made by the hon. and learned Member for Cork as to the inexperience of Irish Secretaries were not very appropriate on the present occasion, seeing that he himself, in the course he took, had merely deferred to a distinguished Irish Member, and consented to leave the matter in his hands. Of that Bill itself he must say that he thought some of its provisions required very considerable amendment. It would, for instance, he thought, be impossible to work with advantage a system in accordance with which the clergy of all denominations of Christians in Ireland—of which he believed there were no less than sixtyfour—should be called upon immediately to send a register to the Registrar General
 415
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  replied, that the hours were eight to twelve; but he approved of the clause in the present Bill, which extended the time till two.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he would move the insertion of the words "the Lord Lieutenant, or Registrar General subject to the approval of the Lord Lieutenant."
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  suggested the introduction of the word "holidays."
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : The clause says "wilfully."
 MR. COWPER  said, the artist to whom the commission had been given to prepare the model had received his instructions on the subject in November, 1858. Three years and a half had, therefore, elapsed since the order had been given. The model, however, was not yet completed. He was sorry that so long a delay should have occurred in the matter; but he presumed the time had not been wasted, and that the artist was preparing himself by preliminary study for the better execution of his design. He was not able to inform the House when the model would be ready, but he had no doubt that the sum voted would be found sufficient for the purpose for which it was intended
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that steps in the matter would be taken as soon as there were any funds applicable to the purpose, and as soon as more urgent works were completed. From information he had received, he was inclined to believe the ground in question was not in a more unsightly state than Downing Street went was and had been for some years.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that instructions had been given to Mr. Stephens to collect the various statistics on the subject, with a view to framing a Consolidation Bill.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, there was no prospect of its being ready to bring before the House during the present Session.
 MR. PEEL  in reply said, the Return ordered on the 17th of February, as to malt, would be laid on the table in the course of the week. With respect to the Return ordered at the same time as to hops, it would be ready shortly.
 MR. PACKE  said, that he thought it would be unfair to small consumers of beer who brewed at home to make them pay an equal licence duty to others who had a large consumption. The operation of the brewing licence in that respect would cause very great dissatisfaction, especially in the rural parts of the country. He hoped, therefore, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would take that question in to consideration, and at any rate so remodel that part of his proposition as to ensure its acting with equality and fairness.
 MR. PHILIPPS  said, the great advantage resulting from the course pursued by a Chancellor of the Exchequer in bringing forward his financial statement so early in the year was, that it enabled persons to obtain a connected view of the finances of the country. As one of those who voted in the minority on the fire insurance question the other night, he felt that he had been placed in a false position by the manner in which that subject was brought forward. If the income and expenditure for the year did not balance, it was clear that in voting for the reduction of a particular tax, hon. Members were not giving a merely affirmative vote with regard to it, but were, in fact, voting for the imposition of some other tax in its stead. Until he was in possession of a connected view of the finances of the nation, he should have felt equally bound to oppose any merely affirmative Motion for the reduction or
 504 d
 MR. HEYGATE  said, that the retrospective consideration of our policy as regarded finance was by no means agreeable. In the previous year there was a deficit of about £2,500,000, and in the present year the excess of ordinary expenditure over income amounted to no less a sum than £1,442,000, whilst the Exchequer balances were annually diminished, although they were years of European peace, and although, during all that time, the House had voted supplies with no niggardly hand. Such results as those were by no means satisfactory, and could not be defended by the allegation that the Chinese war and the affairs of the  Trent "I admit that the only firm and permanent foundation on which we can stand is that which has for its basis an even balance between income and expenditure," 507
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he was much disappointed by the retention of the penny charge on packages, and other minor charges. Great labour and inconvenience were caused to shipowners by the detailed statement of the cargo required on account of those insignificant imposts. As a specimen of those statements, he had with him a long roll no less than fifty-four feet in length, and which would reach half across the floor of the House. The right hon. Gentleman might be unable to reduce taxes
 510
 MR. COWPER  said, the Vote was for the ordinary expenses in connection with the Houses of Parliament, and contained no item for building purposes. He could not say that any great reduction of the amount in future years was to be expected.
 MR. COWPER  said, the oil used in the Houses of Parliament was supplied under a contract which had been in force for a long period. He had given orders, however, that it should be discontinued at the end of six months, when a new, and he hoped a more economical, arrangement would be made. Reference had been made to the statues in the Royal Gallery. The Estimate of 1860 had been so framed as to commit the House to a long series of statues from the earliest to the last Sovereign. The House was unwilling to be so committed, and the Vote was withdrawn. Last Session the House voted four statues as a portion of a chronological series of twelve, which were required for the decoration of the Royal Gallery; and the Estimate for the present year contained an item for two more statues, also a porportion of the series of twelve. He believed that those two statues, which were to be executed in accordance with the recommendation of the Fine Arts Commission, would represent Sovereigns whom he was
 521
 MR. COWPER  said, he would remind the hon. Gentleman that the Estimates last year only passed in August, and such was the punctiliousness of the Office of Works that they did not give their orders till the Estimates were passsed. The £54,000 would be paid for the orders so given.
 MR. COWPER  said, that the records of the House of Lords were encroaching so much upon the disposable space in the passages and offices of that House that the Clerk of Parliaments had made application that they should be lodged in some other situation, and there appeared to be no other place for them than the Victoria Tower. There were at present but two rooms fitted up, and the item in the Vote was intended to fit up another floor. There were altogether sixty-four rooms in the Victoria Tower. He hoped the hon. Member for Peterborough (Mr. Whalley) would not ask him to follow him in his historical discussion. Whatever inferences the hon. Gentleman might draw from the facts, it was not to be denied that St. Augustine had baptized the Saxon King, and that important event was represented on the walls of the House of Lords. It was an historical fact which might very properly be represented. He quite sympathized with the hon. Members in their admiration of Oliver Cromwell, and he should be glad to see a well-executed statue of that great ruler in a suitable place. However, they had so little encouragement in the erection of statues that Members should not be surprised if he did not propose any more. If the House were inclined to have one erected hereafter, such a proposition would meet with no discouragement from him; but on the present occasion they could, only discuss the statues in the Estimates, and they were limited to those of William III. and Queen Mary as part of a series.
 MR. COWPER  said, that the Sultan had made a present of the site to the British mission, and consequently it was natural that they should spend a little sum in keeping up the house and giving the British Ambassador the benefit of the Sultan's liberality.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, the embassy-house at Constantinople had been burnt down some twenty-five years ago, and had been rebuilt at enormous expense. Since he had been in Parliament large demands had been made for maintaining it. Therapia was a very bad place for carrying on diplomatic relations, but during the summer the ambassador went there from the heat. He did not know why the ambassador should not keep up the house at Therapia at his own expense.
 MR. COWPER  said, it was economical that the Office of Works should have an officer of their own residing at the Paris Embassy, otherwise they would have to be constantly sending over some one whenever repairs were wanting. He did not think the item of £500 for "casual and ordinary repairs and painting, furniture, fittings, and contingencies" of the ambassador's house at Therapia was too much. The Committee could not wish that our ambassador should not reside during the summer months at Therapia, where all the other embassies had houses, and where the Turkish Ministers also resided.
 MR. COWPER  said, he had thought it better to confine himself to the Vote before the Committee, and he could state that the sum was not more than was necessary for the coming year. He could not agree with the proposition that having a clerk of the works was likely to increase the expense of repairs; for being paid by a fixed salary, if there were any temptation at all, it would be to do little rather than much, If, on the other hand, the repairs were left to local tradesmen, they would have an interest in running up a bill. It would be the most short-sighted economy to remove the clerk of the works at Constantinople, for it was not a place in which contracts to keep the ambassador's house in repair could be entered into. The ambassador's house at Paris was rather an old one, and had required very serious repairs. It was thought desirable to send over a surveyor to Paris from time to time, instead of trusting entirely to French architects, when more serious repairs were required. If the clerks of the works were removed, the Board of Works would lose the only check they now had on the expenditure for repairs in these capitals.
 MR. COWPER  said, the sum proposed was the amount which, judging from past
 526
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, he fully concurred in the principle of the Government taking those houses for our ambassadors, and therefore he should deeply regret any such reduction in the Vote as the Amendment contemplated.
 MR. PEEL  said, that the case under consideration was exceptional. A reduction of the Vote would amount to a breach of engagement to which the Government had deliberately bound themselves.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he had to complain that the statement of the revenue from Ireland was perfectly delusive. The taxes raised in that country were only returned as £7,000,000; whereas in reality
 529
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he found great difficulty in voting against any of the names proposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, but he thought that the right hon. Gentleman had not dealt fairly with Ireland.
 MAJOR HAMILTON  observed, that he should not be doing his duty if he did not join the Irish brigade in their request on this occasion.
 MR. COWPER  said, that his objection to giving the Returns was, that all these details would be thoroughly sifted by the Committee to which the Bill would be referred.
 LORD ERNEST BRUCE  said, he should be glad to have some explanations with respect to the embassy-house at Paris.
 LORD LOVAINE  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, How soon it is expected that the monument of the late Duke of Wellington, in St.
 445
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, that all that had been said only showed that the large sums in former years for this purpose had been wasted. That was hardly a good reason why the Committee should now vote upwards of another £2,000.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, that the Government ought to give the Committee grounds for supposing that these sums would be required, and that they would be duly appropriated. The right hon. Gentleman ought to explain how the sums voted for previous years had been appropriated. He should vote for the Amendment.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he wished to ask if it was competent for the Chancellor of the Exchequer to add another name after the House had agreed that the appointment of the Committee should be a Standing Order, and that the Committee should consist of nine Members.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  observed, that if Irish accounts were mismanaged, the fault was to some extent that of the Irish Members, who paid little attention to them.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he wished to call attention to an item of £2,668 for the houses of our ambassador to Turkey at Constantinople and Therapia, and to ask how it was that so large a sum was required?
 MR. AYRTON  said, that four statues to Sovereigns of this country had already been erected. The four selected had been Charles I., George I., George IV., and William IV. That year two new ones were to be added, and it would be instructive to know which of the kings were considered equal in merit to George IV. and Charles I.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he wished to ask whether the licences to brew in houses above £20 rental applied to cases where beer was brewed not for sale.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he also desired to know the names of the two sovereigns for whose statues the item of £1,600 was proposed. He objected to frescoes being placed in such a position that the only light falling upon them came through painted glass windows.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he also would press upon the Government not to go into Supply that night. They had passed the Army and Navy Estimates, which embraced two-fifths of the expenditure. The National Debt took other two-fifths, and they had now only to deal with the Civil Service Estimates, which were the remaining fifth. It was only by reducing the expenditure under that head that they would be enabled to make ends meet; and as those Estimates required careful con-
 518 Resolved That, towards raising the Supply granted to Her Majesty, in lieu of the Duties of Customs now charged on the articles under mentioned, the following Duties of Customs shall be charged thereon on importation into great Britain and Ireland, on and after the 4th day of April 1862: viz. [ See Table d No more than 10 per cent of Proof Spirit shall be used in the fortifying of any Wine in Bond; nor shall any Wine be fortified in Bond to a greater degree of strength than 40 per cent of such Proof Spirit.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  observed, that while the proposed Vote was for £33,000, there appeared to be on the 20th of February a balance of £54,000 on last year's Vote. For what purpose was that £54,000 required?
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he would move as an Amendment the reduction of the Vote by £1,500 the item for repairs to the British embassy-house at the Hague.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  intimated that he would not press his opposition to the Vote.
 MR. BUXTON  said, that as a brewer he thought that nothing could be fairer than the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman with respect to the hop duty. It left the brewers pretty much where they were before. As the representative, however, of a Kentish borough (Maidstone), he thanked the right hon. Gentleman for the compromise, which he believed would conduce to the prosperity of the country. He was very glad that private gentlemen were about to be brought into the confraternity of licensed brewers.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, there was not one of the Gentlemen that had been proposed to whom he could object, but he protested against the idea that the House was bound by any arrangement made out of it. He should vote for all the names, but he would support a Motion for the addition of another Member.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, he lived in a hop district, and he thought that unless the duty on brewing were accepted, the hop-growers had no valid claim for relief. On the whole, he approved of the budget; and so, he believed, would the country generally. He wished to know, whether the Ottoman Loan was to be taxed? If the wine duties were to commence on the next day, it was rather invidious that the capitalists should go free. On the whole, he thought it would be rather a surprise to our friends on the other side of the water, that, notwithstanding the loss of their trade, we had got so far into the year without being utterly ruined; and it ought to be a matter of great pride to ourselves to see with what patience the sufferings caused by the disturbance in our trade and manufactures had been borne by our labouring population.
 MR. BALL  said, he could have wished that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had taken into his consideration the claims of the very numerous and important class of the community
 495 s d
 MR. HOWES  said, he rose to ask whether the 12 s d
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, that notwithstanding what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, he must assert the necessity of having two Irish and two Scotch. Members upon the Committee. He must also deny the assumption of the right hon. Gentleman that because a man had served for one Session he was therefore, as a matter of course, to serve on the Committee again.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he should not oppose the Motion, although he thought the Committee would remove responsibility from the Government. On that ground he very strongly objected to the constitution of the Committee.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, that he should object to the appointment of that right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he wished to inquire at what time it is likely the Bill will be introduced?
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he regrettted that the right hon. Gentleman had neither answered his question, nor expressed any opinion respecting Oliver Cromwell. He rose, however, to call attention to the fact, that the most conspicuous place in the House of Lords had been given to a fresco depicting Augustine baptizing some Saxon king, which he understood was intended to represent the introduction of Christianity into this island, but which he could not designate otherwise than as a gross and palpable falsification of all history. It rather represented the authority of the Popes of Rome. ["Oh, oh !"] Christianity had been introduced into this country five hundred years before either Augustine or the Pope existed. He wished to know under whose direction such a perversion of our national history had been perpetrated.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he would beg leave to ask whether the name of Oliver Cromwell had ever suggested itself to the Chief Commissioner. [ A laugh
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  said, the payment to a clerk of the Works at Paris of £185 was an enormous charge for superintending the repairs of a house that was nearly new. There was also an item for a surveyor to look after the clerk of the works.
 MR. PEASE  said, he believed that when the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer was read in moneyed circles on the following morning, the pains which the right hon. Gentleman had taken to bring forward and explain all the items of the Budget, some of which were new, would be highly appreciated by a commercial country, that relied so much on correct statements of figures; and that he would receive credit for ability, fairness, and lucidity of statement. It was quite, manifest that there could be no diminution of taxation except by a careful attention to the expenditure authorized by the House of Commons. Only last year the Chancellor of the Exchequer informed the House, that notwithstanding the enormous increase of the property of the country, he found the expenditure authorized by the House had more than kept pace with it. And if that had been the case in prosperous years, it especially behaved hon. Members, in the interest of their constituents, to endeavour to keep down those expenses, which could only be defrayed by additional taxation, and as far as possible to remove such taxes as those upon tea and sugar, which pressed so heavily upon the toiling millions, who were the source of the strength and wealth of the country.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he rose to ask Mr. Attorney General, If he will state to the House what steps the Government intend to take with a view to the consolidation and amendment of the Church Building Acts?
 MR. FREELAND  said, he thought those past Votes had a most important and material bearing on the question. The repairs of one year, if well done, would obviate the necessity of further repairs in a subsequent year. Not only were repairs executed at great expense when Sir Henry Bulwer went to Constantinople, but others had been executed at a later period. The Committee were now invited to vote £2,600 odd for this purpose, the corresponding charge last year being £2,000.  L'appétit vient en mangeant
 MR. FREELAND  said, this was not "a little sum;" it was a very large item —£2,668. For the year ending March 31, 1861, the embassy-houses at Constantinople and Therapia had cost £2,350, and for 1862 the cost was £2000, so that the total for the three years would be £7,018. The item was perfectly monstrous. If a grand Turk had come over here, and thought of building a new wing to his house for a seraglio, that sum would be sufficient to build it; but, of course, in the case of the British Ambassador, no such appendage to his residence would be required.
 MR. MILDMAY  said, he wished to ask how it was that so large a sum as £1,200 was required for haircloth, &c.
 MR. MILDMAY  said, he thought the salary of £185 for "the clerk of works in charge" at Paris most objectionable. Such a clerk, if kept up, would find work to do.
 MR. WHITE  said, he should not have ventured to offer any observations to the Committee but for the reproachful glance and upbraiding words which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had addressed to those Members who voted the other evening for the Motion for the remission of the fire insurance duty. He begged to assure the right hon. Gentleman that he spoke not alone his own sentiments but those of some of his hon. Friends around him, when he said that many hon. Gentlemen were prepared to vote for the remission, not only of that tax, but of the malt tax and income tax, simply because they saw no other means of obtaining a diminution of expenditure save by a diminution of revenue. He could not join in the congratulations which the right hon. Gentleman had received on his speech, for he thought it was rather a melancholy exhibition. He missed the earnest eloquence with which he usually adorned, and the heart and soul which he threw into his speeches. It was painful to hear the tone of compunction, almost of remorse, with which
 512 s d
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he thought that it would be well to add a Scotch and an Irish Member to the Committee.
 MR. SPEAKER  said it was not.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the question before the House was not the constitution of the Committee, but whether its appointment should be made a Standing Order.
 MR. DODSON  said, that on behalf of the hopgrowers, he begged to tender their sincere thanks to the right hon. Gentleman for proposing the abolition of the hop duty. He congratulated him on taking this step, for seldom had any tax been repealed
 496 497
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he wished to ask whether it was intended that the Committee should deal with English accounts only, or that its operation should be extended to the United Kingdom? If to the latter, he objected to the constitution of the Committee as it was to be proposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He thought that there ought to be upon it some representative of Ireland.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that it was plain from the evidence taken before the Committee last year that the English Members did not understand Irish Accounts.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he would then move that the debate be adjourned, in order to give the Chancellor of the Exchequer the opportunity of considering whether he would not consent to the enlargement of the Committee.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that out of respect for the leader of the House, and not wishing to keep him there longer at so late an hour, the opposition would no longer be persisted in.
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he had understood the right hon. Gentleman as suggesting a postponement of the Resolution he intended to move with regard to the income tax. He wished, therefore, to ask at what period he could submit his Resolution to the House without inconveniencing the right hon. Gentleman?
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he would accept the suggestion; he would move his Resolution after Easter.
 MR. HUBBARD  said, nothing could be further from his wishes than to propose the Resolutions, to which the right hon. Gentleman had referred, with a view to embarrass Her Majesty's Government, or to delay the necessary work of the country; but the question was one of immense importance. The tax which would expire within forty-eight hours had taken from the taxpayers of the country £11,000,000 sterling in the course of the last year, and, as it stood on the estimate of the right hon. Gentleman, it was to be productive of £10,000,000 for the year ensuing. It was of importance that such a tax should be levied upon something like equitable principles, and therefore he felt he should be wanting in his duty if he did not take the earliest opportunity of enabling the House to pronounce its opinion on the inequality of the existing tax. Up to the last moment he had waited with some hope that the right hon. Gentleman would have intimated that he intended to give some relief from the inequalities of the tax; but as he had not done so, it must be assumed that the right hon. Gentleman proposed to renew it in all its deformity. He had, therefore, no alternative but to bring his Resolutions before the House at the earliest opportunity.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, When the Returns, moved for on the 17th of February, respecting malt, hops, &c., will be laid upon the table of the House?
 MR. NORRIS  said, he could not but take exception to the proposition of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to impose a licence tax of 12 s d 506
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, it would be convenient to the House if the noble Lord at the head of the Government would state when it was proposed to adjourn for the Easter holydays.
 MR. J. C EWART  observed, that be quite agreed with his hon. Colleague that the petty taxes upon exports and imports operated as continual blisters on commerce. It would be very desirable if some inquiry could be made into the subject, and some better mode of raising the money might be found.
 MR. MARSH  said, be would congratulate the Chancellor of the Exchequer on his budget generally. Especially he was pleased with the abolition of the hop-duty; next year he hoped to see an end of the malt tax; and if a tax was necessary, he would like to see it placed, not on the raw material of hops and malt, but on the manufactured article, beer.
 MR. KENDALL  said, he wished to have some explanation of the item for lighting. There were in or about the building some 5,000 gaslights, and about 200 argand lamps. Nevertheless, while the expense of the former (which were equal to 7,000 argand lamps) was only £2,500, the 200 oil lamps actually cost £2,000.
 MR. O'BRIEN  said, he should vote against the name of the Secretary of the Treasury, because his name was not on the list which had been agreed on by the Irish Members.
 MR. O'BRIEN  said, it would be considered a slight to Ireland if no Irishman was on the Committee. He thought the Government ought to defer to the wishes expressed by so large a section of the House.
 MR. CRAWFORD  seconded the Motion.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he wished to know whether the simplification of the wine duties would take effect the next day; and whether the reports that had been received from those persons who had been sent to examine the resources of the wine growing countries would be laid on the table?
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he regarded the statement they had just heard as a fair and honourable statement on the part of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and he thought it was not the less fair and honourable that an hon. Gentleman who would be largely affected by it should get up and express his assent to the scheme. He had never heard a financial statement in which the principles upon which it was founded were more clearly or more eloquently expressed, and in a manner to carry conviction to the minds of all, than that which the right hon. Gentleman had that night presented, On the part of his constituents he begged to say that the proposed arrangements with respect to the wine duties would be received with great satisfaction, as they would have the effect of doing away with the necessity of the alcoholic test in almost all cases. That sort of wine to which the alcoholic test would be applied was imported in so limited a quantity that practically the test would be abolished. With regard to the sugar duties, representing, as he did, the Mauritius, the East and West India interest, and the interest of the refiners, he thought nothing could be more fair than the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman that they should have an opportunity, if any hon. Member should move for a Select Committee, of stating their case before them. He begged to offer his congratulations to the right hon. Gentleman and the hon. Member for Rochdale (Mr. Cobden) on the effects of the French Treaty. On the whole, the Budget would, the believed, be received with satisfaction by the country, although, perhaps, it might be considered in some respects rather an immoral budget, when it was seen what facilities it offered to card-playing and tippling at fairs. Exceptions might, perhaps, be taken to those propositions; but the thought any objections to them on the ground of immorality would be purely imaginary, and that, upon the whole, the budget would, he believed, give great satisfaction and content throughout the country.
 MR. SLANEY  observed, that in his opinion the able statement of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer evinced a clearness as to the subject, and was hopeful as to the future. The increased taxation of the country was owing to a rivalry between nations. There ought to be an endeavour made by the various Governments of Europe to come to an understanding whereby the advantage of all would be consulted in the reduction of those armaments which entailed so much expense on each power. That great and powerful monarch the Emperor of the French, he believed, was peacefully inclined, as he had shown a disposition lately to reduce his armaments. He (Mr. Slaney) thought that this country ought to do the same. He hoped that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would reconsider his proposition respecting private brewing, as he believed that such an impost would prove most unfair and injurious to the moral interests of the industrial classes. In respect to the income tax, he thought it only just that the opulent classes of this country should bear the great burden of that impost, and that the humbler and industrious classes should be relieved of the weight of taxation. In regard to the sufferings of the people in the manufacturing districts from the want of cotton, he might mention that the lower parts of Italy possessed capabilities of growing that article to a great extent, and he thought it would be worth our while to encourage the people there to cultivate the growth of cotton, and to exchange it for the products of this country which they were more in want of. Having recently travelled in Italy, he could bear testimony to the prosperity that was opening in that country now that the Italians were becoming a free and united population.
 MR. HORSFALL , said, that he did not rise to make any comment on the general statement of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, which he believed, on the whole, would be considered satisfactory; but, as representing a large commercial constituency, he must express his regret, which he had reason to think would be participated in by the merchants and shippers of the various ports, that the right hon. Gentleman had not done anything to remove those minor, but vexatious, charges to which they were at present subjected. He was well aware of the right hon. Gentleman's statement that in the present state of the Exchequer he could not afford to remove them, but he hoped that their continuance would not be of long duration. The charge of one penny on what were called "units of entry" was most objectionable. The right hon. Gentleman took credit for the Government having years ago removed a large number of charges from the Customs; indeed, there was but a small number of articles now charged with Customs duty, but about 120 articles had been added to the list by the "units of entry." It was not so much the charge itself as the way in which it was collected that made the penny tax on those units vexatious to the persons who had to pay it. For instance, 1 d d d d d d d d d 500 s d
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  said, he was satisfied with the statement of the right hon. Gentleman; but he hoped, that as the income tax might now be considered as a permanent impost, the right hon. Gentleman would be prepared on Monday to state whether he could hold out any hope of introducing an improved mode of assessing and collecting it. He could assure the right hon. Gentleman that great irritation had been caused in the country by
 503
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said he would remind the Committee of the report of last year, which recommended as the best economy that the Government should take the houses for the ambassadors upon lease, on an understanding that a certain percentage should be deducted from the salaries of the ministers to meet the expenses attending them. It was well known that it was often very difficult and sometimes impossible for the ambassadors to procure houses for themselves by the year, as they were, of course, precluded from taking them on lease from a consciousness of their own uncertainty of tenure.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  moved that the Resolution of the 31 st of March be a Standing Order of the House.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the point was one of detail. He was glad the principle was agreed to, and he would consider the matter for a day or two, to see whether the part of the Resolution referring to private brewers could be arranged to the satisfaction of the Committee.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Gentleman would derive no advantage whatever from moving his Resolution before the discussion of the Bill he was about to propose. It was not a change in the Bill for the present year, but a permanent change in the tax, the hon. Gentleman wished to make. That would require a very long discussion, whilst the income tax was intended to
 517
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The proposition of the hon. Baronet amounts to this—that the financial measures of the Government should be published before the financial statement was made, and that would be attended with
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would how reply to some of the many hon. Gentlemen who had addressed the House; and if others should refer to any isolated subjects, he should be perfectly prepared at a subsequent period of the evening to answer them. The hon. Member for Stamford (Sir S. Northcote) asked two or three questions immediately pertaining to the financial statement. The hon. Gentleman asked whether the Committee were to understand that he proposed to take a Vote of Credit for £500,000 on account of the Chinese expenditure. What he meant was, not that a Vote of Credit was necessary, for his belief was that the Vote of Credit which they already had was perfectly sufficient to enable them to make the payments, but that that was the amount of debt over and above the receipts which would probably stand in the expenditure of the year on account of China. He stated last year that probably £1,750,000 was the amount outstanding of Chinese charges, and he did not suppose that the amount would be much higher. His hon. Friend asked why he ventured to estimate the Excise for the coming year to be as much as the actual produce during the last year, when he was about to lose the remaining fraction of the paper duty.
 513 514 d s d 515 s d s d 516
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he would then propose that the Committee on Public Accounts in the present Session should consist of Sir Francis Baring, Mr. E. P. Bouverie, Sir Stafford Northcote, Mr. Peel, Mr. Glyn, Mr. Cobden, Sir Henry Willoughby, Mr. Howes, and Mr. Walpole. He wished to state at the same time that it had never entered into the heads of those by whom those hon. Members were selected that there could be the slightest reason for inquiring to what part of the United Kingdom any one of the Members belonged. Of the two vacancies which had arisen in the Committee, one had been filled by the nomination of Mr. Walpole and the other by that of Mr. Bouverie. Especial care was necessary in choosing a successor to Sir James Graham, who hardly ever had a rival, and never a superior, in his acquaintance with the forms and business of the House, in his intuitive perception of all administrative questions, his immense knowledge of public affairs, the comprehensive and accurate judgment which he applied in dealing with matters like this, or in his unbounded readiness to give the benefit of his acquirements, his talents, and experience both to this House and to all who were anxious to profit by them. The hon. Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. E. P. Bouverie) was chosen to fill the place of Sir James Graham, not because he was a Scotch Member, but on account of his competence and ability. Personal fitness ought to be the only guide in the choice of the Members of the Committee, and it was on that ground that he ventured to submit the names which he had put on the notice paper.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the House had decided, both in this and the previous Session, to retain the number of the Committee as it at present stood, and he must therefore decline to entertain any suggestion for its enlargement.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Mr. Massey, the statement which I have to submit to you on the present occasion is in some respects of a simpler character than those which, on former oc-
 447 448 449 450 451 d d d d 452 s d s d d 453 454 pro ratâ 455 pro ratâ 456 457 458 459 460 Sensation 461 462 463 464 "Cantabit vacuus coram latrone viator." 465 466 s d 467 locus 468 s 469 470 471 472 s d s d 473 s 474 s 475 
 
 Degrees of alcoholic strength. Gallons. 
 Between 17 and 18 918,000 
 " 18 " 19 467,000 
 " 23 " 24 48,000 
 " 24 " 25 30,000 
 " 25 " 26 48,000 
 " 26 " 27 52,000 
 " 27 " 28 147,000 
 " 28 " 29 171,000 
 " 29 " 30 344,000 
 " 34 " 35 2,225,000 
 " 35 " 36 2,019,000 
 " 36 " 37 2,373,000 minimum 476 s s d s d s d s s d d s s d s d 477 478 Aut Caesar, aut nihil 479 s d d s d s d d s d d s minimum d d 480a minimum minimum d minimum s s 480b d s d d d s s s d d minimum d 480c 480d s d Laughter s d s s 480e 481 482 483 484 485 486 487 d d d d d 488 Edinburgh Review "We can inform Jonathan what are the inevitable consequences of being too fond of glory,— taxes upon every article which enters into the
 489 490 491 492
 MR. MONSELL  said, that only £500 of the present Estimates was for the house at Therapia.
 MR. MONSELL  said, that the remarks of the hon. Member for Chichester (Mr. Freeland) had not been answered. During the last three years the sum of £2,500 had been spent in repairing the ambassador's house at Constantinople. He thought the Vote for the house at Therapia was nothing less than a piece of unnecessary extravagance. If they kept a clerk of the works there, they must expect he would find something to do. He would move, as an Amendment, that the Constantinople Vote of £2,668 be reduced by the sum of£1,000.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  observed, that a material point in the right hon. Gentleman's comparison of the revenue with that of 1859 appeared to have escaped notice. The year 1859 was the last of three successive years of good harvests and prosperous trade, whereas the present was the second year of an indifferent harvest and of a failing commerce. If they would only contrast the present year with 1839 or with 1848, the circumstances of which were somewhat similar, they could not help being struck with the remarkably hopeful prospects of the revenue. He was himself sanguine enough to hope that a great deal more would be clone to reduce taxes which interfered with the comforts of the people, and at the same time tended to cripple commerce; but he thought the right hon. Gentleman was acting with great prudence in declining to make the attempt for the present.
 COLONEL SYKES  observed, that it would be satisfactory to the right hon. Gentleman to know that information had been that day received from India of a new cotton supply. He was in a position to inform the House that fifty tons of cotton of a very superior staple had reached Calcutta from Burmah. He believed, that if the war continued in America another twelvemonth, the cultivation of cotton in India would be so extended that we should be independent of America for the supply of that article. Last year the supply from India was 258,000,000 lbs., but this year from Bombay alone it was 279,000,000 lbs., while in 1858–9 it was only 157,000,000 lbs. He would remind the Committee that the House had pledged itself to an expenditure of £12,000,000 in brick and mortar for fortifications, by the aid of a loan. If they went on spending money in that way and for such purposes, resulting from a groundless panic about invasion, there was an end of the favourable prospects held out by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. There was an outlay of three-quarters of a million for the troops in China; and it could not have entered into the mind of the hon. Gentleman that there was a probability of our being obliged to maintain our trade there by an
 501
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he desired to ask who the two Sovereigns were whose statues were to be added to the four which were already in progress?
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Why the ground at the corner of Great Ship Street and Upper Stephen Street, in the city of Dublin, which the War Office purchased several years ago is permitted to remain for so long a time in its present ruinous and dilapidated state; if it be still in contemplation of the War Office to build an addition to the Ship Street Barracks on this ground; and, if so, when the works will be commenced?
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  suggested, that the duty on brewing licences might be regulated in reference to the rent of the premises; some difference ought to be made between small houses and large establishments. The duty would still not be quite equal, but the inequality would not be so great as by the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. FRANK CROSSLEY  said, he quite concurred in the opinion which had been expressed, that the Budget would meet with the general approval of the country; but, at the same time, he must express his regret that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not been in a position to remit any considerable amount of taxation. The fact was, they had run into the most lavish expenditure, and it was impossible for any Chancellor of the Exchequer to produce a Budget that could be really satisfactory till an extensive retrenchment had been effected. The time was come for the application of the old watchwords, "Peace, retrenchment, and reform." With regard to peace, he would say that of late years,
 505
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  observed, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer estimated the income of the year at about £70,190,000, and the expenditure at £70,040,000. He had some doubt as to, whether there would be such a surplus as the right hon. Gentleman estimated. He had some doubt as to whether they were in posssesion of the entire of that class of accounts which came into the Miscellaneous Estimates. For instance, he would remind the Committee that the accounts from Kaffraria extended over a period of ten years; and on investigating them in the Committee of Accounts, it had been: found that no less a sum that £70,000 had been expended not only without the authority of Parliament, but, as far as they could find, without authority from any department in this country. In fact, he believed that expenditure had been incurred by parties in command in that distant country without any other authority whatever. He wished to know whether there was any other account of that kind outstanding, and he asked the question because it appeared, that when they came to examine the Treasury chest, it was found that a considerable sum had been advanced on account for the troops in China, he believed some £250,000 or £260,000. Now, was that account discharged, or was it still in existence? It was quite clear, that if there were accounts of this kind outstanding, the surplus of the right hon. Gentleman, such as it was, could not be; depended upon. He viewed the state of the finances opened by the right hon. Gentleman as rather a dangerous one. He did not think that with an expenditure of £70,000,000 a revenue of about the same amount could be considered satisfactory. The fire insurance duty was an objectionable tax; but he could not understand how the House could go on voting £70,000,000 expenditure with regard to the ways and means of providing the money. If the House was determined to spend £70,000,000 he was sure, that although the Chancellor of the Exchequer might tide over the year, it must end in increased taxation. He hoped the people would resist any further taxation in time of peace; but he feared that next March the right hon. Gentleman would be able
 502
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to know whether the account for the expenditure for building in connection with the Houses of Parliament was entirely closed; and whether might be reckoned as the average annual charge for keeping them up.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  thought the Committee ought to have the Resolutions before it, in a printed form, before it passed them.
 MR. CAIRD  said, he hoped that in the chronological series of Sovereigns it would not be forgotten that they were dealing with a united kingdom, and Scotland should not be overlooked.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he thought that the inhabitants of the metropolis ought to have fuller details than they now possessed with regard to a scheme which was estimated to cost a million and a half of money. He would therefore move for a Return of the estimated expenditure to carry into effect the provisions of the Thames Embankment Bill.
 SIR JOSEPH PAXTON  called attention to a sum of £3,000 for racks in the Victoria Tower for the reception of original acts, records, and documents.
 SIR JOSEPH PAXTON  said, the embassy at Paris comprised a large extent of building, and, considering the manner in which it ought to be kept up, the sum asked (£885) was not large. So also with respect to the Vote for the houses at Therapia and Constantinople, a large expenditure was required to keep them in order as they were built of wood.
 SIR JOSEPH PAXTON  said, he hoped the Government would not think of going into Committee of Supply that night. The House had been sitting six hours discussing the Budget, and hon. Members were exhausted.
 SIR JOSEPH PAXTON  said, the right hon. Gentleman must have been much gratified at the reception which his Budget had that year met with. Last year his financial statement was received with strong forebodings as to the position in which the right hon. Gentleman would be placed on the present occasion. The result had, however, shown that the apprehensions of hon. Gentlemen opposite were groundless. He (Sir J. Paxton) had ventured at the time to dissent from their prediction; for the information he had received from Paris satisfied him that great things might be expected from the commercial treaty. He had not, however, anticipated the calamitous events which had taken place in America. With regard to the present budget, he must say he thought the right hon. Gentleman would probably be disappointed in the yield of some of the taxes, for his connection with railways in the midland district showed him; that a general reduction was taking place in the manufactures of the country.
 SIR MATTHEW RIDLEY  said, if it were right that Parliament should grant money for the encouragement of the arts in this country, he would submit that the Committee had not exercised a proper discretion in endeavouring to promote that object by statues of the sovereigns of this country as part of the accessories of the House. The effect was, not to hold out the patronage of Government and the authority of Parliament to genius, but to give a helping hand to mediocre talent while they obtained works which did not excite the sympathies of those who looked upon them. The production of merely mediaeval statues would have no effect upon fine art in this country. But by inviting our artists to represent great incidents in our history, or noble passages in the poets, the Committee would really lend to genius a fostering hand. He regarded the annual Vote for statues produced by mediocre artists as mere waste of the public money, and he should therefore move the omission of the item of £1,600 for the two statues proposed that year.
 SIR MATTHEW RIDLEY  said, he altogether dissented from the opinion that
 522
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he wished to state, for the convenience of Irish Members, that it would not be possible for him to proceed with the Fairs and Markets, the Poor Law Relief, or the Registration of Births (Ireland) Bills, before the Easter recess.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he desired to express his unqualified satisfaction at the budget which had been presented to them that night. He would remind the Committee, however, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer could not be considered responsible for the enormous expenditure of the country, and could only be expected to do the best he could under the circumstances in which he found himself placed. All his efforts were frustrated by the extravagance of the Government. A glaring instance of their reckless expenditure was shown in the fact that after a neighbouring country had abandoned wooden ships altogether they had spent about £10,000,000 in building and £3,000,000 in repairing wooden ships. He had no hope that any reduction would be effected in the expenditure unless the House was prepared to take a business-like view of things, and, departing from the old line of routine, to take up plain questions of business when propounded to them in a plain, business-like spirit. He hoped the House would support the right hon. Gentleman, for they knew his mind and heart were bent upon rendering the country prosperous.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he would beg leave to suggest that there ought, without loss of time, to be placed in one of the most prominent positions the Houses of Parliament contained a statue executed by the first artist of the day of the late Prince Consort. Such a work of art, whatever its cost, would be one of those tributes which the country delighted to see paid to that virtue which so eminently distinguished the present reign, and which they were all so anxious to perpetuate.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  remarked, that the proceedings of the Committee would be very much crippled if the Secretary of the Treasury were not a member of it.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, the best wish which he could offer to the Budget was that it might be the only one; that year, for his right hon. Friend had dropped some expressions which seemed to show that he himself felt uneasy as to possible contingencies. His right hon. Friend began with a very small surplus, and they could not but feel that the re-
 494
 MR. BAZLEY  said, that it appeared to him that the converse of what the hon. Member for Leicester (Mr. Heygate) had suggested would be the best course to pursue. Instead of bringing up the income to the expenditure, he (Mr. Bazley) believed that it would be more agreeable that the expenditure should be limited to the amount of the income. He wished to congratulate the Government upon the financial statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and to express the deep obligation which he felt, and which he was sure the people of Lancashire would feel to the right hon. Gentleman for the sympathy which he had expressed with the present sufferings of those who were concerned in the cotton trade. He had truly stated that the price of cotton was then about double what it was a year before; and thus, although only about half the quantity was consumed that was manufactured at that time, the sum paid for the raw material remained the same. Twelve months ago they were paying £35,000,000 for the raw material; and although we now received only half the quantity which we obtained then, the sum expended remained the same. He calculated that the loss of remuneration to the labouring classes amounted to something like £12,000,000 per annum, or £1,000,000 per month. It was easy to see how much so great an abstraction from the funds of the labouring people must limit their comforts, and what a material effect it must have upon the revenue of the country; and unless they could obtain an abundant supply of the raw material, he should look to the coming financial year with dread. A little more than a year ago they were using some 85 per cent of American cotton, of other foreign cotton 8 per cent, and only 7 per cent of East Indian. Efforts had been made to alter that state of things, and already they were using a much larger proportion of East Indian cotton. Unfortunately, however, if our exports of cotton goods continued to diminish at the rate at which they had decreased last year, there would in the ensuing twelve months be a falling-off of some £20,000,000. He thought that the labouring classes employed in the cotton manufacture deserved the greatest credit for their exemplary conduct during this period of extreme distress; and though the House of Commons could do little to mitigate the distress, their sympathy would be grateful to those who were passing through it. The duty of the
 509
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, that last year he ventured to suggest that the right hon. Gentleman's Estimates, in regard to the Chinese indemnity was somewhat too sanguine. He understood that the arrangement come to between the British Government and those interested in the indemnity was, that half was to be paid in cash, and the other half in bills. The right hon. Gentleman had stated that the half which was to be paid in cash amounted to £193,000. But the sum absolutely ascertained to be due by Mr. Parkes, and assented to by the Earl of Elgin, was £650,000. Had another investigation taken place, and were there any outstanding claims beyond those recognised by the right hon. Gentleman? The facts proved that he (Mr. Fitzgerald) was almost literally accurate in the calculations he made last year on that subject. He said that about £450,000 would be received, and the actual receipts were £366,000, after making allowance for the loss on
 511
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, that he was fully aware of the fact that the house of our ambassador in Therapia was in an exceedingly bad state of repair, and in such a condition that no gentleman could be expected to reside in it. The money proposed for its repair was then absolutely necessary. As regarded our ambassador's house at Constantinople, understanding that the sum asked for its repair was only calculated upon an average of years, and that the money would not be expended if the repairs were not needed, he would certainly support the Vote.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, he believed that only a very small portion of the sums voted in past years were spent upon the house at Therapia.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he entirely concurred in what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman opposite in respect to the commutation of the hop duty. That measure, he believed, would prove very beneficial, and be received as a boon in the country, because farmers would have the satisfaction at least of knowing that the crop which they were growing would not be taxed as it used to be even when grown at a loss. He wished he could approve equally of all the other propositions of the right hon. Gentleman; but he was one who took great exception to the proposal to grant a three-days' spirit licence, permitting publicans to sell spirits on the ground at fairs. He had seen with regret the number of fairs gradually diminishing throughout the country, and the recreation of the people in that respect restricted; but the invariable argument for their suppression was, that they were scenes of drunkenness. If that was the case formerly, it would be much more so in future, when these ambulatory gin-shops were established, and fairs would be rendered unbearable in those neighbourhoods where it was desirable that the people should be enabled to enjoy rational recreation. He was not sanguine enough, in times like these, to expect a very flourishing financial statement from the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and certainly in the present year we should start without
 498 499
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : There are many questions. Sir, asked in this House the answer to which is not so interesting as that which is now put. What we propose is that we should adjourn for the Easter holydays either on Friday, the 11th, or on Monday, the 14th inst., our arrangement as to which day it should be being made dependent on the state of public business at the time. We propose that the adjournment should be to Monday, the 28th, which will give hon. Members a clear fortnight.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, there could not be worse economy than to give a large house to an ambassador and let it go out of repair. Everybody who had a house, great or small, knew by his own experience that in proportion to its size he must incur a certain annual expenditure for ordinary repairs. There was a Dutch proverb that painting and whitewash cost nothing—not, indeed, that these things had not to be paid for, but that the money spent on them prevented the necessity for much heavier outlays. His hon. Friend said there could be no need of a house at Therapia, because when he was at Constantinople years ago the embassy residence was burnt down, and our ambassador was then compelled to live at Therapia, when great inconvenience occurred, as during a great part of the year our ambassador had to be at Pera, in order to have communication with the diplomatists of other countries. But it should be remembered that in summer not only did the diplomatic agents of other Powers, but the Ministers of the Porte itself, all go to Therapia; and it would be inconvenient for the British ambassador alone to be kept at Constantinople at that season through not having a residence at Therapia. He should really hope that the Committee would not refuse the sum estimated for the ordinary repairs of the embassy house at Pera, which was very large, and intended for the accommodation not only of the ambassador, but also of the other members of the embassy. If the money voted should not really be required, it would not be spent.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he trusted the House would not object to go into Committee of Supply for an hour.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, When the Returns of Convictions at the Curragh Court House and Petty Sessions of Kildare, in Ireland, ordered by the House, will be laid upon the table of the House.
 MR. COWPER  said, he wished to answer a question that had been put in
 554
 MR. LINDSAY  said, the opinions expressed by the noble Lord on the subject of iron vessels had over and over again been urged upon the House by hon. Members below the gangway, and it would have been well for the country if they had been listened to many years ago. The noble Lord had intimated his willingness to refer the question raised by the Motion of the hon. Member for Liskeard and the Amendment of the hon. Member for West Norfolk — though, by the nay, the latter was not before the House—to the Royal Commission. He confessed he could not see the use of referring the question to that Commission, as the members of it would, no doubt, report in the same manner as they had done before. It was upon their report that he and other Members two years ago divided the House, and protested against the grant of £3,000,00 as an instalment of £12,000,000 for fortifications. The Government were perfectly competent to deal with the question themselves; but if they did refer it, let them do so to persons who had not already expressed an opinion
 618 Warrior Black Prince Monitor Merrimac
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he congratulated the Government upon the decision they had come to; but he regretted that the right hon. Baronet the Minister for War should propose to refer the question of defence to the same gentlemen who had reported on it before. He had the most unfeigned respect for the individual intelligence, ability, and zeal of the Commissioners; but he thought it would be much better to refer the question to another set of gentlemen; and if they also should come to the same opinion that the former Commission had arrived at, their recommendations would have great weight with the House of Commons. He wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for War whether, if armour-plated vessels were found serviceable for the defence of Portsmouth, it would not be well that they should supersede land fortifications in the case of some of our other great ports also. He was very much surprised to hear the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty say that line-of-battle ships were to be cut down for the purpose of taking part in the defence of Portsmouth. That was not the description of vessel proposed by the Commission. He understood that it was a small vessel, possessing a small draught of water. If they were to give up the Spithead forts, as he hoped they would, he trusted they would have
 621 Monitor, 622
 MR. SEELEY  said, that forts were being erected in the Isle of Wight, a military road was to be constructed, and land was to be purchased. He wished to know whether these works would also be suspended. It was desirable to know whether the several works at the Isle of Wight were to be suspended until the House came to a decision with respect to the forts at Spithead. The works in the Isle or Wight were mainly intended to protect the forts at Spithead, and there: were other works intended to protect the protecting works. A decision on a question involving such an amount of expenditure could not be too soon arrived at.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that the observations of his noble Friend at the head of the Government applied only to the Motion of the hon. Gentleman the member for Liskeard, which referred to the forts at Spithead. Those forts defended the roadstead and the entrance into Portsmouth harbour, and had no reference to the works in the Isle of Wight, which were intended to prevent a landing by boats or otherwise, and not to prevent the passage of armed ships. The intention of the Government was not to make any alteration or to extend any works that had been erected in the Isle of Wight.
 LORD ADOLPHUS VANE TEMPEST  said, he thought that the country would receive the statement of the noble Lord at the head of the Government with great satisfaction. It was to be regretted that the noble Lord had not been in his place on Monday night, for then the present Motion might have been rendered unnecessary. He thought the hon. Member for Liskeard ought to accept the proposal of the noble Lord, as before any further action was taken by the Government the matter must be submitted to the House. Having seen the  Merrimac, Merrimac Monitor 625 Merrimac Merrimac Merrimac Monitor.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, that he thought that the country ought to be assured that the tribunal to which the subject of this Motion was to be referred was one perfectly free from all preconceived prejudices. The Commission had reported twice; and as the pamphlet of Captain Coles had in some sense led to their second Report, and yet the Commission had not thought fit to call that gallant officer as a witness before them previous to coming to their second conclusion, it could hardly be expected that the question would be fairly examined if its investigation were now intrusted to the same Commission. It was most indecorous, under the circumstances, not to have examined Captain Coles, who, moreover, had also been refused an inspection of the Commissioners' Report, though that Report was founded on a revision of his own work. Every reform seemed to be postponed until after Easter; but when they had had their holidays, he trusted that the House would not rest till it had taken care to have this vital question sifted by a tribunal in which the country could place perfect confidence.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he was afraid it was impossible for the Government to accede to this proposal, for the simple reason that there was no part of the present loan of two millions which it would be possible to appropriate to the building of vessels. The House was doubtless aware that there was a plan, which he thought amounted to about £ 6,000,000 on the whole, and which was described by the late Secretary of War when he opened the plan of fortifications but that the Bill which he introduced, and which ultimately became an Act of Parliament, merely authorized the Government to raise a loan of £ 2,000,000 by terminable annuities, and to appropriate that sum to certain specified works which were set out in the schedule of the Act. After taking into account the sums already expended at Portsmouth, and the amount which was virtually pledged, the House would see that it was impossible that any considerable sum should remain applicable to the building of gunboats out of the money voted last year; so that if the Motion of the hon. Member was agreed to, it would be perfectly nugatory. All that the Government could offer to do was, when they proposed an additional loan for further works, to ask the House for power to appropriate a portion of such additional loan to the building of iron-cased vessels. That would, in fact, be an addition to the Navy Estimates, by way of loan, and it was a matter entirely for the consideration of the House.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the Government had substantially accepted the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman, and he only raised a difficulty upon a point of form that could not be got over. The money upon the present loan was already expended or engaged to be paid, as, if the present plans were not carried out, there would be compensation to contractors and payments for land.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT : Sir, in the year 1858 a vote was obtained from the House of a sum of £6,000 towards the completion of the Monument of Lord Nelson in Trafalgar Square. The design of the granite lions, which are indispensable to the adornment of the base, was subsequently intrusted, not to a sculptor, but to a very distinguished artist; and although nearly four years have elapsed, they have not been completed. During the present year we may expect a very large concourse of foreigners as visitors in London, and I cannot but think that the sight of the incomplete memorial to the greatest of our Admirals will be regarded as a national reproach. I remember reading in the works of one of the greatest of Roman historians (Sallust) that his nation—a nation of conquerors—in their palmiest days would say that the sight of the statues of their distinguished men wonderfully inflamed their minds to the love of virtue; that it was not the speaking brass,
 548
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT : I have to ask the Secretary of the Admiralty whether he
 545 Trusty
 MR. DENMAN  said, he rose to call attention to the condition of Poland, and to move for certain papers relating thereto. Those who might be prepossessed against the discussion of the question to which his Motion referred at that time would, he thought, if they only patiently listened to the facts which he had collected, be convinced that it was a fitting occasion for the British House of Commons to entertain it. Indeed, if he wanted any justification for the course he was about to take, it would be found in the numerous petitions from different parts of the kingdom which had been presented to the House that very day, signed by persons of all classes in society, and anxiously entreating that the subject of Poland should be brought under its notice, and that the Russian Government might be reminded of its duties and obligations towards that country. He wished to approach the question in the spirit breathed by that memorable declaration of Lord Lyndhurst, who, when speaking on the same subject some years ago, said, that it was the duty of every person placed in a position where his voice could be heard to
 555 556 557 558 entraînment; 559 560 561 562 563 Pilot 564
 MR. DENMAN  said, that as the noble Lord at the head of the Government had said he would inquire as to what papers there were, and consider as to what papers he could lay on the table, he should not press his Motion.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : To a very great extent. There will be scarcely any building of wooden vessels at all.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : My belief is that they will draw about twenty-six feet.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Sir, I should not have thought it necessary to say anything on this occasion, for I think the House is perfectly prepared to listen to the proposal of my noble Friend at the head of the Government — namely, that after the recess this subject shall be fairly and fully discussed, and that Government shall then be prepared with a proposal. My only object in rising is to call attention to a statement by my right hon. Friend the Member for Droitwich (Sir John Pakington) that the Government had altogether neglected that part of the recommendation of the Royal Commission which had reference to the floating batteries. My right hon. Friend must have forgotten that principally in consequence of the strong recommendation made by the Commission in re-
 619 Monitor or Merrimac, Monitor, monitors 620 Himalaya,
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he would be glad to give every possible information to his hon. and gallant Friend; but the fact was that the correspondence to which he referred took place in the year 1855, during the Russian war, and there was a great deal mixed up in it which it would not be advisable to make public. The cupola which was about to be built on Captain Coles plan was provisionally proposed to the Admiralty in the year 1855, and there was no essential difference in the proposal recently adopted as compared with that made in 1855. Some improvement, however, had been introduced.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he had by no means intended to convey that the Admiralty were insensible to the advantages of vessels of light draught. He might state further, that the Admiralty were preparing plans, and had under consideration plans for putting plates on vessels of a much lighter draught of water. There were vessels at present built which they thought might be converted into vessels of that class. He wished also to take that opportunity of observing that in several newspapers he had been accused of deceiving the House in a statement made by him in respect of one of Captain Coles's vessels. Instead of saying that the Admiralty were "building," he had merely said that they had "ordered" one of Captain Coles's vessels.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he could not agree with the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Monsell) that the debate had left the conviction that iron-clad ships were the only means of defending our ports and arsenals. On the contrary, the debate seemed to prove that these vessels were no defence at all for such places. It was stated that the two American ships had hammered away at each other for five or six hours without inflicting much damage. They could not be run down, for the  Merrimac Monitor, Warrior;
 MR. LAYARD  said, the hon. Gentleman had given notice of his intention to move for those papers after Easter. He could not at present say whether there was any objection to lay the Convention on the table, but he should probably be able to inform the hon. Gentleman on Monday.
 MR. LAYARD  replied, that the Government had received official information that a Convention had been signed—not between the Allied Powers and Mexico, but between the Commissioners of those Powers and the Government of the country. It was true that the British Force—if it might be called a force—might probably have been withdrawn from Mexico by the present time, with the exception of a small body of men. That force originally consisted of 600 marines, but a reference to the papers which had been laid on the table on the House, would show that it had never been the intention of the Government that those marines should take part in any expedition into the interior of the country. They would, therefore, be withdrawn, with the exception of 100, who would he left to carry on the ordinary duties at Vera Cruz and San Juan. As regarded the Convention, he might add that Her Majesty's Government had approved of it as a whole; for although they could not approve all the articles, yet they believed that the general spirit carried out the intentions of Her Majesty's Government. The Convention distinctly disclaimed all desire, on the part of Her Majesty's Government, to interfere in the internal affairs of Mexico, and encouraged a hope that the present differences would be satisfied by negotiation and pacific means, and that any hostile measures would be unnecessary. It was to be hoped that these expectations would be fulfilled, and that it would not be necessary to go to war with Mexico.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that the hon. Member had correctly enough stated the early proceedings with reference to
 553
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, that he entirely agreed with the observations which had been addressed to the House by the noble Lord at the head of the Government, and he could not but express his gratification at the conciliatory tone which had characterized the debate. It was a great advantage that nothing had been said which could justly give offence to the authorities concerned. After the House had expressed its feelings of humanity in regard to recent events in Poland, the question arose, what was the ground of quarrel between that unfortunate country and her rulers, and what was the leading object she desired. Did she complain of the non-execution of the Treaty of Vienna, or did she demand complete independence? It was only in the former of these two cases, that this House or Government would have the right to express any opinion on the subject. Did any hon. Gentleman believe that it was possible to reverse the course of events which had so extensively altered the map of Europe during the last century, and to bring back the Poland which existed before the first partition? Lord Castlereagh did his utmost on behalf of the Poles at the Congress of Vienna, but his efforts were far from obtaining the effect for which he contended. The answer of the Czar to Prince Metternich on the subject of Poland simply was, "I am in possession of the country, and have 300,000 men there; if you do not like my retaining it, come and take it from me if you can." The Treaty of Vienna had been often referred to, but its terms were very ambiguous, and contained no trace of a specific constitution for Poland. It only said that Poland should be united
 579 quasi 580
 LORD FERMOY  said, he considered that the fact of £ 2,000,000 having been spent upon the foundations of these fortifications, was quite sufficient to prove that this subject ought not to be referred again to the Defence Commission.
 MR. BEECROFT  said, that the noble Lord had admitted that iron plates on the forts 10 inches thick would not afford sufficient resistance. The Defence Commission, however, reported that the estimated cost of these forts was £840,000, and that there was no reason to believe that this sum would be exceeded. But if iron thicker than 10 inches was to be used, the£840,000 would be quite inadequate for the iron work alone.
 MR. BENTINCK : Sir, after the notice which I have ventured to put on the paper, I need hardly say that I concur with the Motion of the hon. Gentleman opposite on the subject of the forts. But when I read the notice of the hon. Gentleman, it appeared to me that it did not go far enough—that it went in the right direction, but that it stopped far short of the point; which we seek to attain. Looking on this subject, not as one of the most important, but as the most important subject that could be brought before this House at the present moment, I ventured to put on the paper the Motion which stands in my name, which is—
 "That this House will, on an early day, resolve itself into a Committee to empower the Government to apply monies voted for the construction of forts to the construction of iron-sheathed vessels, or to the conversion of wooden vessels into iron-sheathed vessels." 600 601 602 Merrimac Monitor? Merrimac Merrimac Monitor, Merrimac. 603 Merrimac, "The  Merrimac's Minnesota, "Now the 11-inch guns of the  Merrimac Monitor "This contest was the most severe test to which armour plates have ever been subjected, and it puts the final seal to the fate of all wooden ships of war. Calling upon Captain Ericsson the day after the fight to congratulate him upon the brilliant success, we found him engaged upon the drawings of a large sea-going steamer, after the plan of his battery, with the proper modifications for that class of vessel." Monitor 604 Monitor, 605
 MR. BENT1NCK  said, he only wanted to assist the Government and himself out of a difficulty. As the Government had accepted the spirit of his Amendment and only opposed him on a matter of form, he thought that the difficulty could be met by his inserting the words he had mentioned into his Resolution. As altered it would not bind the Government to spend any money which was virtually laid out already.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he would then move, as an Amendment, to add the following words: —
 "and that this House will, on an early day, resolve itself into a Committee for the purpose of empowering the Government to apply any portion
 628
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he was in this difficulty, that having understood that the Government were prepared to assent to the principle of his Resolution, he had stated his belief on that subject to many of his hon. Friends, who had, in consequence, left the House. The Amendment would go a good deal further than the Motion of the hon. Member for Liskeard, and would establish a new and distinct principle. He
 629
 MR. PEACOCKE  seconded the Motion.
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, he rose to move an Address for Copy of the Agreement
 549 550 551 552
 MR. WYLD  said, he wished to know whether hon. Members were to understand from the noble Lord (Viscount Pal-merston's) statement that £ 2,000,000 had already been expended on the fortifications.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, it was not competent for the hon. Member to move the addition at that moment.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that in rising to support the Motion, he wished to say a few words—first, as to how far England was really concerned in the Polish question; and then, as to how far that question was in truth a practical one. What hold, he would ask, had Poland upon England, and why should England mix herself up in the Polish question? The answer to that, he thought, was contained in the papers laid before Parliament at the close of the last Session. Those papers were far and away the most important that had ever been published in this country relating to Poland. He had no doubt that such hon. Gentlemen as had not read them would be surprised to learn that the important despatch communicated by Prince Talleyrand to the noble Viscount, though laid on the table in 1861, bore the date of 1831. For thirty long years a State Paper, which furnished the key to English policy with respect to Poland, had remained in the archives of the Foreign Office. The despatch submitted by Prince Talleyrand, demanding, in language not usually found in diplomatic documents, the co-operation of England on behalf of Poland, and the reply of the noble Viscount had been moved for over and over again, long before he was born; but until the close of last Session they had always been refused, on the ground, among others, that their production would tend to embroil this country with the other Powers of Europe. In 1831 the Poles were up in arms, and war was actually raging between Poland and Russia. The despatch communicated to the noble Viscount by Prince Talleyrand was written by Count Sebastiani, and dated Paris, July 7, 1831. It was as follows:—
 "The King, touched by the evils which the Polish war has already caused to two nations in which he takes so lively an interest, eager to ensure the maintenance of peace, compromised daily by so prolonged a contest, and no less engaged in preserving the West of Europe from the fearful sufferings which this war entails, has addressed himself confidentially to the Emperor of Russia in order to put an end to so many disasters, and to bring to an end blood-shedding over which humanity has only too long groaned. The King's intention was also to preserve the political existence of a people which has shown itself so worthy of it by so great courage and patriotism, and which has the guarantee of the Treaties of Vienna for its nationality. Up to the present time the King's efforts have not achieved the results which he had the right to expect. Notwithstanding their small success, His Majesty does not consider it his duty to renounce the generous and pacific mediation which his personal feelings recommend and which the condition of Europe prescribes to him. He believes, especially, that
 572 mon Prince, "Can it, then, be expedient to make a proposal which there is no ground to hope would be accepted; and which, if refused, would leave to the two Governments the embarrassing alternative of either aquiescing in a determined rejection of their proposal, or of taking measures to enforce it by means of a more direct and effectual interference? The British Government certainly is not prepared to adopt the latter course. The effects and bearing of the contest upon the security of other States have not hitherto been such as to warrant measures of such a description; nor has the conduct of Russia towards England been calculated to excite any unfriendly feeling; she has, on the contrary, performed towards this country all the offices of a good and faithful ally, and, in the late difficult negotiations for the purpose of effecting a settlement between Belgium and Holland, she has acted with perfect fairness in her co-operation with the other four Powers. Under these circumstances His Majesty, deeply lamenting the calamities of a disastrous and desolating contest, does not think the time has yet arrived when he could be justified in adopting a proceeding which, however conciliatory in form, could not fail to alarm an independent Power, naturally jealous of its rights, and sensibly alive to everything which might appear to affect its national honour. For these reasons His Majesty feels himself under the necessity of declining the proposal which the Prince de Talleyrand has been instructed to convey." 573 574 Wielikorus "All the Russians, partisans of legality, ought to demand the liberation of Poland. It is now become evident to every one that our domination in Poland is only maintained by armed force; and as long as the authority shall be maintained by the system of a military despotism in one part of the State, the Government cannot give up this system in the rest of the empire. Let us bear in mind the words which Chatham uttered at the time of the revolution of the American colonies—'Should England subdue America to despotism, she would not fail to subject herself to the same rule;' consequently, he wished, in concert with all the friends of liberty in England, the recall of the British troops from the dissatisfied colonies. In like manner the interest of Russian liberty calls for the liberation of Poland. Our national pride, our love of the country, our financial situation, demand the same. Our dominion in Poland rests solely upon violations of all the conditions by which the Congress of Vienna had consented to the union of that kingdom with Russia." 575
 MR. HENNESSY  observed, that he would congratulate the Government on their full consciousness of the extent of their failure in the Bill of last year.
 MR DILLWYN  said, he supposed that the defence of the commercial harbours would not now be proceeded with, and he would therefore suggest that the money intended for that object could be applied to the present purpose.
 MR. M. DUNNE  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If it is the intention of the Government to introduce any measure during this Session that will have for its object the alteration of the Law of Landlord and Tenant, with a view to secure to the Tenant the value of any permanent improvement he may have made in his land, if he should be dispossessed of it, or the value raised on him?
 MR. O'BRIEN  said, that he wished to give notice that after Easter he should move a Resolution setting forth the necessity for having a more effectual system of audit in reference to the accounts of Joint Stock Companies.
 MR. O'BRIEN  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether it is the intention of the Government to introduce any measure, during the present Session, for an official and effectual audit of the Accounts of Joint Stock Companies?
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Sir, if any apology were needed for reviving a discussion which has been lately—although I think very partially—before the House— it might be found in what I consider to be the overwhelming importance of the subject, not merely as regards the enormous outlay and expense involved, but also as regards our position and existence as a naval Power. I must say, and I think the House will not be disinclined to agree with me, that the answers which proceeded from the Treasury bench upon the late occasion were eminently unsatisfactory. What was the reply made by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for War? The right hon. Gentleman said he could hold out no hope that the construction of the proposed forts at Spithead, for which contracts had been entered into, would be abandoned. In presuming to bring this question before the House, I do not ask that the works should be at once abandoned. My Motion goes only to suspend the construction of the proposed forts until the value of iron-roofed gunboats for the defence of our ports and roadsteads has been fully considered. I think the House will agree that this is no excessive demand to be made upon Her Majesty's Government under the peculiar circumstances of the case. But, before coming to the more immediate question, I think it right that I should take a rapid and brief review of the history of this question of national defences. I find that the question of national defences first came
 581 "That to secure the Royal dockyards and arsenals, and the ports of Dover and Portland, and for the creation in some central point of an inland arsenal, to serve as a substitute for and assistance to Woolwich—" 582 583 "That in the absence of sufficient engineering and artillery information, it is not expedient to incur any extraordinary expenditure on permanent works." "At present we know little of the way of making them invulnerable by iron coating, and all the works we propose will be of a lasting and permanent character." "The forts now designed for erection on the shoals at Spithead will be of peculiarly formidable description, and essentially different from any works that have been hitherto built. They will each be constructed for 120 guns, in four tiers, of iron 10 inches in thickness from low-water mark, unless it is found expedient to carry the foundations of solid granite up to high-water mark, They will be armed with ordnance of the heaviest description and of the greatest penetrating power, provided also with mortars for vertical fire. They will thus be individually in every respect invulnerable to any species of projectile, and impregnable by any force of ships that can be brought against them or by any conceivable mode of assault." 584 "We are, however, convinced that no practical amount of fire from batteries can be depended upon to stop the passage of steam-ships, if the Channel be sufficiently clear to allow of their proceeding at great speed." "It appears to me important to suggest for the consideration of the Defence Committee, the expediency of modifying to a certain extent, and before it be too late, the recommendations of the Committee in so far as they relate to the construction of some of the most costly batteries; and I would suggest the possible substitution of iron-cased ships in certain localities for such of the permanent defences as can be constructed only at large cost, and cannot, in all probability, be completed for a long period of time." "I consider that much importance attaches to recent experience of the nature of iron-cased ships, not only as exemplified in the French ship  La Gloire, "I entertain no doubt whatever that it will be practicable, at a cost of about £60,000 for each ship, to convert ships of the line which are now available into iron-cased ships, with steam power capable of propelling them at a speed of from seven to eight knots, and with an armament of 30 guns of the heaviest and most improved description on batteries at a height of about six feet above water." 585 "Any immediate outlay of money to be expended in the course of the ensuing financial year would be more profitably employed upon the equipment for purely defensive purposes of ships of this description; and it might be proper that the attention of the Secretary of State for War should be called to the subject, in order that reports, if necessary, from the Controller of the Navy may be called for without loss of time." 586 Windsor Castle, Navy List 587 Merrimac, Virginia, Merrimac Merrimac Cumberland Cumberland Merrimac Monitor Minnesota 588 Merrimac Merrimac Monitor Monitor, Trusty, 589 Warrior, 590 "As to the argument that forts are less costly than ships because more durable, the answer is obvious. The value of an engine of war is measured by its efficiency; and if forts will neither stop iron vessels from entering a harbour, nor prevent them from bombarding the dockyards, forts are extravagantly dear at any price. One iron ship may stop, at least, one other, while she engages her muzzle to muzzle, runs her down, or boards her but no fort will stop an iron vessel." 591 "Full discussion of this matter would require more space than can here be devoted to it; and should my life be spared I will, on a future occasion, enter more extensively into this and other cognate subjects. Were I now to do so, I am afraid public faith in some of its newly-cherished fortifications would be materially shaken, and will therefore refrain from so doing, in the hopes that improvements in our navy, the only true basis of national safety, will render such remarks unnecessary. In short, immovable stations of defence, as a protection against invasion, are not only costly and of doubtful utility, but a reliance on them is, in my mind, an indication of a declining state. It is little short of national imbecility to suppose that, because we erect imposing fortifications an enemy will come to them, when he can operate elsewhere without the slightest regard to them; and the more so, as the common experience of warfare will tell him, that numerous fortifications are in the highest degree national weakness, by splitting into detail the army which ought to be in the field against him, but who are compelled to remain and take care of their fortifications. Yet half the sum required for fortifications as defences in case of war would suffice to place the navy in a condition of affording far more effectual protection. There is no security equal to that which may be obtained by putting it out
 592
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  explained, that what he and the right hon. Member for Limerick had stated was that the Arm-
 627
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he wished to correct a remark made by his hon. Friend opposite (Mr. Hennessy), which, if allowed to pass unnoticed, might lead to a wrong interpretation of a very important point in the diplomatic history of this country. His hon. Friend would induce the House to believe that it was owing to the action of the British Government that the great Revolt of Poland, which followed the days of July, had not come to a successful termination. But if his hon. Friend would look back to the history of that period, he would find there were many circumstances which ought to have made the English Government unwilling to make any demonstration against Russia at a time when any hostile proceedings might have assumed the dimensions of a European war. There was at that time a change of dynasty in France, and the French Government were anxious to preserve their popularity with the people of that country. It was quite true that there was no question which touched the imagination of the French people so much as the question of Poland. If, however, the Government of France had offered the active interposition of that country in behalf of Poland, the result must have been a European war. He could not concur in the opinion that the great Powers of Germany would have acceded to the independence of Poland at that time, and the result would probably have been that France and England would have taken one side, and Germany and Russia the other, the issue of the conflict being that France might have got the Rhine, and Poland would have been left in the lurch. All such speculations, however, were useless. All that could be said was that Poland had preserved that permanent interest in the European mind which, so far as it was permitted to look into futurity, led to the belief that there must come, at some time or other, a solution of the question favourable to the liberties of Poland. Russia, it might be seen, was undergoing a great transformation. Not only did the liberation of the serfs agitate that country in all its territory, but questions of political freedom were slowly making their way. The very fact that such sentiments as had been quoted by the hon. Gentleman were printed at St. Petersburg was a singular
 577 578
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that it was considered that the present system of audit, in reference to the accounts of Joint Stock Companies, was both official and effective, because one-fifth of the number and value of Joint Stock Companies could require an audit to take place by order of the Board of Trade, and the accounts so obtained were available to the shareholders It was not the intention of the Government, therefore, to introduce any measure for the more effectual audit of the accounts of Joint Stock Companies. The Returns asked for by the hon. Member (Mr. Scully) were in progress, and they were only waiting for the answers of some of the owners to be sent in.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he would also beg to ask the President of the Board of Trade, When he expects that the Returns as to Transatlantic Steamers ordered on the 25th of February and the 3rd of March last, will be laid before this House?
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, that the proposition was virtually one that the National Debt should be increased for naval purposes. He thought that in the then state of the House such a proposition ought not to be decided.
 MR. MONSELL  said, that both his hon. Friend (Mr. B. Osborne) and himself strongly objected to refer the question back again to the Defence Commissioners, who, with Captain Coles's pamphlet and the evidence of naval officers before them, distinctly stating that these forts would in no way impede the entrance of iron-plated vessels, had nevertheless decided upon recommending their construction. The matter ought rather to have been referred to some tribunal which had not committed itself, Granting that these forts were armed in the best manner, and manned by the most expert artillerymen, did any one imagine that either the  Merrimac Monitor Trusty,
 MR. FRANK CROSSLEY  said, he was delighted to find that the Government had fallen in with the views of the hon. Member for Liskeard; but he thought the money voted for the navy ought to be sufficient for the construction of many  Monitors.
 MR. FRANK CROSSLEY  said, he thought the Amendment would entail an addition to the National Debt for the construction of iron cased ships, and he should oppose it.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, that the speeches of the noble Viscount and the two hon. Members were so satisfactory to the friends of Poland, that he should not have uttered a word did he not think that sufficient justice had not been done to the Poles for their remarkable forbearance, under the very exasperating circumstances in which they had been placed, the self-control, moderation and wise abstinence from. provocation they had shown entitled them, not only to look for the sympathy of Europe, but to expect that at no distant time their anticipations would be fulfilled. It was not merely among the Poles in their own country, but also among those who resided in foreign countries, that the opinion prevailed that it would be for the advantage of Poland, and would tend to diminish the sufferings under which she laboured, to put before the public a calm and unexaggerated statement of her position and of the feelings of the English people in consequence. It had been well remarked that they ought not to allow any interference with the Treaty of Vienna without noticing it in that House. It was for the interest of England, and of the whole of Europe, that the Treaty of Vienna should be abided by. Whenever an attempt to infringe that treaty was made, they appealed to it; and when, in the words of the noble Lord, "the most flagrant Violation of any treaty in modern days" took place, it was incumbent on them to give expression to the feelings of horror and detestation which they entertained at the state of things existing in Poland, which obliged 200,000 Russian soldiers to be kept there. He denied that there was any conspiracy in Poland which could be legally dealt with, and he maintained that it was of the utmost importance, not only to Austria, but to the whole of Germany, that a barrier should be raised up between them and Russia. According to treaty, the kingdom of Poland was to be garrisoned by Polish soldiers, and Russian soldiers were not to be admitted. But treaty engagements had been violated, and therefore not only had they a right to speak, but they lay under a responsibility to do so. At the same time, it would be cruel to the Poles themselves, if they were to hold out to them the hope that there was in this country any party who would desire to plunge the nation into a war for the purpose of effecting the liberation of Poland. Such was not the case. The best policy the Poles could
 576
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, that as the hon. Member for Liskeard had thrown some doubts on the possibility of ships getting into Portsmouth harbour, it was desirable that that point should be placed on a proper footing. He had obtained from the Tide Gauge Office of Her Majesty's Dockyard a statement of the tides at Portsmouth for the first three months of the present year, and he should move on a very early day that that document should be laid upon the table. It would show that out of 180 tides in those three months there were only forty-three in which the  Warrior, 626
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he thought the answer of the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty to one of the questions of his right hon. Friend the Member for Droitwich very unsatisfactory. The Defence Commission had recommended that we should have a fleet of vessels drawing not more than sixteen feet of water. Neither that recommendation, nor what seemed to be the desire of the House would be carried out by the conversion of large wooden ships into iron vessels, Which would not be capable of following vessels like the  Monitor
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he wished to prevent an erroneous impression from going forth owing to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Liskeard and the right hon. Member for Limerick with regard to the Armstrong gun. The former hon. Gentleman had made a comparison between the old Brown Bess and the Enfield rifle. He could assure the hon. Member that the Armstrong gun was as great an improvement on the smooth-bore 68-pounder as the Enfield rifle was upon the old Brown Bess. Exceptional circumstances had occasionally caused some failures, which had been much magnified. The particular circumstance which occurred on board the  Trusty
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he wished to ask what draught of water would those line-of-battle ships draw when cut down?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, I am sure we have all heard the speech of the noble Lord with the greatest possible pleasure; and after the announcement which the noble Lord had made, it will not be necessary for me to detain the House for more than a few minutes. I entirely agree with the noble Lord that it is quite impossible to exaggerate the importance of this question. I believe the noble Lord has only
 615 616 Magenta Solferino 617
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that the hon. and gallant Gentleman appeared to overlook the fact that the Returns which he applied for were presented on the 28th ultimo and ordered to be printed.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, the Irish Government were fully alive to the great importance of the subject as well as to the difficulties which surrounded it. Both private Members and the Ministers of the day had tried their hands at it, and had failed. In 1852, for example, the Earl of Derby's Government brought forward a Bill, which was referred to a Select Committee, and there ended. The Government did not intend to introduce any Bill bearing upon the subject in the present Session. The encouragement of industry was a matter of vital importance to Ireland, but he was disinclined to see any measure introduced which would affect the rights of landlords in relation to their tenants. It was not a question to be settled by political agitation, but by the ordinary course of events.
 SIR MORTON PETO : * 593 Evidence, Q,. 84. "If casemated works of three tiers of guns are placed on the Horse-shoe and Noman's Land, will the anchorage at Spit-head be secure?—Most assuredly not. The forts will be 2,000 yards apart, and, however strong, could certainly be passed by wooden ships at night and by iron-cased ships by day or night." Q. 87. "Have you had any experience of ships running past forts?—Yes; I have formed; this opinion from what I saw first, on a small scale, in the  Parana Q. 98. "Have you ever heard of any one instance of a ship being sunk by a fort either when attacking or running past?—I do not know of one." Q. 102. "The conclusion I draw from your; evidence is that no amount of direct fire will stop even wooden ships which are determined to pass batteries?—I would not say even wooden ships, because in a very narrow channel, and with very heavy batteries, they might disable a single ship;
 594 Evidence, Q. 3. "The proposed forts at Horseshoe Buoy and Noman's Land will not, in my opinion, be sufficient to prevent the approach of an enemy in force." "Taking into account all the expense and all the difficulty which must necessarily attend the construction of batteries upon the shoals at Spithead; and looking also to the contingency that stationary batteries alone might not be sufficient to prevent the passage of iron clad ships, and would imperfectly defend the entrances to Spithead, against ships so protected, I am of opinion that any immediate outlay of money would be more profitably employed upon the equipment, for purely defensive purposes, of ships of this description."— Letter to Major Jervois, dated 8th Feb., 1861. Evidence, Q, 251. "Do you consider that forts of any size or description would: prevent the passage of iron-plated ships through a clear channel?—Most certainly not." "We are convinced that no practicable amount of fire from batteries can be depended upon to stop the passage of steam-ships, if the channel is sufficiently clear to allow of their proceeding at great speed." Monitor 595 Merrimac, Monitor "He should like to know, if they left the defence of Spithead entirely to ships, how were they to find refuge for those thousands of merchantmen, who were continually running up and down the Channel, and which, in any emergency, would make for the best of all the Channel harbours?" "It should be borne in mind that in all former wars Spithead has been a perfectly secure rendezvous, for the fleet convoys of 100 merchant vessels at a time have been assembled there." 596 "I defy you to construct a ship covered with iron-coating of sufficient thickness to repel the heavy shots which may now be sent from cannon, and yet be buoyant enough to float on the water." Donegal, "The  Donegal 597 
 
 "Spithead Forts £ 1,100,000 
 Needles 150,000 
 Isle of Wight 130,000 
 Portsdown Hill 650,000 
 Gosport and Gosport advance 370,000 
 Total £2,400,000"
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he begged leave to ask whether it was the intention of the Government to discontinue the building of wooden vessels altogether.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, it was for the purposes of his Motion that he was anxious to have the papers.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, he would beg to ask, Whether the Government have received official information relative to the Convention said to have been entered into at Soledad between the Allied Powers and the Government of Mexico; whether the British Force has been, or is about to be, withdrawn from the territories of the Republic; and whether instructions have been sent out to the British Minister approving the terms of the Convention?
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  asked, whether papers on the subject would be laid on the table immediately?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, what I stated was that it is the intention, and it must be the intention, of Her Majesty's Government to bring the matter before Parliament early after Easter, because a further issue of Terminable Annuities may be necessary and can only be done by Parliament. I never said that the House would be bound by the Report of the Commissioners, but that the matter would be
 624
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The subject which has been brought under the consideration of the House by my hon. Friend behind me, and the hon. Gentleman opposite is one the importance of which it is difficult to exaggerate, because it involves nothing less than some of the dearest and most vital interests of our common country. Therefore I trust it is unnecessary for me to say that I accept cordially and frankly the assurances which have been given by those who have made this Motion, and supported it, that they do so in no party spirit; that they do not propose this as a party question; that they do not seek to obtain any momentary party triumph; but that they are actuated by a sincere and patriotic desire that that course should be pursued which is most conducive rapidly and efficiently to provide for the defences which are requisite for the interests of the country. I can assure the House on the part of the Government that we go into the consideration of this subject upon precisely the same principles. We should be ashamed of ourselves if we were to be led by previous opinions, or if, by a desire to adhere strictly to plans and opinions which at a former period have been entertained, we were to shut our eyes and to close our ears against facts and reasonings which are entitled to mature reflection, and which may alter previous opinions or confirm them. Those facts and reasonings deserve, and not only deserve, but require,
 606 607 Monitor Merrimac 608 Warrior. Black Prince Achilles, 609 610 611 612 613 Warrior, Warrior Achilles 614 Merrimac Cumberland Congress, Congress,
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I wish, in the first place, to set my hon. and learned Friend right upon on historical point, as to which he has, I think, been misinformed. My hon. and learned Friend stated that the engagement contracted with Russia, with regard to the Russo-Dutch loan, had reference to the Treaty of Vienna generally, and specifically to the state of Poland. The condition of the Russo-Dutch loan was this—that Great Britain engaged to pay that interest so long as Belgium remained united to Holland. And when, by the action of a conference, Belgium separated from Holland we might, according to the strict letter of the treaty, have refused to continue to pay the interest. But Her Majesty's Government thought—and Parliament, after an animated discussion, which those who were in the House at the time must remember, agreed—that, as the separation of Belgium from Holland was brought about in a great
 565 566 567 568 569 570
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I meant to say that the £ 2,000,000 had been expended, or were due, for the purchase of lands or for works in progress under the provisions of the Act of 1860.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the Motion was only that the House, at a future day, would resolve itself into a Committee on the subject before the House. When the Motion was made for going into such Committee, after Easter —and the subject must be reconsidered after Easter—and when the Government should propose means for carrying out the work, the hon. Member for Norfolk could propose the application of a portion of the money for the object he had in view.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, it was his intention to introduce a Bill upon the subject very shortly after the Easter recess.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he did not propose to move the second reading of the Scotch Education Bill on Friday next. His intention was to fix a day as soon as possible after Easter.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) had not been very consistent in the attack which he had made upon the Chancellor of the Exchequer for in none of the Motions which they had made in favour of economy had hon. Members below the gangway ever received much support either from the right hon. Gentleman or from the party he led. When it was represented that France was building a great number of ships, and had, views of invading this country, no one stirred up the flame so much as hon. Gentlemen opposite; and the Government was too often goaded on to expenditure by the leaders of the party on the Opposition benches. He confessed, too, that under the circumstances of the case, and the pressure brought upon him by both sides of the House, he did not see how the Chancellor of the Exchequer was answerable for the public expenditure. The noble Lord the Secretary of the Admiralty came down to the House and asked for £12.000,000 for the navy, and the House at once granted the money. Positively the whole £11,400,000 had this year been voted in four hours—£5,000,000 of it in five minutes. Then, again, the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for War came and asked for £15,000,000 for the army, and the House ran through the whole of those immense Estimates in two or three nights. It seemed to him (Mr. Lindsay) that under these circumstances the Chancellor of the Exchequer had nothing to do but to pay the bill, and that the blame, to a great extent, rested neither with the right hon. Gentleman nor with the Government. There was one point, however, with respect to which he thought the Government censurable. It had been known for some years that iron ships exceeded wooden ships in power. Reports had been sent to the Admiralty to that effect, and there was evidence showing that since 1856 the French Government had
 678
 MR. COWPER  moved the second reading of this Bill.
 MR. COWPER  said, he was so far from thinking that the subject was uninteresting to the House that he believed it concerned every inhabitant of the metropolis, in whatever part of it he might reside. Every tine who was in the habit of passing through the centre of London must feel the urgent necessity for the great thorough fare which it was proposed to construct. He had been much surprised at the Amendment which had been moved. He could not consent to give the return for which the hon. Member moved on Friday night: but as the hon. Gentleman had amended the form of his Motion, he should be glad to give him the information for which he Sought. Without waiting for the formal production of the document, he might state the substance of it in a few words. The estimated expenditure for carrying into effect the provisions of the Thames Embankment Bill was£1,500.000. The amount was made up in the following manner:—£500,000 for the works, embankment, roadway, and new Streets opening on to the embankment; £500,000 for Compensation to wharfingers, persons having frontage on the river, and others; and the remaining £500,000 of the estimate
 702 703 704
 MR. COWPER  said, that if the Amendment were carried, it would make a great change in the practice which had hitherto prevailed. The Bill was promoted with a view to the public interest, but affected private property. The invariable course was to combine the gentlemen named by the Committee of Selection, who would endeavour to find, persons most impartial and least connected with; the subject, with gentlemen who were supposed to have some public connection with the project. That practice, he believed, had hitherto worked well, and he was sure the gentlemen forming the Committee would feel it to be their duty to attend, even though not named by the Committee of Selection.
 MR. PEEL  moved that the House resolve itself into Committee on this subject.
 MR. PEEL  opposed the Amendment on the ground that the Crown had exercised right of property in the land in question from the time of Henry VIII.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, he rose to move an Amendment. The matter was one of great importance; public interests were involved to a large extent, and there was also an enormous amount of private interests at stake. He was satisfied that those whose private interests were largely concerned in the scheme would not be content if the question were referred to a Committee of shifting or uncertain character. He therefore proposed to add to the Motion that the Bill be referred to a Select Committee the following words:—" Such Committee to be chosen by the Committee of Selection, and whose attendance shall be subject to the same regulations as attendance on a private Bill." His object was that five impartial members should be selected to give their attention to this important subject, and that those only should vote who heard the evidence.
 GENERAL UPTON  said, he wished to ask the Lord Advocate, If he will fix any time for laying on the table of the House the Bill he is about to introduce relating to the Removal of Irish Poor from Scotland to Ireland?
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he wished to ask a question with regard, to the collection of the income tax. The collectors had sent round a paper, dated the 20th of March, stating that the tax was due, and requiring that it should be paid immediately. He presumed that they would be liable to the, penalties for obtaining money under false pretences if they were not justified in the assertions made in their circular. The 20th of March was a strange date for the tax to become due on.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he could assure the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down that it was perfectly possible to impugn the conduct of the Chancellor of the Exchequer without desiring to bring down the expenditure upon national defence to a point lower than it then stood; and certainly he had not understood the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire to express himself in any other sense. He know not whether the Chancellor of the Exchequer would accept in his defence the
 679 d 680 681 682 d d d 683 d d 684
 MR. AYRTON  said, he was not one of those who thought it was the duty of hon. Members to vote for every remission of taxation which might be proposed, and then leave to the Chancellor of the Exchequer the odium of maintaining taxes upon the people. If there was one duty more than another incumbent upon those who sat on the ministerial side of the House, it was that of sharing frankly in the grave responsibility of imposing taxes upon the country. He had been much pressed to vote for the repeal of the duty upon hops; but he had always answered, that although he thought the hop duty one of the most inconvenient that could be suggested, yet
 675 s s minimum s s d s s minimum 676 s d d
 MR. AYRTON  said, the Resolution as it stood was not very clear, for its language would impose a stamp duty on every security issued by a foreign Government which might be brought into this country and sold by one person to another. It would be necessary, therefore, to alter it so as to confine it—which, he believed, was the right hon. Gentleman's real intention—to loans raised in this country, or to debentures which bore on the face of them that the interest was to be paid in this country. Then, if foreign Governments chose to come to the English market to raise money for their purposes, they were bound to submit to any conditions that the law of this country imposed.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that having been Chairman of the Committee winch had last session reported that the Thames Embankment was the first public improvement which ought to be carried out at the expense of the metropolis, he could not fairly be supposed to be averse to the great work. Heat the fame time; felt, with his hon. Friend the Member for Westminster, that the inhabitants of the metropolis ought, before the House proceeded further with the Bill under discussion, to know what the real nature of the scheme was which it was meant to curry into effect. When, a few evenings before, his hon. Friend and a-ked for information on the subject, the Government had counted out the House in point of fact by their own action. Now, it was not, he contended, fair to the ratepayers that their interests should be so dealt with; and he, for one, thought they were clearly entitled to have that authentic statement with respect to the Bill for which they sought. The scheme was not a new one. It had been propounded so long before as twenty-two years, and had been examined into by one of the most distinguished Commissions which had ever: been issued by the Crown—a Commission which numbered the Duke of New castle, Lord Lyttelton, Sir Robert Inglis, Sir R. Smirke, and Sir Charles Barry among its Members. The city of London, moreover, in its corporate capacity, had examined the scheme for the extension to the Mansion-house, which also was by no means a new scheme; and each came to the conclusion that to make a street extending thus far would be so costly and of so little utility as compared with the cost, that they did not think it expedient to approve it. The surveyor of the corporation (Mr. Bunning) when asked at what he would estimate the cost of such an extension, stated that he could not undertake to put it at less than £1,000,000, and he should defy the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Works to show that his Bill was founded on any authentic estimate of the necessary expenditure. The object, then, with those who asked for the delay was, to secure authentic information on the subject, and to enable those who were most interested in it to forma correct opinion with respect to it. He had no wish—far from it—toprevent the embankment of the Thames; but as representing a constituency which would con-
 706
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  observer, that this was the first time that a matter of this kind had been brought before the House in consequence of the adoption of a standing order requiring the Chairman of Committees, whenever it was proposed to apply public money in furtherance of the objects of a private Bill, to draw attention to the subject.
 MR. DISRAELI : The figures convey an argument strong enough without any reason being added to them. Now, in this year there is an avowed deficiency of £1,164,000. And it is obvious, if we deduct the sum of £865,000 from this £1,164,000, instead of a deficiency of the sum I have just stated, there would be a deficiency in round numbers, on the year just closed of £300,000. But what would have been our position if the paper duty had not been repealed, as regards the surplus on the present year? In the financial year which has just commenced there will be a total loss under the head of the paper duty of £1,300,000, and if we add to this in our present position the trifling,
 640 641 642 643 644 645 646 647 648 649 650 651 652 653 654 655
 MR. DISRAELI : * 638 639
 MR. BALL  said, he should not have ventured to trespass on the attention of the House had it not been for the observations of the hon. Member for Sunderland, who taunted the Opposition with having supported the Navy Estimates of the Government. He (Mr. Ball) did not consider that his side of the House were deserving of any reproach because they had not endeavoured to cut down what the Government asked for for the naval deportment. He thought that the whole property of the country could not be considered secure unless they had a powerful and an efficient navy; and, therefore, that the last thing which islanders ought to do was to diminish or weaken the strength of their navy. The money raised by taxation to maintain an efficient navy was a sort of premium paid for securing the property of the whole country. Instead, then, of opposing the requirements of the Government for that purpose, the party with which he (Mr. Ball) was connected was more disposed to facilitate and encourage the action of the Government when directed towards the object of improving the efficiency of the navy. He suggested to the Chancellor of the Exchequer to reconsider the propriety of withdrawing the 12 s d s d s d 685
 MR. BENTINCK  said, that he should not have risen if it had not been for a remark made by the right hon. Gentleman, the substance of which had been conveyed to him by an hon. Friend. The right hon. Gentleman referred to him as having last year denied the existence of the surplus, and as having at the same time voted for the repeal of duties, and which was characterized as an act of inconsistency. He was bound to say, without any intended discourtesy, that it was the habit of the right hon. Gentleman when he had a bad case to defend to attempt to mystify the House upon the subject in a manner which was not justifiable. There was no affinity between the proposal to repeal a tax and the proposal to reduce a tax, and the right hon. Gentleman must be perfectly wellaware of that. What passed last year was this. He (Mr. Bentinck) doubted the existence of the surplus announced by the right hon. Gentleman in his financial statement; but his argument was, that if they were to act upon the assumption of the existence of that surplus, in that case the more prudent and the safer course, and that which would be most beneficial to the country at large, would be to reduce taxation upon one of the necessaries of life—a tax which would be reimposed if necessary—rather than to repeal a tax the reimposition of which would be next to impossible That being so, he contended that the charge of inconsistency fell to the ground. Passing from the speech of the right hon. Gentleman to his financial proposals they were open to many objections. In the first place it struck him as singular that there should be a proposal to reduce the duty upon playing cards, and it appeared to him that there was no sufficient reason to justify that proposal. It would almost seem that the right hon. Gentleman had an inclination—he might almost say a wish—to promote every system of gambling. Last year he repealed Sir John Barnard's Act, to facilitate the worst system of gambling
 670
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he had understood the right hon. Gentleman to say distinctly that his financial measures had been for a long time impeded by the obstinacy, folly, and prejudice of others; and his impression was fully supported by the report of what took place upon that occasion. He need only remind the right hon. Gentleman that for a long series of years he had been subject to similar feelings of obstinacy, prejudice, and folly, and he would ask him whether that portion of his public career to which he looked back with the greatest satisfaction was the time when he abandoned those opinions. He was not prepared to say whether the long dissertation on the Chinese War had been acceptable to the noble Lord at the head of the Government, but the House must have been struck with the great inconvenience of what were called Coalition Governments, and the disadvantage of having assembled on the Treasury benches a number of distinguished men who were diametrically
 671 672 versus 673
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether the adjournment for the holydays is to take place on Friday or Monday next?
 MR. POTTS  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether it is the intention of the Government to propose a Vote for a National Memorial to the memory of his Royal Highness the late Prince Consort?
 MR. LOCKE  said, it had been left unexplained why a different plan was to be carried out with respect to that plan of the river between the east end of the Temple Gardens and Blackfriars Bridge and the other portions. He differed from the hon. Baronet the Member for Westminster, and thought that a solid embankment was very much preferable, and regretted that the Government had not decided upon such an embankment throughout, for by the proposal of open arches under viaducts they would never get rid of the mud-banks by the side of the Thames. Down to the east end of the Temple Gardens the solid embankment had been adopted; but from that point to Blackfriars Bridge they were to have a viaduct upon arches, through which there was to be a communication with the wharves behind. He could not understand why one plan should be adopted for Westminster, and another for the city of London. The viaduct from the Temple Gardens to Blackfriars Bridge would lead to an accumulation of filth, and necessitate a difference in the level of the roadway; and as the accent would commence in front of the Temple Gardens, the appearance of those grounds would be very much impaired. He believed the object was to accommodate the City Gasworks, which were certainly not an ornament to the metropolis; and he trusted, that when the Bill came to be considered in Committee, care would be taken to have a uniform plan adopted from Westminster to Blackfriars. One part of the scheme was the formation of a new street from Blackfriars Bridge to Cannon Street and thence to the Mansion-house. Now, the city of London had already commenced a street from Cannon Street to Blackfriars Bridge, and he saw no reason why the corporation should not be asked to complete it out of the proceeds of the 4 d
 MR. J. TOLLEMACHE  said, he rose to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether the attention of Government has been called to the importance of obtaining permission for the transit of Salt through the territory of the Zollverein, with bond
 637
 MR. VANCE  said, he rose to represent a case of injustice in the proposed mode of carrying out the repeal of the hop duty. The matter had been represented to him by a brewer who in the city he represented was as well known as the hon. Member for Derby (Mr. Bass) was in London. He meant Mr. Guinness. The point complained of was that the brewers would not, in the scheme proposed, get the drawback unless they exported their stock of hops On hand. Whenever the malt duty had been increased or diminished, it had been customary to take an account of the stock on hand of malt, and charge the brewer with what he had in the event of an increase of duty, or allow him the drawback if the duty was diminished Another question which he wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer was whether he intended to extend these private licences to brewing in Ireland; if so, he could assure the right hon. Gentleman that it would prove a complete dead letter as regarded that country. He wished to take that opportunity of congratulating the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the success of the French treaty.
 677
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he was in favour of compulsory attendance. It was, he thought, desirable that the same practice should prevail with respect to private and public Bills, and that no member of a Committee should be allowed to vote who had not heard the entire of the evidence.
 MR. BASS  said, he was anxious to have from the Chancellor of the Exchequer some explanation of that additional taxation which he proposed to impose on all parties who for the future might have anything to do with brewing, whether as common brewers or otherwise. He certainly was rather surprised to find that the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman should nave met the other night with such an amount of concurrence, and more particularly was he surprised at the support given to it by the hon. Member for Maidstone (Mr. Buxton), who was one of a firm from whom it would have the effect of extracting a capitation tax of £6,000. He could only attribute the hon. Gentleman's support partly to his hereditary generosity and benevolence, and partly to the character of the constituency which he represented. If he had consulted any of the practical persons belonging to the great business with which he was connected, he would hardly have gone so far. He was equally surprised, too, at the concurrence which the proposal appeared to have obtained from the Members for the agricultural constituencies. The hon. Members for Norfolk, Suffolk, and other barley-growing counties could surely not have considered-how their constituents would regard an increase of 14½d. per quarter on barley. He had had that day a statement put into his hands, by an eminent brewing firm, of the practical result which this plan would have on their affairs. Since the 1st of October last they had brewed 305,000 barrels of beer. On this they had either paid, or had made themselves liable to pay, to the Chancellor of the Exchequer £105,000 but in addition to that the right hon. Gentleman proposed to make them pay £3,877, for licences for the privilege of carrying on their business. Though they had already paid the tax in the shape of hop duty—for they did brew from hops—the Resolution declared that they should pay over again in the shape of a duty of three pence per
 656 s 657 s d s
 MR. LOWE : Sir, I have no doubt I shall be able to lay on the table the provisions in question before Easter. I hope to produce them in time to have them printed and distributed among hon. Members before the recess.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  replied, that the attention of the Board of Trade had been called to the question of the transit of Salt through the territories of the Zollverein. He had recently communicated on the subject with his noble Friend at the head of the Foreign Office, and it seemed desirable that inquiries should be made with the view of seeing whether some relaxation should not take place of those regulations which now stood in the way of the transit of Salt through the territories of the Zollverein. The subject would be carefully examined by the Government, and communications would be made with the authorities abroad who would have to deal with the question.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I stated also the reason of that increase.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, in such remarks as I shall have to make to the House, I have to deal with two speeches of a very different character, as to the degree of excitement which they are calculated to produce. The speech of ray hon. Friend, who kindly intimated to me beforehand the remarks he was about to make, would, I knew, be the speech of a practical man, fully entitled to the attention of the House and of the Government upon the question with which we are dealing; and as a mark of respect to him I did not rise to address the House immediately after the right hon. Gentleman sat down. With respect to what has fallen from my hon. Friend, I have only to offer a few statements of detail. In the first place, I wish to refer to the sentiments evidently excited in the Committee on Thursday with respect to the best mode of imposing licences on private brewing. I think it was generally felt that it would be unjust to exact from the brewer for sale a certain commuted payment in respect of the hops used, and to leave the private brewer to go scot-free, particularly as private brewers are persons of the greatest means in the country, and likewise because their admirable liquor is copiously and abundantly supplied. Another feeling in the House was that above all things we should avoid introducing into private dwellings the visits of the exciseman. I intend to extend the exemption further—to all manufacturing premises. It was with these views that the Government projected a uniform licence upon private dwellings. But I am bound to say that information, obtained since last Thursday, of a character which we were not able to obtain before the financial statement was made, shows a
 658 minimum s s s s s 659 660 661 662 663 Hansard Dolus latet in generalibus 664 665 Cries of Oh! oh! 666 667 668 669
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I never applied those words to this House.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he wished to say a few words in explanation. The hon. Gentleman had stated that on a former night he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had used the terms, "obstinacy, folly, and prejudice" in reference to Gentlemen in that House; but the truth was, that when using the words he was not at all referring to proceedings in that House. What he said was that the French treaty had done much towards making commercial intercourse what it ought to be, and different from what the obstinacy, folly, and prejudice of men would have made it. He repeated that he did not at all refer to what had taken place in that House
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had to propose the following Resolutions:—
 "2. That, towards making good the Supply granted to Her Majesty, the Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury be authorized to raise any sum of money not exceeding £1,000,000 sterling, by the issue of Exchequer Bonds. "3. That the Principal of all Exchequer Bonds which may be so issued shall be paid off at par, at the expiration of any period not exceeding six years from the date of such Bonds. "4. That the Interest of such Exchequer Bonds shall be payable half-yearly, and shall be charged upon and issued out of the Consolidated Fund of the United Kingdom, or the growing produce thereof."
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that as far as regarded the working of the new system, be did not think a single bill had been paid into the revenue. Such payment could only happen when those bills were not at a premium, and they had been steadily at a premium.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would then propose the following Resolution:—
 "5. That, towards raising the Supply granted to Her Majesty, the several Rates and Duties granted to Her Majesty by the Act of the last Session of Parliament, chap. 20, for one year, commencing on the 6th day of April, 1861, for and in respect of all Property, Profits, and Gains mentioned or described as chargeable in the Act passed in the 16th and 17th years of Her Majesty's reign, chap. 34, for granting to Her Majesty Duties on Profits arising from Property, Professions, Trade's, and Offices, shall be granted and continued, and shall be charged, raised, levied, collected, and paid unto and for the use of Her Majesty, Her heirs and successors, from and after the 5th day of April, 1862, for the term of one year thence next ensuing."
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would suggest that really the only question which the Committee was called upon to deal with at that moment was the question whether in its general principle the Resolution was equitable; and upon that matter he did not think there was any difference of opinion. He thought the hon. Gentleman was quite right in paying strict attention to the exact scope of the Resolution, but he would recommend that he should postpone his remarks till he saw the precise terms of the Bill and the exact regulations for stamping when they were before the House.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not know how it was that the quarter fell due on the 20th of March, but he had no doubt that the date stated in the collectors' paper was the correct one. He supposed that in strictness the tax was due on that day; but no instructions had been given by the Government for the collection of the quarter due on the 20th of March before the 1st of April. The proceedings of the collectors were not, however, taken by the direction of the Government, and the Government had no way of interfering with them, except when they were brought under their notice in a particular case. agreed to "6. That towards raising the Supply granted to Her Majesty the Duties and Drawbacks of Customs now charged and allowed on the articles undermentioned shall continue to be levied, charged, and allowed on and after the 1st day of July, 1862, until the 1st day of July, 1863, on Importation into Great Britain and Ireland, or on Exportation there from to Foreign parts, or on removal to the Isle of Man for consumption therein, or on deposit thereof in any approved warehouse, upon such terms and subject to such regulations as the Commissioners of Customs may direct, for delivery there from as Ships' Stores only, or for the purpose of sweetening British Spirits in Bond, namely:—Tea; Sugar, as denominated in the
 696
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he then rose to propose the following Resolution—
 "7. That, towards raising the supply granted to Her Majesty, there shall be charged and paid for the use of Her Majesty, Her heirs and successors, the following Duty of Excise:—For and upon every Occasional Licence to be granted to any person who shall be duly authorized to keep a common Inn, Alehouse, or Victualling House, and licensed to sell therein beer, wine, spirits, or tobacco, to sell the like articles for which he shall be so licensed at any such other place, and for and during such space or period of time, not exceeding three Says, as the Commissioners of Inland Revenue shall approve, and as shall be specified in such Occasional License, the Duty of 5 s 697
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would move the following Resolutions:—
 "8. That, towards raising the Supply granted to Her Majesty, there shall be charged and paid to and for the use of Her Majesty, Her heirs and successors:—For and in respect of every Pack of Playing Cards made fit for sale or use in the United Kingdom, the Stamp Duty of 3 d s "9. That, towards raising the Supply granted to Her Majesty, in lieu of the Duties of Customs now charged on the articles undermentioned, the following Duties of Customs shall be charged thereon on importation into Great Britain and Ireland, from and after the day when the Duties of Stamps now payable on Playing Cards shall have been reduced to a like or lower amount—viz., Cards, viz., Playing Cards, the dozen packs, 3 s d s agreed to "10. That, towards raising the Supply granted to Her Majesty, there shall be charged and payable
 698
 MR. COX  said, that if the present were only a Thames Embankment Bill, he should offer it no opposition; but it proposed to make a new street from Blackfriars Bridge to the Mansion-house, which, he believed, would cost at least £1,000,000. A new route from east to west was, no doubt, urgently required, but the Bill did not go about the business in the proper way. By pulling down Temple Bar and widening Ludgate Hill an easy communication might be established with Cannon Street. Take the parallel line of street from New Oxford Street: pull down Middle Row, Hol-born, and they would have a good broad thoroughfare to the Poultry; pull down one side of the Poultry, and there would be a good thoroughfare to Gracechurch Street; pull down a few houses at Gracechurch Street, and there would be two continuous broad thoroughfares from east to west, all made at one half the money to be laid out under this Bill. He hoped the hon. Baronet would divide against the second reading of the Bill, in order to give further time for the examination of the scheme.
 MR. W. E. FOSTER  said, he did not object to the Resolution, and he quite agreed that any discussion had better take place upon the Bill. He would take that opportunity, however, of expressing his regret that they had a fresh tampering with the licensing system without an attempt to deal with the whole subject, with a view to avoid the anomalous condition of having four different licences for the sale of intoxicating liquors.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he would second the Amendment. He thought that the House, before proceeding further with the Bill, ought to be in possession of every information as to the cost of the scheme; and especially ought to have before it the Report of the Commissioners upon the embankment of the south bank of the river, which he believed would soon be presented.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If he intends to introduce any Bill during the present Session to regulate the Registry of Deeds Office, Dublin?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  also briefly opposed the Amendment.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he understood the Chancellor of the Exchequer; to admit the existence of a deficiency to the amount of £1,164,000 on a comparison of the revenue and expenditure for the year ending the 31st of March, 1862. He should wish to know how the right hon. Gentleman proposed to meet that deficit. Did he intend to meet it by a reduction of the balances, or carrying the amount into the accounts of the current year? If the latter, then what became of the small surplus which was claimed for this year? There were also some reasons for believing that there were outstanding charges which were very much in the nature of charges in the Miscellaneous Estimates for this year There was £35,000 for surveying in America; £79,000 for expenses incurred ! in British Kaffraria; and£25,000 for Vancouver's Island. There were other
 674
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, be should have thought his right bon. Friend (the First
 699 700 s s 701
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that practically the ratepayers would be unrepresented before the Committee. They could only be heard by counsel, and the expense attendant on having the services of counsel from day to day while the inquiry lasted would be very heavy. He spoke in the interest of the public, whose money should not be devoted to the buying up the wharfingers.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  stated, in reply, that he intended to lay on the table before the Easter recess a Bill to regulate the Registry of Deeds Office in Dublin.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he wished to ask whither the Chancellor of the Exchequer had any information to communicate to the Committee with respect to the working of the new Exchequer Bonds—as to whether any had been paid in for taxes.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that after the excellent answer which his noble Colleague (Lord Robert Cecil) had given to the hon. Member for Sunderland, he need hardly enter into that point; but he must protest against the doctrine put forward by the hon. Member, which had been cheered by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and which was certainly a comfortable doctrine for any Government to have held concerning them—namely, that if the Estimates were too large it was the fault, not of the Government, but of the House. [The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER: I did not cheer it. He was glad to hear it; it was certainly cheered by some one in the Chancellor of the Exchequer's immediate neighbourhood: and it was evident that some hon. Gentlemen thought that it furnished on answer to the criticisms of It is right hon. Friend (Mr. Disraeli); but that was not the point at issue; nor, with all submission, was the doctrine of the hon. Member for Sunderland the true doctrine which should be held upon the subject. It was said that his right hon. Friend was inconsistent inasmuch as he did not vote with the hon. Member (Mr. Lindsay) for the reduction of expenditure. But it was a serious thing for independent Members to vote against Estimates which were framed by the Government with a full knowledge of the facts, and which they, as responsible advisers of Her Majesty, declared were necessary for the public service. The hon. Member had alluded to the forti-
 686 687 688 689 690 691 692 s 693 694 d d d bonâ fide
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  said, he saw no reason for deviating from the usual course on similar questions. He should therefore give his opposition to the Amendment.
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council for Education, Whether he will be able to lay on the table of the House before the adjournment for Easter the provisions by which he proposes, to carry into effect the intended modifications of the Revised Code?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I hope the hon. Member will not think that I mean the least discourtesy to him if I say, in general terms, that it is not the habit of the Government of the day to announce beforehand intentions which they are not at the moment prepared to specify. When they have a proposal to make, and not before, is the time for announcing it to the House.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I cannot answer that question, Sir, until I see what progress is made with public business.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the circumstances to which the question of the hon. and learned Gentleman referred certainly required full investigation. If compensation was to be awarded to the Clerks of the Insolvent Debtors' Court, the amount must of course be voted by that House, and the House could not be expected to proceed in the matter until it was satisfied of the justice and extent of the claims put forward. The Government remained of the opinion they had previously expressed, that the proper course to be pursued was that the Clerks should petition the House, sitting forth the nature and amount of their claims. The Government would not object to such a Petition being referred to a Select Committee, and would be further prepared to act upon the Report of that Committee. He need not add that there was no intention on the part of the Government to bring in any declaratory measure upon the subject.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, he wished to move for leave to bring in a Bill for the amendment of the laws relating to the drainage of land in Ireland. As he understood there was no intention to oppose his Motion, he should not trouble the House with many observations on the subject. The necessity of some such measure was, he believed, universally admitted. For the last two years they had had sad experience of the want of an effective law of the kind. The climate of Ireland for the last few years had changed very much. Enormous quantities of rain had fallen, which seriously affected the crops, as well as the usual arrangements of the farmers. The results were a considerable diminution in the quantity of land under tillage, and in the employment of the rural population. Those circumstances had steadily increased the emigration movement, and thus tended seriously to diminish the national resources. There was also an increasing want of fuel and food. Nothing added so much to the agricultural wealth of this country and the promotion of its prosperity as a really good system of drainage. Many attempts had been made to establish an effective system of drainage in Ireland, but they all failed. A large portion of the country with which he was connected was under water during a great part of the year, and thousands of acres of hay were destroyed from the want of a proper system of drainage. In West-meath and the King's County the estimated expense of draining 15,800 acres was £45,000. The amount actually spent was £66,000, and the debt from the expenses of management, accumulation of interest, &, raised that sum to £107,000. A more simple system, worked by better machinery, in the same manner as under the Bill of last year for England, was absolutely necessary; and he should be ready, if the House allowed him to introduce this Bill,
 715
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he thought if his hon. and gallant Friend had proceeded with his speech in support of his Motion, that he should have been able to show him that the movement of the Taepings which he considered so excellent, was not all he had represented it to be.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, When Captain Cooper Coles first submitted to the Admiralty his plans which, have lately been adopted for ships of war; if such plans were reported on at the time; and, if so, by whom; and whether that Report was favourable or otherwise; and whether there is any objection to lay the Papers on the subject upon the table of the House?
 MR. LAYARD  said, he was much obliged to his hon. and gallant Friend for
 713
 MR. FREELAND : Am I to under-
 712
 MR. FREELAND  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether any application has been made to the Turkish Government for their consent to have laid upon the table of the House the Report of Lord Hobart and Mr. Foster on the Finances of Turkey; whether the: responsibility of withholding that Report rests on the English Government or on the Turkish Government; and, whether that Report has been printed; and, if so, to what class of readers Her Majesty's Government are of opinion that a knowledge of its contents should be confined, at a time when many millions of British capital are being invested in Turkish securities.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he rose to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether he means to propose any measure for the relief of the Clerks of the Insolvent Debtors' Court; and whether he intends to introduce a Declaratory Act fur that purpose?
 MR. W. EWART  said, he rose to move for a Select Committee to consider the practicability of adopting a simple and uniform system of weights and measures, with a view not only to the benefit of our internal
 714
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that he wished to state that he was not a friend of any party in China, but that he was a friend of an honest neutrality in China, and he wished to be the friend of the tax-payers of this country. In that sense alone was he connected with the Taepings in China. He understood from his hon. Friend the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs that the whole of his motion for papers would be acceded to, and therefore he would not trespass on the time of the House, further than to observe that the opinion of the House upon the policy of the Government in China would no doubt be influenced by a perusal of those papers.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Yes. The Report itself was sent to Turkey, and it is now being translated into French, which is a language which the Turkish Ministers know. There are very few of them who have sufficient knowledge of English to enable them to read a report in that language.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I was asked yesterday about the day on which, this House would adjourn for the Easter recess. It may be convenient to hon. Members that I should now state exactly how that matter stands. There are certain Resolutions connected with the Budget relating to brewers' licences, and other matters, which have yet to be passed in Committee. We hope they may be passed through Committee on Thursday, and reported on Friday, for it is essential they should be reported before the recess. In that case the House may be adjourned on Friday. On the other hand, if there should be any unforeseen delay on Thursday so as to prevent the Resolutions being passed through Committee before Friday, I am afraid we must ask the House to sit on Monday in order to receive the report. I should hope, however, after what has taken place, that we may be able to get the Resolutions passed through Committee on Thursday, in which case the House might be adjourned on Friday Until Monday the 28th.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I think, Sir, I stated on a former occasion that the Report in question was presented to the Turkish Government. It was made for the information and use of the Turkish Government, but it was delivered in the first instance to Her Majesty's Government, and was by them sent to Constantinople. I believe it has not yet been translated into a language which the Turkish Ministers can read, it being drawn up in English; and therefore I can hardly say at the present moment that the Turkish Government have knowledge of it. They have it, but not in a form in which they can make use it. The responsibility of not producing it rests so far upon Her Majesty's Government, that we did not think ourselves entitled to publish a Report relating to the financial details of the Turkish administration until the Turkish Government had full cognizance of it and had intimated that they would have no objection to its publication. Whether they may object or not I really am unable to say. The Report has been confidentially printed at the Foreign Office, as is the custom with documents which are intended to be read by Members of the Cabinet. It saves a good deal of time, and is otherwise very convenient to have them thus confidentially printed rather than to multiply manuscript copies for the Members of the Cabinet. But the documents are printed for the confidential use of the Cabinet, and I do not apprehend that any other person has had access to the Report on Turkish finances. If it has reached the hands of any other person, it can only have done so by breach of faith on the part of those who had the custody of it.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I have no knowledge of the details that would enable me to answer the question; but when my noble lord (Lord C. Paget) is in his Place, I have no doubt he will be able to give a satisfactory reply.
 COLONEL DUNNE : The Bill is not unopposed. I oppose the second reading.
 COLONEL DUNNE : I shall certainly oppose it.
 LORD STANLEY  said, considering that the question they were discussing was what was commonly called a religious question, he thought it was fortunate that the House had arrived at that degree of unanimity as to consent to send the Bill to a Select Committee; but from the speeches made it was abundantly clear that in that Committee, and in the House when the measure came out of Committee, there would be a wide divergence of opinion, and therefore some observations on its merits might not be superfluous at that moment. And before offering any remarks of his own he
 731 "Before, however, I commence this statement, I rejoice to be able to say that your Grace as well as myself is entirely disposed to favour and support any well-considered measure (as the Bill now before the House of Commons must be expected to be) for relieving any clergyman who, after he has been admitted to holy orders in the Church, should conceive conscientious scruples against a continuance in its communion. So far, indeed, from wishing to claim to the service of the altar any whose conscience bids them renounce that service, the true churchman would urge them rather quietly to withdraw than to persist in the performance of offices which they can no longer perform without peril to their own souls, and a serious offence to the souls of others." 732 733
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, the 170th clause of the existing act was clear enough, and therefore there was no necessity to repeal it, especially as it was intended to replace it by another about which there would be considerable doubt.
 MR. WILLIAMS  said, the rating in the City of London was on the same basis as that of the county of Middlesex.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, he wished to offer a word of explanation as to what the hon. Member for Buckingham (Mr. Hubbard) had termed the "sixpenny de-
 741 mutatis mutandis d
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE : But the law kept them in. They were shut out from every occupation in life, except that of a Roman Catholic priest. It came to this—the right hon. Gentleman would drive them out to starve in the streets, or he would compel them to be silent. Was it, then, mere
 725 726
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, he hoped to be able to satisfy the House that some such change as that which the measure proposed to carry into effect was not only called for and just, but would also be salutary and advantageous to the Church of England itself. The position of things which had led him to ask the assent of the House to the Bill was, that for a considerable number of years a good many of those who had taken orders had, from various reasons, deemed it to be their duty to change the opinions which they had professed at the time of their entry into the Church, and had, owing to the scruples which thus arose, considered themselves bound to resign the benefices which they happened to have held. It was matter of notoriety, indeed, that several clergymen, occupying positions of great eminence, had formed opinions which they had publicly avowed, and which, though representing the opposite poles of Christianity, were equally inconsistent with the formularies of the Church of England; and that they took the course of giving up their benefices, and thus endeavouring to free themselves, as far as lay in their power, from all their obligations as ministers of the Church to which they originally belonged. He might allude to the names of Archdeacon Manning and Mr. Newman on the one hand, and to those of Mr. Baptist Noel and Canon Woodhouse on the other, to show that the scruples of such men as those to whom he was referring were entitled, at least, to the respect of those who were the advocates of liberty of conscience. They felt—and in the opinion of every reasonable man they justly felt—that the opinions which they had formed were inconsistent with the subscriptions they had made at the time of their ordination, and they took the true and righteous course of resigning the preferments which they held. The laity of the Church of England, fortunately, were not required to trouble themselves much about subscribing to its formularies; and therefore, although much had been said and written within the last few years respecting matters theological, there was among the public generally a considerable amount of ignorance as to what the oaths and subscriptions of the ministers of that Church really were. With such obliga-
 719 "I. That the King's Majesty, under God, is the only supreme governor of this realm, &c. "II. That the Book of Common Prayer, and of ordering of Bishops, Priests, and Deacons, contained in it nothing contrary to the Word of God, and that it may lawfully so be used, and that he himself will use the form in the said book prescribed in public prayer and administration of the Sacraments, and none other. "III. That he alloweth the Book of Articles of Religion agreed upon in the convocation holden in London in the year 1562, and that he acknowledged all and every the articles therein contained, being in number 39, besides the ratification to be agreeable to the word of God. "To these three articles whosoever will subscribe he shall for the avoiding all ambiguities, subscribe in this order and form of words— "I, N. N. do willingly and  ex animo "I, A. B., do swear that I will perform true and canonical obedience to the Bishop of—and his successors in all things lawful and honest. So help me God." "Every person put into any ecclesiastical benefice shall within two months after he shall be in actual possession, upon some Lord's-day openly read the morning and evening prayers appointed to be read by the said Book of Common Prayer, and after such reading shall declare as follows:—I do here declare my unfeigned assent and consent to all and everything contained and prescribed in and by the book entitled the Book of Common Prayer, &c." 720 minimum 721 722 "No man being admitted a deacon or minister shall from thenceforth voluntarily relinquish the same, nor afterwards use himself in the course of his life as a layman, upon pain of excommunication." Geo "After the said 24th of June, 1791, no person who shall take and subscribe the oath hereinbefore appointed to be taken and subscribed in manner hereby required, shall be presented, indicted, sued, impeached, prosecuted, or convicted in any civil or ecclesiastical court of this realm for being a Papist or reputed Papist, or for professing or
 723 724 Essays and Reviews "Rev. Sir,—I have taken the opportunity of meeting many of my episcopal brethren in London to lay your address before them. They unanimously agree with me in expressing the pain it has given them that any clergyman of our Church should have published such opinions as those concerning which you have addressed us. We cannot Understand how these opinions can be held consistently with an honest subscription to the formularies of our Church, with many of the fundamental doctrines of which they appear to us essentially at variance." Essays and Reviews
 VISCOUNT ENFIELD  said, he wished to know why the 170th clause of the existing Act was to be repealed if there was to be no change in the basis of assessment.
 MR. AYRTON  said, the Committee of five did not examine the Bill of last year in a public point of view. He had pointed out that the principle upon which it was based was an incorrect principle, and the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary agreed with him in that view. The clauses of the present Bill, however, were framed upon the old and incorrect principle.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he would move the omission of the first part of the clause, in order to obtain some explanation from the promoters of the measure. The sixth and the following clause related to the powers to be granted to the Metropolitan Board of Works for assessing and levying rates. When the Bill was originally introduced, a Select Committee of five Members was appointed, on his Motion, to arbitrate, as it were, upon the contributions to be raised from the different parishes. The measure did not pass that Session. In the follow-
 742
 MR. AYRTON  said, he thought that the clause was not explicit as to the particular rate which should be taken as the basis of valuation for the purpose of the Bill.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he wished to know why the City of London was omitted from the clause?
 MR. AYRTON  said, he would move an Amendment, the effect of which was that in the City of London the assessment should be on the basis of the sewers rate.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he would move the omission of the words imposing penalties, with a view to limit the powers of the Board in respect of rates. The clause substantially constituted the Metropolitan Board a Court of Quarter Sessions, and invested them with judicial functions. It was something new in the history of the law to enable such a body, without a commission from the Crown, to act judicially and summon and examine witnesses.
 MR. BRISTOW  said, the omission of the words would be the play of  Hamlet
 MR. BRISTOW  pointed out, that the 170th clause of the existing Act and the clause now under consideration were similar in intention, and the change was only meant to make the 170th clause more practical.
 MR. BRISTOW  explained that the assessment was to be generally upon the county rate; but in the City of London there was no county rate, and there the police rate would be taken as the basis of assessment.
 MR. BRISTOW  said, he believed that the acccusations brought by the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets against the Metropolitan Board of Works had been entirely disposed of by the discussion upon the second reading of the Bill. As to the clause under consideration, it was one of those provisions which were most carefully examined by the Select Committee of five, and it met with their most unanimous approval. It did not extend the powers of the Board, but merely simplified a section of the existing Act, and enabled it to be practically carried out. There was nothing in-
 743
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he could not at all approve of the measure, which was latitudinarian in principle. Its object was to enable a man to divest himself of all the functions conferred by ordination, with an absolution from all its liabilities. This appeared to him to be voluntaryism run mad. The functions of ordination were so sacred that they were not conferred till
 737 738
 LORD FERMOY  said, the clause was intended to empower the Board to raise their rates over the whole Metropolis, instead of over the existing sewage district as at present. He thought, as applied to the main drainage rates, that was a good principle.
 MR. BALL  said, that though not himself a member of the Established Church, he recognised its great importance, and would be the last man to impair its stability. He hoped that the Select Committee, and also that the Government—who were understood to be taking ecclesiastical matters into their consideration—would inquire not only how clergymen were to be permitted to leave the Church, but how the obstacles which now prevented many valuable young men from entering its service could best be removed. The latter of those questions was much more important than the former. Hundreds and even thousands of young men were excluded from the ministry of the Established Church because the oath and the other requirements were so stringent that they could not conscientiously subscribe them. Again, the present law, by giving facilities to clergymen of the Church of England wishing to go over to the Church of Rome, while corresponding facilities were denied to those desirous of becoming Dissenting ministers, was unequal in its operation, and ought to be altered. The hon. Member for Berkshire (Mr. Walter) had correctly stated that young men at the Universities had very little opportunity of advancing themselves in ecclesiastical or religious knowledge. It was frequently a matter of great regret to those who had young friends and relatives at the University preparing for the Church, that while great pains and trouble were taken to advance those young men in the classics and mathematics, their instruction in the truths and doctrines of the Gospel which they would have to preach was much neglected.
 MR. BRADY  said, he did not think they would be justified in opposing the Bill any further, in the face of the fact that the parishes which had formerly opposed it had withdrawn their objection.
 MR. SPEAKER : Then the discussion cannot now be proceeded with, as, according to the Standing Orders of the House, no opposed business can be taken after a quarter to six o'clock.
 MR. HUBBARD  said, that he would not deny that a certain amount of grievance existed, but he thought it was infinitesimally small. There were 20,000 clergymen, and only twenty to be relieved. He regretted that with the attempt to remove that grievance there should be associated an affront to the Church of England. He by no means agreed in the remarks made by the right hon. Gentleman who moved the second reading of the Bill as to the character and intelligence of those who took orders in the Church of England. He knew it was the opinion of the Archbishop of Canterbury that within his own experience there never had been a larger number of candidates presented for ordination, and better qualified, than at the present moment. He also demurred to the title of the Bill. It was called a Clergy Relief Bill. The clergy, as a body, did not require relief of this kind—it was for the relief only of the seceding clergy. He had no objection to its being called the Seceded Clergy Relief Bill. He particularly objected to that provision of the Bill which enabled a clergyman by sending a sixpenny letter to the nearest magistrate to relieve himself of his most solemn obligations. Such a letter might be despatched in a moment of despondency and doubt, whereas if he were brought in contact with his Bishop, a change of mind might be brought about. It was a monstrous proposal that a man should be deprived of holy orders by a simple stroke of the pen. What a clergyman received from his bishop he received for life; he might be relieved from the consequences of disability, but he could not possibly be relieved from the character he had assumed. The Bill ought not, he thought, to be entertained in its present form.
 MR. LOCKE  observed, that in his opinion the Metropolitan Board of Works had not acted fairly in the matter, and its conduct had created great dissatisfaction among the ratepayers.
 MR. WALTER  said, that although en-
 734 locus pœnitentiœ 735 736
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he believed that the success of that important Bill would entirely depend upon the spirit in which the Select Committee undertook the inquiry. For his own part, seeing much that was unsatisfactory in the measure—much that fell short of what was required, and much also that was done in an ungainly manner—he was glad that it was to be referred to a Select Committee. He thought, however, that the hon. Baronet (Sir W. Heathcote) had not quite fairly stated the question before the House when he said that it related solely and exclusively to the inner life of a religious community. It related to a grievance which had become so obvious and flagrant that it could not fail to force itself upon the attention of the Legislature. At the bottom of the whole discussion lay the broad fact that there were many men of the highest integrity, who in their youth had taken orders in the Church, but who for certain reasons either secular or religious, had come to feel that those orders, which ought to be the privilege of their lives, were a burden upon both their outward and their inward existence. How many persons were there who though having no ill-will against the Church, though capable of becoming excellent lay members of the Church, were yet disinclined to become teachers in the Church, and who at the same time, in consequence of having taken subordinate orders in early youth, were inhibited from following secular occupations in which they might distinguish themselves, or, at all events, earn a just remuneration? His main objection to the Bill was, that it did not meet the case of such persons. It contained what a churchman might fairly call a premium upon heresy. It placed before every one of the class he had mentioned the temptation, which in many cases would be
 730
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, a reference to the interpretation clause would prove that the City of London Was included in the Bill.
 MR. WALPOLE : They say they remain in.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  replied, that the Decree which had appeared in the  Moniteur Moniteur
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he hoped no objection would be raised to his moving that the Bill be read a second time. The object he had in view was to have the Bill referred to a Select Committee. He had obtained leave to introduce
 716 717 "34, Belgrave Square, April 9, 1862. "My dear Sir,—I have read your Bill carefully, and have no objection to its principle, guarded as it is by the 8th, and by the 11th and 12th clauses. "I have written to the Attorney General, recommending entire assent to the second reading. I think you must define, and if possible facilitate the remedies of the debenture holders. "Yours sincerely, "WESTBURY." "Vincent Scully, Esq., M.P."
 MR VINCENT SCULLY : Of course, if the hon. and gallant Gentleman opposes the Bill, it cannot be read a second time !at this moment.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY : Then, I shall say the 7th of May for the second reading.
 MR. COX  said, he wished to know what there was of obscurity in the 170th clause of the existing Act, that they should have a new clause substituted for it.
 MR. TITE  said, there was some obscurity about the existing clause, and the Select Committee had thought it better to adopt the words of the clause now submitted.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, it seemed to be understood that the general desire was to refer the Bill to a Select Committee, and he should not have risen but that he wished to state, that having taken part in the discussion on a similar Bill in 1845, he retained the opinion he then expressed—that it was desirable some provision should be made by law to enable clergymen who had taken on themselves vows at their ordination binding them to the Church of England, if conscientiously at a subsequent period of life they entertained opinions at variance with the doctrines of that Church, to withdraw from its communion without rendering themselves liable to proceedings in the Ecclesiastical Courts for canonical disobedience. When that Bill was brought forward, there was a practical grievance existing in the case of a clergyman who, having left the Church of England, officiated as a dissenting minister. He was proceeded against in the Ecclesiastical Courts, and the penalty of imprisonment was
 739 740
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the only substantial difference between the 170th clause and this clause was, that certain words had been omitted, with a view to make the assessment simply upon the rateable value of property. He did not understand that the words of the clause had anything to do with the collection of rates; and if the Metropolitan Board were to make the assessments he could not see how they were effectually to do that without they possessed the power which the clause would give them.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he thought there was some obscurity in the clause, and he would suggest the addition of words to make the intention of the clause more plain.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he thought the matter required further explanation.
 MR. CAVE  said, he wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade, whether the recent Decree of the Emperor of the French, which permits sea fishing at all periods of the year, is intended to apply to the deep-sea oyster fishery; and if not, whether he can assign any cause for the exception?
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  said, that since his right hon. Friend had signified his willingness to refer the Bill to a Select Committee, he would not offer any opposition to the Motion for the second reading. At the same time, if he were bound to take the Bill as it stood, with only the chance of such Amendments as might be introduced in a Committee of the Whole House, he should have no difficulty in making up his mind to vote against the second reading. He had listened to the speech of his right hon. Friend with great attention, and he found considerable difficulty in following his arguments so as to discover how they applied to the Bill. There appeared, indeed, to be a good deal of confusion in the mind of his right hon. Friend on the subject. His right hon. Friend had confounded the holding of a benefice with the  status status Essays and Reviews Essays and Reviews 727 maximum residuum residuum 728 729
 MAJOR STUART KNOX  said, he rose to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, whether his attention has been called to circumstances that occurred at the late Assizes for the County Tyrone, which led to the quashing of the Petty Jury Panel and postponement of the trial of prisoners;
 760
 MR. COWPER  said, the disordered and cracked state of the bell had given him great anxiety. He had called in the most scientific advice he could find. There had been a consultation of learned doctors, and he had already laid on the table four Reports. The last Report, made after very careful investigation, was by Dr. Percy, the metallurgical chemist, of Jermyn-street Museum. He said—
 "It may now be certainly concluded that this part of the bell contains about 2 per cent more tin, and consequently is more brittle, than the alloy prescribed to the founder, which should consist of 76 per cent of copper and 24 per cent, of tin. The bell is yet capable of being sounded, and, according to the opinion which Mr. Turle expressed to me, without any sensible alteration in the quality of the sound which was produced before the cracks were discovered. If considered desirable, it might, I believe, be still used with safety, as simple and not very costly arrangements might be adopted to provide against the possible though, in my opinion, not probable, contingency of the separation and falling of any portion in consequence of any further extension of the cracks." 765
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he also wished to put a question to his noble Friend with regard to this gun. He wished to know when it was finished, and why the trial had not taken place before?
 MR. MOFFATT  said, he could but complain of the manner in which the Chancel-
 789 d
 MR. MOFFATT  explained that what he meant to say was, that the 3 d
 MR. MOFFATT  said, he hoped that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would reconsider the matter before he introduced the Bill, and would see the propriety of withdrawing the proposition, which was not only
 794
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, that as the proceeds from the tax, even upon the showing of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, would be so small, public brewers would not complain if the Government name to the conclusion that it would not be worth while, for the sake of so very trifling an amount of revenue, to produce the great amount of vexation which attended these email taxes In all the rural districts the impost, if persevered in, was sure to excite a strong feeling of irritation.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUBR  said, he did not propose to impose the tax for the purpose of inducing persons to do anything of the kind. He, however, thought it would not be fair or just towards the public brewer, if there were an inducement held out to private parties to brew at home as against the public brewer.
 MR. COWPER  moved the second reading of this Bill.
 MR. COWPER  said, he was quite ready, of course, to explain the nature of the Bill at the moment; but he imagined, that as he had done so upon the introduction of the measure, he might have been allowed to wait until he had heard some of the objections which were to be offered to it, before making his own statement. It would not be necessary again to go over the ground, which he had traversed on the introduction of the Bill, as to the necessity which existed for a measure such as that before the House. The matter had been long under consideration, and had received much discussion not only in the last Session of Parliament, but on previous occasions. A Royal Commission sat in 1860, consisting of Sir John Coleridge, Sir William Page Wood, Sir George Lewis, Dr. Phillimore, and Mr. Young; they heard evidence, and drew up a very full Report, which had been laid upon the table, recommending that measures should be taken for concentrating in one neighbourhood all the courts of law and equity. Now, the purpose which they had in view was one which had met with the general support and approbation of the legal profession. It was felt that the accommodation provided for the courts of law and equity and the offices connected with them was exceedingly unsatisfactory, and such as ought not to be tolerated any longer in such a country as England. The existing arrangements had not been deliberately made, but had arisen from various, almost accidental, circumstances. The Courts of Westminster Hall originally included both equity and common law; but in consequence of inadequate accommodation the Equity Courts were removed to Lincoln's Inn. Even in Lincoln's Inn the Equity Courts were only lodged in temporary places. So badly were they in want of room that the old hall of Lincoln's Inn was divided by a partition, and one portion devoted to the Lord Chancellor's Court, and the other to the Court of the Lords' Justices. Two of the Vice Chancellor's Courts were in a condition that every one acknowledged could not be long continued. With respect to Westminster Hall, those who had occasion to attend the courts must be perfectly acquainted with the inconveniences of the arrangements, espe-
 798 799 maximum 800 maximum 801 Vict 802 803
 MR. COWPER : I beg pardon. I used the word "hasty" in reference to the perusal of the Minute.
 MR. PEEL  said, he did not rise to answer the objections of the hon. and learned Member to a measure for concentrating the courts of law and equity on one spot, nor to say anything with regard to the applicability of funds be-longing to the Chancery Courts to the general purposes of the courts of law, though he might say, in passing, that there were no funds belonging to the courts of law which were applicable to building purposes, since by law all the surplus which might arise was payable into the Consolidated Fund. His only object was to make a few remarks on the financial bearings of the measure in connection with the Treasury Minute to which the hon. and learned Gentleman had referred. The first question for the House to consider was, what would be the probable expense of the plan of his right hon. Friend? The first estimate was£1,500,000, but the Treasury, acting under the very natural apprehension founded on their past experience that on several important occasions the actual cost of buildings had exceeded the estimate, added £500,000 to the estimate. He was bound to add, however, that his right hon. Friend the First Commissioner of Works had since carefully gone over the estimate, and he adhered to the original calculation. The Bill declared that the cost was to be paid out of money to be voted by Parliament, so that the House would retain the control of the expenditure in its own hands. The money which was available arose from the surplus funds of the Court of Chancery, and would, it was estimated, amount to £1,400,000. But of course it was not open to the public to appropriate a sum of that kind without undertaking a corresponding responsibility; and the question was, what was that responsibility, and what was the actual amount of the liability incurred. It would simplify matters if he stated that there were two funds belonging to that court, one called the Suitors' Fund, and the other the Suitors' Fee Fund. The Suitors' Fund was the general cash balance of the Court of
 811 812 maximum maximum
 MR. PEEL : It would also be necessary to take care that the expenditure of the court was not unnecessarily increased. From time to time Bills were brought into that House, placing fresh charges for salaries, &c., upon the Suitors' Fee Fund. There was one before them at that moment —the Lunacy Regulation Bill. If the House was vigilant with regard to measures of that character they need not apprehend that the liability of the public would be greater than he had stated. He by no means meant to imply that the plan could be carried out without considerable cost to the public; but he believed that in no other mode could so great and beneficial
 813
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL , said, that his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Selwyn) had omitted to make any allusion to that which had formed an important part of the statement of his right hon. Friend in moving the second reading of the Bill —namely, the credits which, as he had proved, he was entitled to take as against the expenditure, and which amounted to a sum of nearly £700,000. His hon. and learned Friend, having thus unduly swollen the expenditure, had then sought to diminish the income, for he had told the House that the probable effect of the changes which were being introduced into the law would be to diminish litigation. He (Sir William Atherton) could not concur in that anticipation. On the contrary, he thought that the growth which was daily taking place in the population, the wealth, and the commerce of the country, would necessarily compel more persons to resort, however unwillingly, to the Court of Chancery. His hon. and learned Friend had referred in a tone of disparagement to the very valuable Report of the Commissioners; but that report was confirmed by the evidence of a large number of witnesses connected with the law. His hon. and learned Friend said that there had been but one eqiuty Judge, Sir W. Page Wood, upon the Commission. That was true, but there was likewise only one common law Judge, Sir John Coleridge, upon it. The other Commissioners were the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for War, who was not engaged in the legal profession; Dr. Phillimore, who was a civilian; and Mr. Young, an eminent solicitor, whose practice lay more in the Chancery than in any other courts, so that it was impossible to argue that the Commission had not been constituted with perfect fairness, or that any undue Chancery complexion had been
 818 819
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he wished to make a very few observations. The question naturally divided itself into two obvious branches—one relating to the object in view, and the other to the pecuniary means by which that object was to be accomplished. The object was to accommodate the administration of justice in suitable and convenient courts near the chambers of both barristers and solicitors. If they were left to the exercise of their common sense, no two opinions could be formed on that part of the subject. It would be a disgrace to any country, but to such a country as this more than any other, that justice should be scattered over forty or fifty different places in so many holes and corners, here and there, in different parts of town, the offices separated by miles, the practitioners being driven up and down; there being a total impossibility of conducting business with any economy of time or system at all. Was there any great town in the comities in which justice was not better accommodated than in London? Apart from the conclusive and convincing evidence of all the witnesses examined before the Commission, and of the Commissioners themselves, there was no difference of opinion on that subject. There was a plain and
 821 822 823 maximum
 MR. WAPOLE  said, he approached the question with a strong impression on his mind, as to the present state of the finances, and with a still stronger impression of the admonition so forcibly, urged upon them by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, as to its being their duty to ponder well their financial, position before assenting to the proposal. The hon. and learned Solicitor-General had put that as he always put every question, in the fairest possible point of view, and had said, that they had two things to consider—namely, the object of the Bill, and also, the ways and means by which that object was to be accomplished. As to the first, his hon. and learned Friend had stated very candidly that the object was to collect together within the same precincts all the courts of law and equity, so as to prevent waste, of time and labour in the administration of justice. Now, he would not argue it as an abstract question. Possibly, if they had no courts, and were in a new country, the proper mode of dealing with the subject would be to place all the courts together, so that those engaged in them should not be driven from one end of the town to the other. But surely, as prudent men, if their finances were not now in that flourishing state which would enable them to incur a great outlay, nothing could be more injudicious than that, while four out of the six courts of Chancery were admirably situated for the conduct of business, and there were other courts equally well adapted for the administration of justice, they should get rid of all their existing
 824 pro tanto 825
 MR. PEEL  said, there were £2,600,000.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill for the incorporation, regulation, and winding up of trading companies and other associations. From the year 1844 down to that time a number of Acts had been passed bearing more or less upon the subject. They were seventeen in number, amongst which there were six relating to joint-stock companies generally, four to banking companies in particular, and five to the winding-up of companies. It was intended to repeal the whole of these Acts, except a small number of sections, which would be inserted in a schedule, so that for the future, if the Bill passed, all trading companies would be brought under a simple statute as to their construction, regulation, and winding-up. Instead of the limit of £100 formerly imposed, it was intended that there should be no limit to the amount of the shares of banking companies trading under limited liability. It was proposed also to limit the retrospective liability of past shareholders to one year from the date
 828
 MR. COWPER  said, he had to move that the following Members be nominated
 830 MR. COWPER, Sir JOHN PAKINGTOS, Sir MORTON PETO, Sir JOHN SHELLEY, Lord ROBERT MONTAGU, Sir JOSEPH PAXTON, and five Members to be added by the Committee of Selection.
 MR. COWPER  said, he did not see why they should postpone the Motion. If the Motion were agreed to, the Committee of Selection, which did not meet often, would be enabled to make the selection when they next met. With regard to the observations of his hon. Friend behind him (Mr. Crawford) he had no objection, if anyone chose to move that a Member of the City be added, to agree to it.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, it. was admitted, and, indeed, was evident that a, heavy public charge would result from the measure. [The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER: Subject to sets-off.] Those sets-off were of: a very illusory character. It was also plain that the House of Commons was to be saddled with the responsibility of sanctioning that expenditure. They all knew what would follow if they passed this Bill. If they did so, a considerable item would appear some two or three years hence in the Estimates; and if any dissatisfaction were expressed at its amount, they would be told,; "You voted for this Bill, and you cannot now shirk the responsibility of paying the account." They had already experienced something similar in the various law reforms which had been promulgated of late years. Law reform was a very goad thing, and he had always been a law reformer; but law reform, he thought, might be bought too dear. There was the case of the Ecclesiastical Courts, which they had thoroughly reformed, and the result was an annual charge of £120,000 for compensation. A new annual item of £25,000 appeared in the Estimates for this year, and they found it was for a reform of the Bankruptcy Court. This was the time above all others when they ought not to embark in this great expenditure. The revenue was very large, but the expenditure was so enormous that it was with the greatest possible difficulty they could make both ends meet. They seemed to proceed upon the spendthrift's idea—that when their finances were in a very unsatisfactory condition it was immaterial whether they spent more or less, and therefore they might scatter their money in every direction, regardless of future consequences. The public would soon begin to think that they were not discharging their duty when they held the purse-strings so loosely. Besides, the scheme itself was one of novelty, and had never been thoroughly thrashed out by debate in the House or discus-
 817
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  in reply said, that the questions of the hon. and Gallant Members referred rather to the War Department than to the Admiralty. He believed, however, that it had been thought necessary to test the gun in various ways before it was brought to the actual business of firing at the target. He was not really able to give a definite reason why the gun had not been tried earlier. With regard to the question of his hon. Friend (Mr. H B. Sheridan) he thought he had better refer all who took an interest in the important experiment which took place last Tuesday, to an article which had appeared in  The Times The Times Warrior 766
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he had no hesitation in saying that the Admiralty had given no sort of sanction to the publication of the report of the experiments on Tuesday last. It was a moot question whether it was desirable that all
 767
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, the Admiralty had no objection to make public all the correspondence which had taken place relative to Captain Coles's shields. Perhaps, however, if he stated shortly what had occurred with respect to those shields, the noble Lord would not press for the papers, the production of which would be inconvenient as a precedent. Inventors always desired their inventions to be made public, but it would be impossible to publish the immense mass of papers laid before the Admiralty, not to speak of the inconvenience of producing the confidential reports of officers connected with the department itself. The credit of first taking up the invention of Captain Coles was due to the hon. and gallant Member for Huntingdon (General Peel), who, when he was at the head of the War Department, thought so favourably of it that he ordered a shield to be constructed with the view of placing it in a battery. When the present Government came into power, they also entertained a favourable opinion of the value of Captain Coles's shields, not only with respect to batteries, but likewise as connected with ships; and accordingly the Duke of Somerset communicated with the War Department to ascertain what progress they were making in the matter. It was found, after some time, that the War Department had some difficulty in constructing a shield, and early in 1860 the Admiralty requested the War Office to transfer the business to them. That request was complied with, and a shield constructed for the Admiralty was tried during last autumn on board the  Trusty 763
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that Mr. Samuelson proposed a vessel in 1860 that should during action have the advantage of submerging to a certain extent, so as to offer a very small surface to the enemy's fire. That gentleman brought his plans to the Admiralty, and he, with some other members of the Board, saw them. The plans were very carefully considered by the Admiralty, but they saw that Mr. Samuelson's plans, as proposed, would not be available for Her Majesty's service, and they did not think it proper to make any experiments with them; but Mr. Samuelson was informed, that if he had any modifications to make in his proposal, the Admiralty would consider them. This was on the 22nd September 1860, since which there had been no further proposal received from that gentleman.
 LORD HARRY VANE  said, he hoped the House would not assent to the Motion of the hon. Member for Derby (Mr. Bass), for he thought his hon. Friend would gain nothing by his proposal. With regard to the question of the justice of drawbacks, he would not say one word; but he wished to take that opportunity of thanking the Chancellor of the Exchequer for having boldly met this question, and relieved the hop-growing interest from an impost which had long pressed heavily on them. He had always maintained that the hop growers would derive benefit from such a measure, but he also believed that in the long run the consumer would likewise derive benefit from the removal of the tax. He would, however, throw out the suggestion that, to do away with the visits of the exciseman, it might be advisable in all cases where it was possible to make the licence duty payable with the assessed taxes.
 LORD HOTHAM  said, he wished to put another question on the same subject to the right hon. Gentleman—Whether, before any further expenditure of public money is incurred on this account, he will give the House the opportunity of pronouncing on its propriety and necessity; and whether he will lay the Estimate on the table?
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he was afraid that he was about to descend to a subject of much smaller magnitude than the deeds of the Taepings. He wished to correct a statement made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer the last time they were in Committee of Ways and Means. He had asked the right hon. Gentleman whether the income tax collectors had, by the authority of the Government, informed those persons who were liable to that impost that they were bound to pay on the 20th March, or twelve days before the termination of the quarter. The right hon. Gentleman said, that if the collectors had done that—and he intimated a doubt of the fact—they had done wrong, because they had been told not to press for payment before the end of the quarter; and that, whatever they had done in that respect, the Government were not responsible for their actions. Since that answer was given he had received a letter from one of the leading income tax collectors; and as the right hon. Gentleman's statement had been made public, it was only fair that this letter should be made public also. The writer denied both of the right hon. Gentleman's propositions, and stated that in the general instructions issued for the collection of the income tax for the whole year—a copy of which he enclosed—the collectors were ordered to collect the quarter's tax within ten days after the same should have become due—that was, to collect the quarter due on the 20th of March before the 1st of April, and not, as he gathered from Mr. Gladstone's reply, after the 1st of April. By the general instructions the collectors were bound not only to collect the quarter's tax within ten days after it became due,
 770 "He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) further states, 'The proceedings of the collectors were not taken by the direction of the Government.' In answer, I can say we are continually feeling the action of the Government in the pressure put on us through the Surveyor and Receiver of Taxes, to hasten and complete the collection, which compels us in turn to press for the tax, which, at present, entails a great hardship upon small farmers and traders, suffering from the effects of two years' scanty harvests." "There has been a tendency of late to make the collectors the scapegoat for those in high office in connection with the income tax, which I feel to be most unjust."
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, When Captain Cowper Coles first submitted to the Admiralty his plans, which have lately been adopted for ships of war; if such plans were reported on at the time; and, if so, by whom, and whether that Report was favourable or otherwise; and if there was any objection to lay the Papers on the subject upon the table of the House?
 MR. AYRTON  said, that as the Committee could not meet before Easter, he thought the best plan would be to postpone the nomination of the Committee until after Easter. Not only were the City Members excluded, but other Members who had objected to the proposed expenditure. He should endeavour to prevent that expenditure by moving an instruction to the Committee that they be directed to inquire into the expenditure of the proposed works and report to the House, and that the corporate bodies belonging to the Metropolis be at liberty to appear before the Committee.
 MR. AYRTON  said he wished to move for leave to bring in a Bill to authorize the construction of tramways on turnpike roads and other roads in England.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he would withdraw his Motion for the time.
 MR. LAYARD  said, that he wished to say a word in explanation with reference to the answer Which he made to the hon. and gallant Gentleman the Member for Aberdeen (Colonel Sykes) on Tuesday last, When he moved for certain Returns, amongst others for a Return of the names of all British subjects in the employment of the Tartar Government. He understood the hon. and gallant Gentleman to mean those in the military service of the Chinese Government. He had been informed since that those in the civil employment were included. Now, it happened that some English gentlemen, Mr. Lay and others, had been employed by the Chinese as commissioners for the collection of revenue, and he (Mr. Layard) wished it to be distinctly understood, that when he used the term "idle adventurers" on that occasion, he did not mean to include in that the gentlemen who were employed by the Chinese for the purpose he had stated, and who were gentlemen of high character and distinguished abilities.
 MR. BUXTON  said, that since he had last addressed the House on the subject of the Government proposal with respect to brewers' licences, he had ascertained the feeling of six leading firms with respect to it, and had found that, while they agreed, with him in thinking it would on the whole be, perhaps, better they should have been allowed to remain as they were, they, on the other hand, thought they had not much reason to complain of the manner in which they had been dealt with by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The effect of the removal of the duty on hops would be to induce a very much larger growth, and hops becoming thereby more plentiful, would, of course, become cheaper, which alone would be a source of considerable benefit to the brewing interest. At the same time he was opinion that there was some injustice in the mode in which the proposal was to be carried into effect, inasmuch as it was hardly fair that the brewers should be called upon to pay in the same year the tax on hops and also the new licence duty. If the right hon. Gentleman wished that duty to be paid in the present year, he ought to allow a drawback on hops, or, not choosing the latter course, ought to defer the payment of the licence tax.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he, wished to remind the House that last Session he had called attention to the mode in which Supply Bills were laid before the House. That measure included the three branches of Excise, Customs, and direct taxes in the form of income tax. On that occasion he ventured to represent to the House, that if all these several branches of taxes were to be enacted in the same Bill, the House would lose the opportunity of discussing them separately, according to the forms theretofore adopted by Parliament. However, that Bill passed, and then the Inland Revenue Bill was introduced, framed on the same model as the other; that is, it embraced all the different branches of taxation in one Bill; and thus, as in the other case, precluded the House from the opportunity of discussing its different parts, according to the practice of Parliament. The House then did him the honour of agreeing with his representation on the subject, and the Bill was divided. He wished therefore to urge upon the Chancellor of: the Exchequer, with a view of avoiding the inconvenience of a Motion on the subject, which he, might feel it to be his duty to make, to follow this year, with regard to the Supply Bill as well as the Inland, Revenue Bill, the precedent adopted last year in relation to the latter Bill, and thus restore to the House the opportunities for separate discussion of the different taxes which they had hitherto enjoyed.
 MR. SELWYN  said, that the fees had lately been greatly reduced, and it had been the object of every Lord Chancellor to reduce them as much as was safe.
 MR. SELWYN  said, he had misunderstood the right hon. Gentleman; but, passing from that point, he must observe that, so far from the proposed guarantee being merely nominal, the Bill would involve the country in a very large expenditure. Before dealing with the statements in the Treasury Minute, he would ask the House to consider how different was the position in which they then stood from that which they had occupied at the date of that document. The Minute was dated the 17th of July, 1861. At that time they were indulging, if not in the belief, at least in the hope, that there was something like a surplus of income over expenditure on the national balance-sheet. The Chanceller of the Exchequer, however, had recently put them in possession of the disagreeable information that there was no such surplus. Under these circumstances he thought the
 804 s d s s d 805 806 "I think that is a very cruel provision. I think it is scarcely possible, if the House really understands the effect of that clause, that they will pass it. The whole course of legislation of late years has been to avoid law taxes, and, as much as possible, to put an end to them." 807 "Yes; and if the Committee ill remember the very celebrated pamphlet of Mr. Jeremy Benthem on law taxes, which produced so great a sensation, and in fact put an end to making the courts of law a source of revenue to the public, they will see that that applies precisely the same to the taxes which are now levied, though essential for the maintenance of the courts as at present established." "It was a great mistake to suppose that the Court of Chancery was indebted to the Consolidated Fund. If the balance were struck, and if the Suitors' Fund were emancipated from the burden thrown upon it, the Consolidated Fund would have £200,000 additional to bear. The accumulations of the Suitors' Fee Fund ought to be dedicated to the purpose of relieving the suitors from the fees of the Court of Chancery." [3  Hansard 808 maximum 809 810
 MR. SELWYN  said, he had hoped that the hon. Member for Lewes (Mr. Brand), whose name was on the back of the Treasury Minute to which reference had been made, would have risen to answer the right hon. Gentleman's (Mr. Cowper's) observations in respect to it; but as that hon. Member was temporarily absent from his place, it devolved on him to show that the First Commissioner of Works was not justified in treating that Minute as a hasty one.
 MR. PULLER  said, that as the interests of the hop-growers, hop-factors, brewers, and other private interests had been brought before the House with a view to their protection, he wished to say a word on behalf of the farmers. Hitherto they
 782
 LORD FERMOY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether it is true that, so far back as last autumn, Mr. Alexander Samuelson sent in to the Board of Admiralty plans and specifications for a double-skinned self-submerging Gunboat, similar to the  Nangatuck
 LORD FERMOY  said, he would move that the debate be adjourned.
 LORD FERMOY  said, upon that understanding he would withdraw his Motion.
 MR. BALL  said, he wished to ask whether the right hon. Gentleman meant, by creating the duty to induce persons who had brewed, or might be inclined to brew, their own beer, to buy brewers' beer, instead of brewing it for themselves. If that were the view of the right hon. Gentleman, he (Mr. Ball) would tell him that such a practice would not conduce to morality.
 MR. BALL  said, the hon. Member for Sussex, no doubt, was filled with sentiments of gratitude for the great boon he had received from the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and thus induced to become the advocate of that right hon. Gentleman. It would, however, be an additional misfortune to the agricultural interest if, in consequence of that boon, the hon. Member for Sussex should decline to lend that interest his support. The relief given by the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the hop growers would not benefit the agriculturists generally.
 MR. BALL  said, he did not consider that the concession which had been made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer did away with the objectionable nature of the proposed tax. He did not intend to oppose the proposal at that stage; but on a more fitting occasion be should not only oppose it, but divide the House upon it. He protested against anything tending to increase the burdens of the farmer who had not participated proportionately in the relief of burdens which had been extended to other classes of the population.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he also must complain of the irregularity of the proceeding. Such derangements of the business paper deprived hon. Members who might wish to move clauses in particular Bills of the power of doing so.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, that the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland had given no answer to the question put to him by his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Fermanagh as to whether a person engaged in the prosecution of some prisoners in Ireland had been placed on the Grand Jury.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, it appeared to him that by making this concession the Chancellor of the Exchequer had out the ground from under his own feet, because he admitted that he did not attach any great financial importance to the imposition of his new tax, but that he desired to place the public and the private brewer on the same footing. If that was the ground for adopting the proposed legislation, they ought to proceed to enter at once to the consideration of the incidence of taxation of every kind; and if the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed to deal with the question in that spirit, he ought to have listened to the hon. Member for Derby when he asked on what ground a tax was to be imposed on one class of industry and not on another. If a tax were to be imposed on o the brewer, why should the calico printer, carpet weaver, or other manufacturer, escape? The objectionable character of the tax had not been removed by its limitation, for it still intruded the excise officer into the private dwelling-house. It had been attempted to draw an analogy between the brewing licence and the shooting licence, but no fair comparison between the two could be made. The proposal would prove vexatious in its details, and opened up a question which would involve the consideration of others. He was glad to hear that the hon. Member for Cambridgeshire (Mr. Ball) intended, at the proper time, to meet it with a direct negative.
 MR. HUNT  said, he rose to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the operation of the present system of payment of the expenses of prosecutions, with reference to the due administration of justice, and to report to the House whether it was desirable that any alteration should be made in that system, either as to rates of payment, or as to the fund out of which such payment should be made. Various authorities showed that the inadequacy of the present scale was the cause of prosecutions being abandoned; amongst others, be might refer to an opinion which he understood had been delivered by the Lord Chief Justice of England from the bench on the circuit which had just expired. From that reason the ends of justice were frequently defeated.
 MR. HODGKINSON  observed, that when the Chancellor of the Exchequer had propounded his financial scheme, he had stated that the existing scale of brewers' licences was in favour of the large brewers; but he found that while, in accordance with the new scale, the licence duty to be paid by a person who did not brew more than 1,000 barrels of beer was at the rate of 15 s 783 s d
 MR. HODGKINSON  said, he had to draw the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to a matter which he had already brought under the notice, of the House before they went into committee—namely, the difference in the duty payable by large and small brewers. He trusted that the right hon. Gentleman would consent to raise the 12 s d s
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether it is true that at Shoeburyness, on Tuesday, the 8th instant, the  Warrior Warrior's
 MR. DODSON  said, he would remind
 793 s
 MR. LOCKE  said, he rose for the purpose of seconding the Motion, though he did not take the same view of the question as his hon. Friend. The brewers, although an ill-used body, had, upon the whole, been able to take pretty good care of themselves. He should second the Motion, in the interest of a class of men who had hitherto met with no consideration at all from the Chancellor of the Exchequer—the hop factors, hop merchants, and holders of hops in this country. Nothing whatever had been said about them. When the paper duty was repealed, a drawback was granted on the stocks of paper on which the duty had been paid. On every principle of justice the same boon should be granted to the holders of hops. The mere mention of the word "drawback" caused an unpleasant sensation to every Chancellor of the Exchequer; but it was perfectly clear, if the duty on hops were repealed and no drawback granted, or granted in such a way as to do an injury to the holders of that property, a great injustice would be done, which he was sure the House would not willingly sanction. In 1857 the hon. Member for Derby (Mr. Bass) was very anxious to support the hon. Member for East Sussex (Mr. Dodson) in attempting to get rid of the hop duty. A Committee to inquire into the hop duties was appointed, on which he (Mr. Locke) had the honour of sitting; and it was somewhat worthy of remark, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer should have selected from the evidence given before the Committee only the statement of the hon. Member for Derby, that if the hop duty were repealed, the consumers would derive the benefit of that repeal. [Mr. BASS: In the long run.] In a very long run indeed. If the Chancellor of the Exchequer would look through the evidence again, he would find that the answer of almost every other witness was, that the consumer would derive no benefit whatever from the repeal. It was proved by the evidence given before that Committee, that if the duty were taken off, a man who drank a pot of porter every day throughout the year would only be the gainer of 11 d 779 s s s s s s s 780 s
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL  said, he would also beg to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether the attention of the Government has been called to the fact that Mr. John M'Crossan, brother of the Sub-Sheriff of County Tyrone, an attorney in most extensive practice, employed principally in conducting criminal cases, particularly in the defence of prisoners, was for the first time placed upon the Grand Jury at the late Assizes at Omagh, to the exclusion of gentlemen who were present and who had served on former Grand Juries; that Mr. John M'Crossan was not only engaged for the defence of prisoners then for trial, and whom (although a Grand Juror) he continued to defend in the name of another attorney, but that he was also retained for the prosecution of the prisoner Donnelly, in whose behalf the Petit Jury Panel was challenged and quashed by Judge Christian; and whether the right hon. Baronet is prepared to take any steps to prevent the recurrence of a proceeding so unusual and so dangerous to the purity of the Jury system?
 MR. BASS : Than you have estimated.
 MR. BASS  said, he had given notice of his intention to move in Committee the following Amendment on the proposed additions to brewers' licences:—
 "That, in the event of the Committee adopting the Chancellor of the Exchequer's proposition, all other manufacturers, ironmasters, and coal-owners shall, on the 1st day of next October, be subject to the payment of an annual licence, to be calculated, as nearly as practicable, on the same principle, or similar principles, to that on which the brewers' licences are to be imposed." 776 d s d 777
 MR. BASS  said, that the brewers who used two bushels of malt per barrel of beer paid 5 s d s d
 MR. BASS  said, he wished to put another question to the Chancellor of the Exchequer—whether, when all duty was removed from the article, he would allow any substitute for hops to be used.
 MR. MALINS  said, there seemed to be a general impression that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had already not steered clear of error in imposing petty vexatious duties, and he wished to know how much the right hon. Gentleman expected to get from this tax on beer brewed not for sale. With regard to the hop duty, he congratulated the right hon. Gentleman on having got rid of an obnoxious impost on a most equitable principle; but he trusted the right hon. Gentleman would pause before
 792
 MR. MALINS  said, he was of opinion that no new tax ought to be imposed unless it was shown that it would produce a satisfactory result. As the proposed impost would only produce a small sum, and would create a great deal of dissatisfaction, he thought the Chancellor of the Exchequer would be acting very unwisely in persevering with his Resolutions. He trusted that during the coming recess the right hon. Gentleman would reconsider the question, fend ask himself whether it was worth his while to embody the Resolution in his Bill under all the circumstances stated.
 MR. MALINS  said, he rose to express a hope that his hon. Friend would not persevere in his intention to divide the Committee. He (Mr. Malins) should prefer leaving the matter to the good sense of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, particularly
 796
 MR. MALINS  said, he agreed with the hon. and learned Attorney General that there was a general concurrence of opinion in the profession of the law that something ought to be done. The question was what that something should be. It was admitted on all hands that the courts of common law were both badly situated and inconvenient in themselves, and that they should be put in a central situation. There was also a general agreement that the best site which could be selected was the site bounded on the north by Carey Street, on the east by Bell Yard, on the west by Clement's Inn, and on the south by the Strand. With respect to the courts of equity, it was quite unnecessary to spend a single sixpence on the courts occupied by the Lord Chancellor, the Lords Justices, the Master of the Rolls, and the senior Vice Chancellor, but the two junior Vice Chancellors sat in courts which were little better than covered sheds. He had spent his life in one of them, and he could say that in summer they were very hot, while in winter they were very cold. Another evil was that the administrative business of the Court of Chancery was transacted in chambers altogether inadequate in point of size and accommodation. Now, the business of the Court of Chancery could not be computed at less than one-third of the whole judicial business of England, and the adoption of the plan proposed by Lincoln's Inn would at once provide for the transaction of that vast mass of business without making any demand upon the public purse at all. But for the proposal of this gigantic scheme, the whole evil would have been remedied years ago. Undoubtedly the country should provide the courts necessary for the proper administration of justice; but the House ought not to suffer them selves to be deceived. Let
 820
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, that on the part of the City of London he objected to the composition of the Committee. Part of the object of the Committee was to make a street from Blackfriars to the Mansion-house, but there was not a single Member connected with the City who was on the Committee.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  explained, that after the present £1,000,000, there was £1,000,000 due in April, 1863; another £1,000,000 in October, 1864; and 600,000 in November, 1864; total, 3,600,000. The rate of interest for the new bonds was not yet fixed, as they would not he issued until the end of May.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I consider myself pledged to this part of the Resolution as an act of justice. Let not the hon. Gentleman withdraw from a division under the notion that I shall reconsider the matter.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, his hon. Friend the Secretary to the Treasury had stated with precision the pecuniary part of the question. If, as the hon. Baronet seemed to suppose, he (Mr. Gladstone) had declined, on the part of the Government, all responsibility for the financial scheme of the Bill, he must have expressed himself very unfortunately, as, on the contrary, he believed that it was at its  maximum 815 816
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that such establishments would be treated as if they were private houses. In answer to the hon. and learned Gentleman, the Member for Wallingford (Mr. Malins), as to what would be the amount of the proceeds of this tax, he might state that the fiscal importance of the tax was not such as to admit of the Government making it an essential point of the plan which they had proposed. The proceeds would be valuable so far as they went, but the amount would not be such as to make the tax a vital part of the plan. The discussion, however, which had taken place convinced him more and more that it would be but an act of justice towards the brewers that a charge of the kind should be imposed. If it were wholly impossible to collect such a duty, that might be as argument against its imposition; but in the form proposed by the Government there could be no very serious inconvenience in that respect. As to the amount to be derived from the tax, he could not give the hon. and learned Gentleman any further information than some figures from the very roughest computation. The proceeds might be guessed at £5,000, and even as high as £15,000; but the best and fairest criterion, upon the whole, might be formed from the quantity of malt used by private brewers. The paper which he held in his hand showed that the quantity used was 2,729,000 bushels, or between 6 and 7 per cent of the whole amount charged with duty; and the amount of the hop duty was £225,000. Therefore, if they took the proceeds at 6 per cent, that would give about £13,000 from this duty. Now, that might be too high or too low; but every Member of the
 795
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had intended to dispose of the question put to him by the hon. Member for Derby, but, amid the multitude of details, it had escaped him. The question related to a technical point, though of considerable interest to the trade. The hon. Gentleman wished to know whether it was intended to retain in force the prohibition which now existed by law to use any other bitter instead of hops. The prohibition was certainly founded on fiscal grounds, and, that being so, he did not see upon what principle that prohibition could be maintained after the trade in hops was set free, and after the Legislature took no cognizance of the quantity of hops that was or was not used. It seemed, therefore, to follow that, at any rate, that prohibition should not be maintained in force. As to drugs of a deleterious character, he was informed the law was sufficient to repress the use of unwholesome ingredients. It was extremely difficult to estimate the quantity of hops that would remain unconsumed in the country on the 15th of September. He was not in a position to give any information on that subject to the Committee. When he stated that there would be a loss of £40,000 or £50,000 a year by the repeal of the duty, he said there would also be a further charge in respect of hops exported. His hon. Friend behind him (Mr. Moffatt) seemed to think that the duty ought to be paid on the number of barrels brewed within the foregoing year; but if that were adopted as the basis, it would be impossible for him to propose the plan at all in the present state of the Exchequer without creating a deficit. He should,
 790
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought that that proposition would be still open to the same objection, as it would withdraw three-fourths of the whole £300,000 from the current year, and entail the necessity of a new tax. Whenever the tax amounted to more than £10, it would be optional to the party to pay it in two payments, on the 1 st of October and the 31st of March; and if the brewer thought fit to claim on any difference beyond the  maximum
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that since he had addressed the Committee on a former occasion, he had ascertained that there were means of finding the rental of farmhouses when they were over £20 in value; and, that being so, he did not think there was any sufficient ground for creating a distinction between persons occupying farmhouses and other persons. He proposed, therefore, to strike out of the next Resolution all the words having special reference to farmhouses, so that there would be no distinction between farmers and other persons. That would simplify matters very much, and prove so far favourable to the farmer, who not only brewed for the consumption of his own family, but with some reference to the conduct of his trade.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he must admit that the scale was not perfectly identical, and that compassion had been shown at both ends. The very small and the very large brewers had been favoured. These two anomalies were intelligible upon different principles. The principle applicable to the small brewer was that he should not be charged a sensible tax on his trade when upon the large brewer the licence was little more than nominal. The principle upon which uniformity had been departed from at the other end of the scale was that the large brewer, who had the responsibility of paying an equivalent for the hop-duty in ready money, should not pay more than he now paid in the double charge for licence duty and hop duty.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : He uses more malt than the ratio of two bushels to the barrel, on which we founded our Estimate, but my hon. Friend is too acute not to perceive that the malt is used as a criterion of the consumption of bops. It is not the malt which he uses that is to determine the duty which he has to pay, but the hops which he consumes. We are not giving up the malt duty. If we could sacrifice it upon the altar of agriculture, the argument of my hon. Friend would, no doubt, be a fair one to urge; but unless he can show that he uses a smaller proportion of hops, he has no case whatever. I should be sorry if anything could be said by me or others to induce my hon. Friend in the slightest degree to alter the component parts of his beer, a beverage from which we all derive the greatest satisfaction; but so the matter stands. My hon. Friend has pointed out that there would be some hardship in calling upon brewers to pay in advance in respect to the hop duty. I do not admit that we shall call upon them so to pay in advance. A brewer supplies himself with his hops usually within a short period after the hops are in a condition to be sold. The great bulk of the crop passes almost immediately from the hands of the growers to those of the brewers. Now, my proposal is that the first portion of the licence duty shall be paid on the 1st of October, and the second on the 1st of March; and with reference to the crop of the year, I do not think it can be alleged that in that way the money will be paid materially earlier than it would be paid in the ordinary course of the brewing trade. 786 s 787
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had already offered explanations upon the proposed alteration of brewers' licences, but that if there were
 788 "11. That, towards raising the Supply granted to Her Majesty, there shall be charged and paid for the use of Her Majesty, Her heirs and successors, the following Duties of Excise on Licences to brew Beer (that is to say):—For and upon every Licence to be taken out by any Brewer of Beer for sale,—
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I think we have anticipated in this discussion many points which might with greater convenience have been dealt with in Committee; but, since they have been raised, I may be permitted to dispose of them as briefly as I can, noticing only what appears to me material. Let me allude, first of all, to what has been said with respect to private brewing. The proposal of the Government with regard to a licence in respect of private brewing was not announced to the House as one of great financial importance. What I said to the House was, we are going to require from brewers for sale a payment in hard cash for every pound of hops they are estimated to use, and we cannot fairly make that demand upon them if we give to persons who choose to brew in private a positive premium by telling them that they shall have their hops free of duty without any payment at all. It may be true that Brewers for sale brew more cheaply than private brewers. With that we have nothing to do. Our business is simply not
 784 785
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : It is the intention of the Government to follow the precedent of last year in respect of Supply, which was adopted after full consideration. I do not think the suggestion of the hon. Gentleman is correct that we have departed from precedent in the instance of the Inland Revenue Bill, which was divided into two Bills. The Inland Revenue Bill was not a Supply Bill; and as to such Bills, where it appears to the House that they relate to subjects which naturally divide themselves, and are more convenient to deal with in more than one branch, the Government is always ready to accede to those views when it considers them to be founded upon justice. The question of Supply Bills is different, because
 773 à fortiori 774 775
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it would be a great convenience for the public business if this Bill,
 768
 MR. DEEDES  said, he thought, as they were so near Easter, it would be better to postpone the appointment of the Committee till the House met after the recess.
 MR. DEEDES  said, he was bound to say, so far as regarded the county which he represented, that the scale of allowance to witnesses was not an impediment to justice. At the same time, as there had been complaints, he thought it well that a Committee should be appointed.
 MR. DEEDES  said, the question was a very important one; and unless it were postponed till after Easter, he should oppose the introduction of the Bill.
 COLONEL W. STUART  said, he should be glad to learn how lunatic asylums hospitals, and similar institutions would be affected by the impost.
 COLONEL SYKES  stated, that since the promulgation of the Budget he had received a communication from China which would be interesting to the Chancellor of the Exchequer. It was from a gentleman who had been many years in China, and was thoroughly acquainted with the country. The letter said that representations had been made by the Taepings to the authorities at Shanghai, to the effect that if, in contravention of our neutrality, English officials continued to collect Customs duties on the part of the Tartar Government, and hand them over to the Tartars to be employed against the Taepings, the latter would be reduced to extremity, their forbearance, which had hitherto been unexampled, would be worn out, and they would be compelled, in self-defence, to destroy the whole of the
 769
 MR. VANSITTART  said, he had received a communication from one of his constituents complaining bitterly of the paltry, vexatious, and useless tax on domestic brewing. His correspondent said that they might just as well tax his wife for making a cup of tea or baking a loaf of bread as tax him for brewing a little beer for the consumption of his family. He regretted that the hon. Member for Cambridgeshire was not prepared to divide the Committee against that trivial and obnoxious impost; and certainly if he saw any chance of obtaining support, he would himself take a division against it.
 MR. VANSITTART  said, as the amount expected from the tax was so small, the right hon. Gentleman ought not to impose such a burden upon his fellow-creatures, many thousands of whom would be affected by it. He was certainly disposed to divide the Committee upon the Resolution.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he should not oppose the introduction of the Bill, be he thought the hon. Member would expedience considerable difficulty in obtaining the assent of the House to the measure.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the law relating to corrupt practices at elections of Members of Parliament. The Bill was founded mainly on the Resolutions of the Committee which sat in 1860, to inquire into the operation of the Corrupt Practices Prevention Act, and it provided for the continuance of that Act, with some material alterations, for a period of five years. It was proposed to comprise in the present Bill the enactments in the present Act, as well as some enactments which would be introduced for the first time. The Bill would re-enact the clauses relating to bribing and treating, and reduce the penalties attaching to those offences, in accordance with the recommendation of the Committee. The Committee recommended that in boroughs no provision should be made for the conveyance of voters; but the House having already pronounced its opinion on that subject when a Bill having reference to it was before them, he did not intend to introduce any provisions into the Bill in reference to that point. By the eighth Resolution the Committee expressed the opinion that the appointment of election
 827
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he should not resist the Motion. He might remark, however, that the expenses of prosecutions had become so heavy a charge on the Consolidated Fund that some check was necessary to prevent further increase in the amount. Accordingly, in 1857, when he was Home Secretary, a new scale of allowances for witnesses, &c, was adopted, which he was bound to admit had caused
 829 "We find that the greatest differences prevail in the different parts of the country as to the charges usually allowed—differences for which we cannot account by any such satisfactory reason as might be afforded by the contrast between urban and rural districts, or between districts thinly inhabited and without roads, and districts traversed by roads and railways. Nor, while it is alleged that failure of justice will be the necessary consequence of reduced allowances, do we find that in jurisdictions like those of Surrey, Kent, Hants, Somerset, and others in which the scale is low, crime escapes punishment from a reluctance either to prosecute or to give evidence." "It will probably be objected that some of these allowances are too low by the counties in which larger allowances have heretofore prevailed; but we find that they exceed the allowance in the counties on the Oxford and Norfolk circuits, in some on the Western and Home circuits, and several other places where no failure of justice has ever been alleged to exist.. In point of fact, the scale of the Home Office was based on evidence derived from the counties "
 SIR GEORGE GREY  stated in reply, that in some cases the replies were to the effect that the police might be employed in the collection of agricultural statistics, but in the majority of instances the Courts of Quarter Sessions expressed an opinion unfavourable to the employment of the police. That opinion, however, was in some cases accompanied by another, to the effect that it was desirable that agricultural statistics should be collected. The replies would be produced if the hon. Member moved for them.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to ask how many Exchequer Bonds were outstanding?
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he hoped the House would pay the closest attention to the proposition before them. It had been said that the House was to provide the money from year to year, and; therefore they would have a check upon the expenditure; but past experience showed that such checks were fallacious, and he hoped that they would never fall into such a trap again. The Houses of Parliament were, as they all knew, originally estimated to cost £770.000, but eventually upwards of £2,000,000 was expended upon them; and although hon. Members did their best from time to time to close the transaction, they were unable to do so until they determined to vote no more money, and Sir William Moles worth was requested to bring in a final estimate, which was accordingly done. The only explanation they; had ever succeeded in getting from Sir Charles Barry as to the cause of the increase from the original estimate, was that it had "gradually clothed itself with £2,000,000." He considered the system of finance contained in the measure was one of the most fishy and rotten ever submitted to a deliberative assembly. The whole Bill smelt from first to last of the Consolidated Fund. It began with the Consolidated Fund, and he felt certain it would end with the Consolidated Fund. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Treasury (Mr. Peel) had opened a different view to that taken by the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Selwyn). The main fund of the Court of Chancery was known by the letter A. It was a very large fund, consisting of stock and cash, but principally of the former. The Suitors' Fund was called B, and B was said to be a guarantee for A. Why? Because Stocks might fall. Supposing, then, there was a war, and Stocks fell to 80, there would be a heavy deficit. So much for the guarantee. Then, with regard to the fund itself, he could not conceive how the House could propose to take the capital of a fund the revenue of which was absolutely or nearly disposed of. It appeared to him to be an absurdity. His right hon. Friend admitted that there was a charge upon it of £30,00; or £40,000, which, taking interest into account, was equivalent to a capital of £1,000,000. The accounts of 1859 showed that there was a difference only of £3,000, the total revenue carried to account C being £226,000, and the total expenses being
 814
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he believed that the Bill was harmless, but it had been read the second time before printed copies of it were delivered to hon. Members; and he must protest against the practice of hurrying through measures before the House had the opportunity of making itself conversant with their provisions.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to repeat a Question which he put the other night. For the last two years he had thought their financial policy so unsatisfactory that he never felt himself in a position to support the repeal of the paper duty, or any other duty. He had always anticipated the serious deficiency of the last two years; and he thought there
 771
 MR. CAIRD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If he will state to the House, and lay upon the table, the substance of the replies by the Courts of Quarter Sessions to his circular on the subject of Agricultural Statistics.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he wished to
 764
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he wished to ask the noble Lord whether that clear and graphic account which appeared in  The Times
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, it seemed to him that his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Locke) had taken for granted what was certainly not the general impression, namely, that the hop factor was the person who paid the duty. He held that the hop grower paid the duty before the stock went into the hands of the hop factor. In point of fact the hop factor had never paid the duty. He maintained it was so, and he believed the proposition of the Government would prove most beneficial to the growe. No doubt, a considerable quantity of hops held by factors were unsaleable, and they would be glad to get the drawback on them.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, he objected strongly to the proposal to bring farmers, tradesmen, and country gentlemen, and others who brewed their own beer, under the cognizance of the Excise. The Chancellor of the Exchequer told the House the other night that all that such persons would have to do would be to take out a licence, just like taking out a licence to shoot; but of course there would be provisions for recovering penalties for evasion of the duty, and that could never be carried out except by establishing a system of espionage over every private family who brewed their own beer, which was a complete novelty in this country. The hon. Member, for Derby (Mr. Bass) had not gone into the question contained in the Amendment which he had put on the paper; but certainly if one class of persons were to pay for licence to carry on a trade, there was no reason why all classes should not pay in the same way. Why should cotton manufacturers or coalowners or the learned professions be exempt? The Chancellor of the Exchequer would find that he had opened a very large question in proposing to tax people for permission to carry on their own affairs. Speaking on behalf of a constituency that were highly sensitive upon this subject, he should support the Motion
 781
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, that many farmhouses had been too highly assessed to the house tax, though many persons had submitted to the injustice rather than put themselves to the expense, the trouble, and the annoyance of making an appeal; but he protested against the adoption of the house tax as a criterion, for it was no longer a fair or just criterion; and if it were to be continued, an attempt would be very generally made by persons to bring the rating of their houses below the sums mentioned in the Resolutions. He hoped that the imposition of the tax would not he converted into such if an instrument of oppression as the income tax had in many cases been made, for he must say that he had never known the latter to be collected with so much harshness as within the last few months.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : With reference to the Question put by the hon. and gallant Member for Fermanagh, I may state that the trial of the person in question has been postponed till the next Assizes, the Counsel for the Crown having agreed to that course, with the approval of the Judge before whom the case went.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  replied, that the circumstances to which the questions related had excited a good deal of feeling in Tyrone, and the attention of the Government had been called to them. As he had been in communication with Justice Christian, with the High Sheriff of Tyrone, and with the other authorities of the county, he might briefly state what the real facts were. It appeared that late on the last day of the Assizes, after all the other cases had been tried, a prisoner was arraigned before Justice Christian on an indictment of manslaughter. The counsel for the prisoner put in a challenge to the array of the Jury Panel, and the principal allegation was that the Sub-Sheriff had put upon the list the names of certain persons who were not on the list of the Clerk of the Peace for the current year, and had omitted the names of certain other persons who were upon that list. Two courses, as stated by Justice Christian, were open to the Counsel for the Crown. One was to traverse the challenge—in other words, to deny the truth of the allegations contained in it; and the other was to demur to the challenge—that was to say, to admit the facts, but to deny their sufficiency in law. The Counsel for the Crown adopted the
 761
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he wished to elicit from the right hon. Gentleman a statement upon a point respecting which there appeared to be some misunderstanding. It was understood that a portion of the China Vote of Credit of last year had not been expended, and therefore it would not be necessary to take any further Vote for the present year, because there remained some £500,000 or £600,000 unexpended, and probably there would be about £500,000 more to be expended. He wished to know whether it was intended to surrender the balance of the old Vote, and take a fresh Vote, or to rely simply upon the balance unexpended? If it was not intended to take any new Vote, it was difficult to understand how that £500,000 could be brought into the
 772
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  said, he should have thought that the right hon. Gentleman would have given some explanation in moving the second reading of so important a measure. It came before the House under very peculiar circumstances, and required very strong justification, because any hon. gentleman who had read the Treasury minute upon the subject would know that it was not only open to considerable observation on the part of independent Members, but that the magnitude of the transaction had attracted the notice of Her Majesty's Treasury, and the conclusion to which they came was eminently unfavourable to the Bill. He should have expected, therefore, that when a Bill
 797
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he thought the House might affirm the names now proposed. By so doing, hon. Members, who might be desirous of moving that others be added, would not be precluded from doing so.
 MR. COWPER  said, the Police regulation had not arisen from any defect in the construction of the bridge, but was part of the original design. Mr. Page, when lie designed the bridge, intended that the light traffic should go on one portion of the bridge and the heavy traffic on another. He constructed a roadway for light traffic by placing blocks of wood on bitumen, that bitumen resting on a concrete of cork and bitumen, and thus making an elastic roadway. The heavy traffic was not to pass along that elastic roadway, but Mr. Page had constructed for it au iron tramway at the sides of the bridge. It was true, a question had arisen as to whether the bridge was fit to bear the greatest load that
 858
 MR. COWPER  said, they would be laid on the table either that night or at the meeting of Parliament after the recess.
 MR. PEEL  stated, that the account of gross Income and Expenditure up to the 31st of March, 1862, would be laid on the table after the recess.
 MR. GRANT DUFF  said, the Italians are generally accused of being hot-headed; but I think that, in the matter of this de bate, they have given us a lesson in moderation. When it was first understood at Turin that the hon. Baronet intended to call the attention of this House to the in-
 926 927 928 929 930
 SIR , the other case to which my hon. and learned Friend referred is a matter with respect to which it is impossible, on a debate suddenly arising, to arrive at any judgment. It is, I am afraid, impossible that such atrocities in their degree should not occur. It is in the nature of a revolution partaking, as it must, of the charaeter of civil was—though it has partaken less of that in Italy than in any revolution of equal magnitude that ever took place in modern times— it is of the nature of a civil war to engender bitter and ferocious passions; and there is one circumstance, above all, that invariably gives an intensity to these ferocious passions—that is, when those who contend on the other side as representing and being supported by a foreign influence. Sir, it is foreign influence interfering in Italy, it is foreign influence that gives its character to those horrors wherever they prevail in the South of Italy; and for that foreign influence, I regret to say it, the present temporal Soverign of the Roman States is principally reponsible. It may be natural enough for the exking the Two Sicilies to do what he can to regain his power, and we can perhaps hardly blame him if he be not too scrupulous as to the means; but it is he who shelters him; it is he who, being sheltered himself by the defence of France, extends that shelter to the expelled King of the Two Sicilies—it is he who is most deeply reponsible for the continuance of the disorders in the South, and for whatever of
 943 944 facchino 945 946 947 948 949 régime régime 950
 MR. LOCKS  said, then, that a noble Lord [Order! order!]—that somebody in another place was sometimes tedious, and that certainly was no aspersion on his character, for hon. Gentlemen in that House were sometimes tedious. He did not wish hon. Gentlemen opposite to be deceived. They looked forward to a glorious accession to power. The hon. Member for Dundalk, and those who agreed with him, had a right to know what were the opinions of the late Government on the Italian question, and the hon. Member for Norfolk (Mr. Bentinck), who sometimes entertained opinions of his own irrespective of his party, ought to be informed by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Bucks whether, if his party came into power, he intended to support the Pope or the King of Italy. He felt sure that some explanation would be offered by some hon. Member opposite. He was not going to take part in the debate, he had merely risen for the purpose of asking a question. It seemed to him most extraordinary that throughout the evening the front Opposition bench should have remained unoccupied, but he now saw upon it his hon. Friend the Member for Horsham (Mr. Fitzgerald) from whom he trusted the House would receive some information.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE , in postponing the second reading of the Bill until after Easter, said, the impression which had prevailed that the financial results of the measure would be to put £1,000,000 of money into the pockets of the landed proprietors was an entire mistake; on the contrary, the Bill would raise from £35 to £80, the absolute burden on the heritors.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he thought he could not be out of order in reading a published document. He could understand the anxiety of the hon. Gentleman to address the House, for he had attempted three or four times without success to catch the Speaker's eye—but he was scarcely justified in calling him to order. Still he would not read the names if the lion. Gentleman objected to it. He had, however, a declaration which he supposed lie might read, because it was a printed document, written by Murat himself. It was written on March 27, 1861, and was as follows:—
 "I quite understand that in the presence of these calamities the memory of my father should shine like a ray of hope. As long as the people of the Two Sicilies exist, so long will the name of Joachim Napoleon be dear to and venerated by all; and I, his son, would feel honoured in braving
 923 l'aristoeratie artificielle de conspirateurs casus belli "You will find some orders for the discharge of
 924 925 "The stories that were told of the cruelties and excesses of the Austrians were wanton fictions to excite the people against them. A French correspondent, who had forwarded to the  Debate à coups de baton
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he did not propose to address himself to the question of Rome or Gaeta or the Quadrilateral. He was anxious to look at the question from an English point of view. It was a question not so much what the past policy of this country had been as what its future policy ought to be. With that feeling it was not his intention in any way to animadvert on the past conduct of the Government. He would not follow the hon. Gentleman who had preceded him in referring to what had passed in 1847. lie was quite willing to let the dead past rest; but he must say with regard to the English view of the question, they were bound to take a very great interest in the matter. In the first place, he had implicit faith in what had fallen from the Earl of Clarendon with regard to his conversation with Count Cavour, and probably the words which he had employed in that conversation at a time
 922
 MR. LAYARD :—Sir, If I were in the place of the hon. and learned Member (Sir G. Bowyer) who has just spoken, the very last thing I should wish to do would be to call the attention of the House and of the country to the present state of Italy. I am quite willing to believe and to admit that my hon. and learned Friend is perfectly sincere in the opinions he entertains, and that he has honestly expressed his own convictions; but I rejoice at the same time to learn from my hon. and learned Friend himself that they are his convictions alone, and that, they are not shared in by other Members of this House—a statement which, I think, has been fully confirmed by the manner in which the speech he has just made has been received. [Sir GEORGE BOWYER: A great many hon. Members with whom I usually act agree with me.] That may be so, but where are they? All I can say is this, that having attentively listened to every word that has fallen from my hon. and learned Friend, I can affirm with some confidence that it has never been my fortune to hear a speech delivered in this House which has met with so little sympathy. I most sincerely rejoice that such should have been the case. I should have been deeply grieved and mortified as a Member of the House of Commons, and as an Englishman, if the words of my hon. and learned Friend had found an echo within these walls. I am confident they find none in this country. I have no doubt that my hon. and learned Friend is most sincere and earnest in his advocacy of the temporal power of the Pope, of priestly rule, of irresponsible administration and the maintenance of popular ignorance and popular superstition as principles of Government. [Sir GEORGE BOWYER: No! No !] Well if my hon. and learned Friend will bear with me for a little while, and will permit me to proceed, I think I shall be able to prove to the satisfaction of the House, if not to his own, that the opinions he has expressed could bear no other interpretation, and the policy he advocates could lead to no other result. Such being the views of my hon. and learned Friend, if he were wise he would do his utmost, instead of inviting discussion, to keep from the eyes of the world, to withdraw from the field of investigation and inquiry, the condition of those provinces which have been happily released from the dominion of the Pone and of the
 876 877 878 879 880 881 882 883 "In your last you inquire how we are getting on here, and I am happy to be able to state that, as far as the intelligent part of the population is concerned, they are delighted at the change of Government, and everybody is astonished at the results which have already been obtained here. The most rapid strides have been made where they were most wanted—namely, in education. We have now Infant Schools and Evening Schools for the adults of the poorer classes; at the former there are 195, which number will be augmented as fast as the locality can be prepared (of course a convent), and at the latter about 500. For the middle classes we have the Gymnasium, from the age of eight to fourteen: the Lyceum from fourteen to eighteen, and the University for the later stages. This last institution existed before, but has been endowed with a fart of the revenues from the suppressed Convents, and has received an increase in the number of Professors. Besides these we have a  Scuola Tecnica 884 f 885 886 887 888 889 890 Gazette de France 891 892 "I left Bad accompanied by my brother. The road being considered Unsafe; two diligences, having altogether 14 passengers, travelled in company. On the 14th of March we Were Stopped by a large band in the valley of Bovino. Amongst the passengers were a lady, art old sergeant of veterans, a police officer, a monk, and my brother; the others were private travellers. We were taken some miles into the forest, where the largo body of brigands were assembled—these Numbered about 100, all young men dressed as peasants, not at all as soldiers. Two appeared to act as chiefs, one of whom was called Chiavone, a man of about 35 or 36 years old; the other Crocco, a mart about 22 or 23. We Were stripped of our money and clothes; the lady's earrings were also taken the sergeant was then shot; the policeman was bound and thrown amongst a heap of faggots, which were set on fire, and he was burnt. The rest of us remained for some time in extreme terror, not knowing what would be our fate; finally, one of the chiefs ordered that we should be let go, and we were released accordingly, found our way to Ariano, and thence to Naples" (Mr. Bonham himself adds:) "I have to-day seen a telegram reporting the burning alive of a priest by the same band of Crocco, near Ascoli, which is also in the neighbourhood of Bovino." "Doubtless the utmost exasperation exists on the part of the troops towards the brigands; it cannot be otherwise. The latter put to death with excessive cruelty any one of the troops who has the misfortune to fall into their power—cut off the mustachios and chin-tufts of their victims, and wear them as ornaments in their hats. Having such trophies, it is not possible to suppose they can expect or receive quarter when they, on their
 893 "Castelluccio, a village containing nearly 1,500 inhabitants, situated about two miles from the frontier, was the object of their (Chiavone's band) attack. This unfortunate village was surprised, sacked, and partly burned before the troops and the national guard of Sora, distant five or six miles, could reach the spot. The brigands then retired with their plunder across the frontier." "The band of Cipriani, about Nola and Avellino, is still uncaptured, and makes occasional descents upon villages and outlying hamlets, plundering and carrying persons off for ransom." 894 "When Joachim perceived that there was no crime of which the brigands were not capable, he passed a law conferring unlimited power on one of his generals to try every case in Calabria, whether military or civil, for the destruction of brigandage. General Manhes, who was selected for this office, passed the ensuing October in preparations, waiting until the country should be bare of fruit and leaves, which provided the brigands with food and shelter." "He then published lists of brigands in every commune, and issued orders to the citizens to kill them or take them prisoners."He punished with death all correspondence, not even excepting that between wife and husband, or between mother and son; he armed the innocent parents against their own sons, and brothers against brothers. He prohibited, under pain of death, labourers to carry any food with them into the fields. These decrees were so severe that they appeared to be only dictated to strike terror; but shortly afterwards facts put an end to this incredulity. "Benincasa, a chief of brigands. Was apprehended and taken to Cosenza. Manhes directed his hands to be cut off, and that he should then be taken to San Giovanni, his native place, and hung on the gallows. He actually underwent the first portion of this sentence in Cosenza, and marched on foot the same day to San Giovanni, where he met his death bravely." "Gaetano Vardarelli, an ex-soldier, a brigand, formed a formidable band, and set the police at defiance. The Government at last treated with
 895 896 897 "I doubt whether, except with a portion of the nobility who were personally attached to the Bourbon family and Court, and many of the peasantry who are specially under the influence of the priesthood, there is any considerable party whose feelings of discontent go the length of causing a wish for a return to the former Government. I arrive at this conclusion in a great measure from the fact that throughout the whole country, with one or two insignificant exceptions, the National Guard has held stanch to the Government, and has been everywhere and on every occasion found acting by the side of the regular troops. The ranks of the mobilized National Guard, composed entirely of natives of the localities in which they were raised, two companies for each district (circondario), have been thus far quickly and efficiently filled, already numbering upwards of 15,000 men. General Piola tells me these men have already rendered good service." 898 ab abusu 899 "On the 17th of February, 1861, there were (in the Neapolitan provinces) 1,020 establishments for men, containing 13,611 monks and laymen, namely: 1st—3,005 monks-proprietors, that is to say 1,924 fathers and 1,131 laymen, with a revenue of 3,323,785 francs a year. 2nd—1,657 mendicant friars, with a revenue of 1,232,182 fr. 3rd—8,899 absolute mendicants without revenue, namely, 5,382 fathers and 3,52 7 laymen. The above 4,662 monks-proprietors therefore enjoyed a revenue of 4,555,967 fr., which makes an average for each individual of 977 fr. a year. "It is worthy of remark that several monasteries have not yet sent in a return of their revenues. The other 8,899 live on the alms of devotees and of the lower classes. The convents on the I7thof February, 1861, were 276 in number, occupied by 8,001 females, of whom 5,103 were nuns, and 2,898 novices, with a revenue of 4,772,794 fr., making an average of 596 fr. for each," 900 901 902 903 "A change of Government, long foreseen and foretold, was brought about by Garibaldi's entrance into Palermo. The old structure fell to pieces, and a new and better fabric rose by degrees. Anarchy prevailed for a moment, but order was finally restored. Districts were put under governors, towns and villages under syndics,. and provincial and commercial councils were established on a broader basis. Public confidence in the maintenance of peace, at first somewhat shaken, regained its usual tone. 12,000 galley slaves, released from prison, were sent into the country to remain at their birthplaces, and kept, under heavy penalties for removal, under the constant eye of the local authorities. During the eighteen months which have elapsed since the entrance of Garibaldi, industry and Government have undergone material changes. The progress of agriculture has been slight but perceptible. Wastes have been enclosed; grass lands broken up; and pastures converted into orchards; vineyards have been planted and fresh gardens laid out; new and higher prices are asked and given for land. The judicial administration, both civil and criminal, has been improved by the institution of new courts and the introduction of new judges. The ends of justice are too often defeated by the reluctance of timid prosecutors to appear against the accused;
 904 "Great insecurity continues to prevail in the province of Capitanata. There are several bands of brigands in that province who keep the country in a state of terror, and successfully elude the pursuit of the troops. Reinforcements have been sent, and a new and active general appointed to the command. "Most exaggerated reports of brigandage throughout the country generally are industriously and perseveringly spread at the present time, with the obvious view of causing alarm and disgust. Brigandage, no doubt, exists on a large scale, and as yet has met no serious check in the Capitanata; but in other provinces, at all events up to this time, that scourge is not at all what it was last year, and in many provinces it does not exist at all. So far as I can learn, the Calabrias are undisturbed, and the Abruzzi the same; these have usually been the most disturbed provinces. In the Abruzzi they are now expecting an invasion of adventurers, who are organizing, without, as is believed, hindrance or molestation, at Tivoli, in the Roman states. "The reactionary agents here are busy, not only in spreading alarming reports, but in endeavouring to seduce and corrupt the Neapolitan soldiers, who now in considerable numbers are embodied and serving in Italian regiments in these provinces; I am, however, assured that these soldiers are behaving exceedingly well, and that the attempts of these agents meet with no success. "There continues to be great discontent in Naples, and undiminished jealousy of Northern Italians; still, in many respects, there is progress and material improvement. It cannot be doubted that commerce is largely increasing; British shipping at Naples during the first three months of this year, as compared with the first three months of the years 1859, 1860, and 1861, shows the following results:— 905 
 
 "British vessels entered during first quarter: 
 Vessels. Tonnage. 
 1859 51 15,925 
 1860 62 21,646 
 1861 57 20,347 
 1862 93 34,710 "The custom-house is inadequate in size to contain the increased quantity of goods now landed, and a large area on the outside has been covered in with zinc roofing to afford temporary shelter for such goods. "People have no difficulty in finding work, trade generally is good, and furthermore employment is largely given by the municipality in building and other works in different parts of the town. House-rent and provisions of all kinds have risen in price. "I hear no complaints of distress or want of work at the various ports where there are Vice-Consuls, and believe commercial affairs there, as here, are going on prosperously." 906 907 908 909 910
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he wished to explain that the words which he had used in debate on a previous evening did not fairly deserve the construction which ap-
 971
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he had received a copy of the Bill in question, bat it, had not yet been considered by the Indian Council, and he was therefore unable to state at present whether it would be sanctioned or not.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  replied, that the revision of the medical establishment for India awaited the Report of the Government of India, which was expected very shortly. The Royal Warrant required a service in India of twenty years, in any rank, to qualify a staff or Regimental Surgeon for the rank of Surgeon Major. The rule having been found productive of hardship in individual cases, it was determined by Her Majesty's Government that a period of two years (the period allowed under the furlough rules to count as service for pension) should be allowed to reckon as part of the period qualifying for promotion to the rank of Surgeon Major, in addition to all leave taken in India. The grades of Principal and Deputy Inspector General, and Inspector General of Hospitals were of recent date as respected the Indian service. The future organization of the medical department of that service would receive the fullest consideration.
 MR. G. W. HOPE  said, the landowners objected to the parochial schools being made stipendiaries of the Government.
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, he did not rise for the purpose of answering the question of the hon. and learned Member for Southward (Mr. Locke), because he considered it superfluous to do so; but the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of' the Exchequer began his speech, by stating that he deprecated these discussions; but who had been more ready than the Chancellor of the Exchequer both with his tongue and with his pen to raise discussions as to the internal affairs of other countries; neither would he follow the hon. Member for Peterborough (Mr. Whalley) in the discussion of the theological bearings of the question, for that hon. Member would have the opportunity of discussing them at greater length on the 8th of May, when he designed to submit to the House his Motion on the subject of Maynooth. The hon. Baronet the Member for Dundalk (Sir G. Bowyer) and the hon. Member for the King's County (Mr. Hennessy) would then have the opportunity of replying to the hon. Gentleman's argu-
 953 prefets prefet 954 constitutionnel Patrie 955
 MR. WHALLEY  rose to order. He thought it was not in order for the hon. I Gentleman to read names which might compromise the parties.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, as to Catholics to whom the hon. Member had alluded, that they were not open to the charge of pretending to support civil and religious liberty merely for electioneering purposes, or that they had deserted their party on this Italian question. He believed they had always acted in accordance with their avowed principles. The natural place of the Catholic Members was in opposition
 933
 MR. STANSFELD  said, that in his opinion the arguments used in the course pf the debate had been rather one-sided. There were two questions to be considered —the one the condition of Italy, the other the Italian policy of Her Majesty's Government. As to the former of these questions, the remarks of the hon. Baronet the Member for Duudalk (Sir G. Bowyer), who raised the discussion, had been somewhat Vague respecting the unsatisfactory and unsettled condition of certain provinces of Naples, and of the rigours and excesses of martial law. Those statements had been replied to by the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs in a speech full of accurate information, and delivered in a tone of manly sympathy for the Italian people that was creditable alike to himself and to the Government. The hon. Baronet who opened the debate found fault with the Government because their policy was inconsistent with the principle of non-intervention, upon which it professed to be founded. The hon. Baronet, no doubt, would desire to bring about political changes in this country which, rightly or not, he might believe would mean a change from non-intervention, with the moral influence of this country on the side of the King of Italy, and against Austria and the Pope, to nonintervention with the moral influence of this country marring the destinies of the Kingdom of Italy and upholding the cause of Austria and the Pope. For himself, he accepted non-intervention in good faith as the real foreign policy of this country, and after the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer he thought he should be justified in making a few remarks upon the subject. He would, in the first instance, meet the hon. Baronet by saying that non-intervention did not mean indifference, nor even neutrality, for to hold that opinion would be equivalent to a negation of all foreign policy, and a conclusion alike impossible and unworthy for this country to adopt. If it neither meant indifference nor neutrality, a policy based upon non-intervention could not consist in its profession as a bare fact or a rule to
 956 957 per fas et nefas 958
 MR. BLAKE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, What arrangements have been made with regard to the position of the Medical Officers of the late East India Company's Army on amalgamation with the Queen's Forces; whether it is still intended that the term "Service in India," used throughout the warrant of the 13th day of January, 1860, should be restricted to actual residence in India, exclusive of leave; and whether the Senior Medical Officers of Her Majesty's Indian Army will be considered entitled to promotion to the rank of Principal and Deputy Inspector General and Inspector General of Hospitals, as heretofore, or were these
 856
 MR. SPEAKER  informed the hon. Member for Southward that he was out of order in his remarks.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member is not in order in reading extracts which are comments upon debates in this House.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that while he would congratulate the hon. Gentleman upon the ingenuity with which he had selected the documents from which he had ventured to quote, he could not avoid remarking that it was not usual for a Minister to refer to despatches which had not been laid before Parliament, and to which, therefore, lion. Members had not had access. He desired to follow the hon. Gentleman into what had formed the main portion of his speech —the material progress of Italy—and he could conceive no statements more diametrically opposed to facts than the statements of the hon. Gentleman. He should avoid the example which he had condemned in the hon. Gentleman, and therefore he should quote from no documents which were not official. He should take as his guide the Board of Trade returns, which gave an authentic view of our past and present commercial relations with the different States of Italy. Those returns, which had only within a few days been laid before them, gave; the details of exports from the United Kingdom to the various parts of Italy during the last two years. From those documents it appeared that for the year 1860 the total value of merchandise exported from the United Kingdom to Sardinia was £265,714, and
 911 Daily News 912 913 f f f f f f f f f "The continued rise in the value of landed property in the Papal States of late years is very remarkable, but still it does not seem to have reached its limit. Agriculture is undoubtedly making considerable progress. There is a marked 1and progressive amelioration in the finances of this country." 914 915 f ultimatum 916 "I know nothing of this result of universal suffrage except that it requires 60 battalions to maintain it—a Government said to be established by universal consent. There must here be some great error; we must change either our acts or our principles. We must ascertain once more, and once for all, from the Neapolitans whether they will have us, 'Yes, or No.' I can comprehend that the Italians have a right to make war on those who wish to retain German rule in Italy but; because Italians, while remaining Italians, will not unite themselves with us; I say that we have no right to send bttalions to shoot them down, unless, once for all, we mean to adopt the principles and the name of Bomba, who bombarded Palermo and Messina." 917 The Times The Times The Times "Though I wrote to you so lately as yesterday, events of such importance are occurring as to render it necessary to trouble you with another letter to-day. 'Brigandage' is in every one's mouth; and though undoubtedly some of the worst cha racters are enrolled in its ranks, it cannot be regarded otherwise, I think, than as the expression of a very general discontent and disappointment. The consequences are Vacillation, desperation, and disorder, and a fearful looking forward to the future. First, let me give you the gleanings of such official papers as I have been permitted to see." The Times "But it is the old story; the strength of these men is in division and flight; they are concealed or tolerated by the inhabitants, meet again, strike a blow, and so on, round the circle." The Times The Times 918 The Times The Times Contemporaneo The Times Contemporaneo 919 The Times 920
 MR. HENNESSY  rose to order. He protested against such an attack being made upon a noble Lord who had at one time been a Member of that House.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he was willing to give the hon. Baronet the Member for Dundalk (Sir G. Bowyer) credit for the manner in which he had brought forward this question, and for the temper which he had displayed; and he did not rise for the purpose of speaking upon the question after the crushing speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, which appeared to him to have entirely disposed of it. Ha rose rather for the purpose of asking a question. Upon the numerous occasions, when the affairs of Italy had been discussed in that House, there was one thing which had been always wanting, and tint was the expression of any opinion upon the part of those hon. Members who sat upon the front Opposition bench. Day after day hon. Gentlemen had for years past occupied themselves with carping at the foreign policy of the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government, and it would be in the recollection of hon. Members that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Bucks and the late Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs had at the commencement of last session more especially indulged in that course, he should like to know what policy hon. Gentlemen opposite would pursue upon this question
 951
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, the hon. and learned Member opposite (Mr. Locke) seemed surprised that Catholic Members of that House should wish to see the present Government come to grief. Now,
 959 960 961 962 The Times 963 Murmurs 964
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he should postpone the Motion on the subject of the distress in Ireland standing in his name; but he wished at the same time to call the attention of the Chief Secretary for Ireland to the fact that twenty-five deaths from starvation had lately taken place in that country.
 MR. O'BRIEN  remarked, that the interest taken in this question was not so much caused by any particular regard for the liberty of the people of Rome as by an impression that the annihilation of the temporal power of the Pope would tend to produce some religious change in Italy. But he believed the maintenance of the temporal power of Rome was necessary to prevent the head of the Catholic Church from becoming the minion either of France, Austria, Spain, or any other political Power. He would, therefore, in every possible way, maintain a Power he thought necessary. But they knew that Roman Catholics had established republics on the American continent; and he fully accepted all the great principles of civil liberty. The Emperor of the French was the real arbiter of the temporal power of the Papacy; and as long as Pio Nono lived, he had a strong idea that a French garrison would always be seen in Rome.
 MR. SMOLLETT  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India Whether he has received a copy of an Act, intituled "The Indian Contracts Bill," now pending before the Legislative Council of the Governor General of India; and whether he is prepared to sanction this measure in its present shape if passed by that body?
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, that on a recent great occasion—that on which Italian unity might be said to have been proclaimed in the House—ho expressed an opinion, which he still maintained, that it would be well for the friends of Italy to look towards the future, not in too jubilant a spirit, not confident in the belief that the difficulties of Italy were over, but conscious that they were just beginning. It was with the nation as with the individual— I when the responsibilities of life arrived, great difficulties had always to be encountered. The question was, whether Italy had, under the circumstances, risen to the level of her responsibilities. He was of opinion that there was nothing in late events in Italy to call for any interference on the part of that House. The hon. Baronet (Sir G. Bowyer) who introduced the Motion entirely failed to make good his case; for the "facts" which he brought forward were mostly unattested, and would certainly not justify the intervention of England. There was some truth in the reproach of the French Minister, that France had spent her blood and treasure in the cause of Italy, and had got very little gratitude in return. On the other hand, England had got much credit from Italy for doing nothing at all. This arose from the perception on the part of the Italians that our conduct towards them was entirely unselfish. The commercial interest of England in the Italian question was somewhat remote, and her interest in the movement undoubtedly sprang from that sympathy which, he trusted, England would always bestow on the rise of liberal institutions and the establishment of independent nations. Unfortunately, and most unjustly, the action of Her Majesty's Government, limited as it had been, and unaccompanied
 931 932
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he wished to inquire whether the right hon. Baronet was aware of the fact that one of Bray's traction engines had passed up Eaton Square at eight o'clock that morning, making a great noise, and frightening horses?
 MR. LOWE  said, he thought it rather hard that he should be called on to answer questions arising out of charges which he had never made. To suppose that the heads of the Education Department would continue in the service of the Committee of the Privy Council any gentleman who reported otherwise than truthfully the condition of schools which came under their observation, was to bring a far heavier charge against his noble Friend and himself than was implied in the question as regarded these Inspectors of Roman Catholic Schools themselves.
 MR. SLANEY  said, he would have hardly risen to address the House but for the fact that he was, perhaps, the only representative present who had been within the last two months in Italy, where he was gratified to see on all sides the most conclusive signs of improvement and growing prosperity. It was not necessary for him to say a word in defence of the Government of Italy, or of the great departed Statesman (Count Cavour) who had done so much to restore liberty to his native land. From all the information that he had been, able to collect in the country itself, he was led to conclude that the statements made that evening by hon. Gentlemen opposed to the policy of the King of Italy were great exaggerations of the real facts. He had no doubt of the sincerity of the hon. Members who put forward those accounts; but they were deceived. With respect to Sicily, he had visited several different parts of it within the last six weeks or two months; and in all quarters —Palermo, Messina, and elsewhere—he heard constantly repeated statements of the great happiness felt by the inhabitants in consequence of the recent changes. Though, doubtless, there were disturbances in the interior, owing to the banditti, who every now and then molested travellers, yet there was a concurrence of testimony by the most intelligent and respectable persons that, on the whole, things were fast improving; and those persons felt no doubt, that under the new rule there would be great progress both in agriculture and commerce. From Sicily he went to Naples, and in the latter country also he found that there was every prospect of very great progress being made after the lapse of that time which must necessarily elapse before things could become settled. It had been his intention to proceed by land from Naples to Rome; but finding on inquiry that on the Roman side every obstacle was offered to those who wished to make use of the railways by which the greater part of the journey by land might be performed, he felt obliged to go to sea by Civita Vecchia. The state of agriculture in the Campagna was more backward than anything he had ever seen, and in the Papal States he met beggars in abundance. In Upper Italy improvements were going on, and the people were looking forward to Italy becoming one great kingdom, united for the first time. Tuscany had always been like a garden;
 921
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I confess it appears to me there is a great deal of force in the objection which has been taken by various hon. Members on this side of the House—at all events, in the abstract—to the periodical
 934 935 936 937 938
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : My hon. and learned Friend does not admit that, but he quotes from Italian newspapers language the most congenial to his feelings—language denouncing, in terms satisfactory even to him, the conduct of the Italian Government and the institutions which exist in Italy. Does he not himself thereby produce a proof of the existence of a free press in Italy? In the halcyon days upon which his memory fondly dwells would it have been possible for those who wanted to exhibit the real state of Italy to take their evidence from Opposition papers? My hon. Friend the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs has referred to other proofs of the happy change which has been effected in Italy. He has cited, in addition to a free press and a free Parliament, the extension of education and the increase of trade; and he made another citation, which I did think would, through the medium of his professional feelings, have touched my hon. and learned Friend. If my hon. and learned Friend could not admit any of the things I have enumerated to be evidence of a sound or an improving state of affairs, I certainly did expect that we should hear some expression of sympathy from him when my hon. Friend the Under Secretary referred to that which is, perhaps, not leas important than them all—namely, the fact that Italy now has a body of judges who cannot be removed at the will of the Government. But all these things are, in the sight of my hon. and learned Friend, as nothing. Perhaps he regards them as evidences of slavery. We, on the other hand, are accustomed to consider them as demonstrations of freedom. When an Englishman goes abroad among those with whom my hon. and learned Friend has the closest sympathy—those, for example, who are much about the Court of Rome—he is often told that there is a great deal of
 939
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : My hon. And learned Friend denies it, but what is the denial worth? Surely my hon. and learned Friend is not going to resume the subject to-morrow. To-night is the great annual festival, or, I should rather say, the night of doleful commemoration on which he sings his dirges and requiems for the late Government in Italy, and launchers his invectives against the present state of things. It is, therefore, the night on which, if he had intended to say anything about two-thirds of the Italian people, he ought to have said it. My hon. and learned Friend may have omitted something from his speech; but if so, all I can say is that the omission was a grievous one and I am sorry for it. With respect to the other third of the population, upon which my hon. and learned Friend laid great and exclusive stress, I admit that we ought to be able to show that things are improving. Bad Government, especially when long continued, must undoubtedly have a disorganizing effect, and order cannot be restored after even the most beneficial revolution within so short a time as has elapsed since the recent change in Italy; but we may fairly be asked for some evidences and indications of improvement. Without adding to the lucid and ample details which have been submitted by my hon. Friend the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs, I will call the attention of the House to two important points. One allegation of my hon. and learned Friend is, that the entire population of Southern Italy is averse to its union with the kingdom of Italy. As a conclusive confutation of that statement, I adduce the fact of the existence of a National Guard. It is impossible that there should be a National Guard—which arms the most intelligent and most substantial portion of the population—in harmony with the Government, if there were anything like an approach to truth in the assertion of my hon. and learned Friend, that the people of Southern Italy are alienated in spirit from the Italian Government. My hon. and learned Friend is credulous enough in some things; but when he deals with an adversary, he is strong in the resources of unbelief. I wish to come to close quarters with him. I put to him this test—he says the arming of a force such as the National Guard, containing the best
 942
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Do not let me be misunderstood. I do not mean that my hon. and learned Friend has undergone a process of conversion in his own mind. What I wish to any is, that for the purposes of debate in this House he has abandoned the case as far as two-thirds of the Italian population are concerned.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I do not think my hon. and learned Friend introduced Sicily into his speech.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Then I am wrong. But when we come to the evils which my hon. and learned Friend describes, into what do they resolve themselves? Into manifestations which occur either on points near the coast, where the agency of foreigners landing from abroad is felt, or else on points near
 940
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER : Certainly not.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER : I did.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER : I deny it, at least for the debate to-night.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER : Not Sicily.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER : No; I do nothing of the kind.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, that after that intimation he would not refer to any comments upon debates in that House, but he must allude to one article commenting upon opinions that had been expressed by the noble Lord, with the object of showing the real views of the Liberal press of Turin. It was to the effect that the notification of Colonel Fantoni that measures of increased rigour would be adopted was approved by all and the only regret was that those measures were too mild; but, nevertheless, they had already yielded excellent fruits. Now, Parliament had been told that the proclamations had never been acted upon, and yet there was a Liberal newspaper, supporting the interests and expressing, in a great degree, the views of the Pied-
 866 867 868 "When we were agitating Europe and exciting it against the Bourbons of Naples, we Wanted to personify the effects of the cruelty of that horrible dynasty; we wanted to present every morning to the readers of Liberal Europe a living, palpitating; visible victim, whom the ogre Ferdinand used to devour raw at every meal. For this purpose we invented Poerio. The English and the French press excited the appetite of that great philanthropist Gladstone) who repaired to Naples to see with his own eyes this new sort of Man in an Iron Mask, lie saw him. He was moved. And, like us, he set to work to magnify the victim in order the more to irritate public opinion, and thus Poerio was created from top to toe. The real Poerio has taken seriously the Poerio whom we had been fabricating for twelve years in articles at three-halfpence a line." 869 ex animo The Times 870 871 872 plébiscite 873 874 875
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he rose in pursuance of notice, to call the attention of the House to the state of affairs in Italy. He did so, not only in the performance of his duty as a Member of that House, but also to redeem a pledge which he gave at the end of the last Session, and subsequently in a letter addressed to the First Lord of the Treasury, that when Parliament re-assembled, he would call the attention of the House and of the Government to the condition of Italy, and would likewise call the Government to account for the re-
 860 861 862 The Times 863 The Times The Times 864 865 Opinione Opinione
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, his attention was called a few days ago to the fact of a locomotive passing through a crowded part of the metropolis—not the streets mentioned by the hon. Baronet, but in the neighbourhood of Charing Cross, and of horses taking fright in consequence. A communication was immediately made by the Police to the owner of that locomotive, which turned out to be one of Bray's traction engines engaged, in carrying goods from the Docks to the Exhibition, and the proprietors at once agreed to observe the regulations of the Police, requiring them not to drive the locomotive through the streets in the daytime, and to take a less frequented route. Since the hon. Baronet had given notice of his question, he had found, on inquiry, that another locomotive had been seen passing through Grosvenor
 857 Gazette
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had not heard of the circumstance, but the order in the  Gazette
 SIR GRAHAM MONTGOMERY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he is aware of the frequent passage of locomotives through several of the thoroughfares of the metropolis, more especially in Grosvenor Place and Eaton Square; and if he considers it consistent with the safety of the public to permit of their so passing through the streets both day and night?
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, When the account of the Gross Income and Expenditure up to the 31st of March, 1862, will be laid on the table of the House?
 SIR JOHN ACTON  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education, Whether he has reason to suppose that the Inspectors of Roman Catholic schools fail to report the actual condition of the Schools inspected by them?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he fished to ask the noble Viscount at the head of the Government a question as to the course of business which had been previously announced with respect to the Re-revised Code of Education. The right hon. Gentleman the Vice President of the Committee of Council of Education had promised to lay the Report on that subject on the table before the holidays, They were now about to adjourn for the holidays, and he desired to know whether it was probable that that Report would be laid on the table that night. The further progress of the Committee stood for the 5th of May, which was, practically only one week after the, re-assembling of the House. As very little, time would, intervene to enable hon. Members to consider that Report, he submitted that it would be desirable to postpone the, progress of the measure for some time longer.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he rose to ask, When the Returns ordered the other night relative to the Thames Embankment will be laid on the table?
 SIR JOSEPH PAXTON  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, If there is any truth in the rumour that the traffic over the Chelsea Suspension Bridge was restricted by the Police on account of some defects in the structure; and if the Bridge will furnish safe accommodation for the traffic arising from the Exhibition and the Royal Agricultural Show shortly to be held in Battersea Park?
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  in reply to the statement that twenty-five deaths had occurred from starvation, begged to say that such was positively not the case. Unfortunately, a number of deaths had occurred in Ireland, but he was prepared to show that the hon. Gentleman had been misinformed as to the cause; and that those unhappy circumstances were not to be attributed to the positive want of food.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the Report to which the right hon. Baronet alluded, would be laid on the table in the course of that evening, and would be delivered to hon. Members to-morrow. With regard to their further proceedings in the matter, there would be ample time, on the reassembling of Parliament after the Easter recess, to make other arrangements if they should be found necessary.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I rise, Sir, to move that the House at its rising should adjourn until Monday the 28th.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I think the hon. Member for Dungarvan (Mr. Maguire) when he reads to-morrow the words he hag spoken to-night, may, on cooler reflection, regret some of the expressions he has let fall with respect to a Sovereign in alliance with our own. There is in this House perfect freedom of speech; every hon. Member is entitled by the rules and privileges of Parliament to express, in any manner he thinks consistent with the decorum that ought to prevail in our debates, his opinion of the acts of any foreign Sovereigns. But I think the hon. Gentleman, on reflection, will feel that his zeal for the head of his Church, though natural, has led him somewhat too far in his expressions. The vehemence and passion with which he has spoken remind me of a story of a North American Indian, who, coming to England, attended one of the courts of justice and heard a trial. He was not familiar with the English language; but when asked by a friend what was his opinion of the proceedings, he said it was quite clear which of two lawyers who had spoken was in the right. One, who went into a violent passion, was evidently in the wrong; the other, who kept his temper, must have been in the right. Now, the vehemence and passion the hon. Gentleman displayed in the course of his remarks have clearly shown an internal consciousness that he was defending a bad cause, and endeavouring to make violence and passion the substitutes for argument. The hon.
 965 "Victrix causa Deis placuit, sed victa Catoni." 966 967 968 969 970
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  replied, that it was intended to construct a fort behind the breakwater, not upon it, as originally designed. The foundation was not in the nature of a breakwater, consisting of stones thrown down, but there were walls which would be nearly perpendicular, and the plan of the fort was in accordance with the recommendations of the Defence Commission.
 GENERAL PEEL : In the notice which I gave of my intention to ask the Secretary for War, if any decision had been arrived at in regard to the Reserved, Fund, I purposely reminded the House that its attention had been specially called to this fund, in the Report of the Committee on Military Organization; and, I did so, in the hope that hon. Members would refer to the report and the evidence on which it was founded, for the purpose of obtaining some information about it. On looking at it, however, I do not think that either the Report or the evidence conveys a sufficiently strong impression of the importance of this fund as affecting the system of purchase in the army. The Committee express no opinion of their own as to the propriety of continuing this fund, they leave it entirely to the decision of the House. They quote the opinion of the then Secretary for War, Mr. Herbert; but as there may be many Members who have not read the Report, and others who having read it may have forgotten it, I will take the liberty of reading three short paragraphs from page 12 of the Report. "The Secretary of State contends, that in practice this fund is of eminent advantage both to the army and to the public. He argues, that it stimulates promotion, and relieves the dead weight without any charge to the public. He admits, however, that Parliament, in the strict sense, is not cognizant of the existence of this fund: it is not voted; no account is rendered; no constitutional checks are imposed; the Secretary of State may apply it to any purpose he thinks fit; and Mr. Herbert says "that in principle there is no doubt the existence of this fund is wrong." Your Committee have endeavoured to discharge their duty by calling the attention of the House of: Commons especially to this subject, It will be for the House to determine whether a large sum of money, raised by the sale of the commissions, shall be applied even to useful purposes at the: present moment, without Parliamentary sanction or direct Parliamentary knowledge. If this Reserve Fund be permitted to continue for the sake of the useful purposes to which it may be applied, at least an account of the receipt and expenditure should be laid before Parliament every year, when the Army Estimates are presented; and this account should be submitted year by year to an independent official audit." 975 976 977 Q. 3920. "Your Royal Highness, from the answer which you have just given, would raise a doubt whether that gift of £100 a year is founded in equity, or not?—A. I never could understand why it was given." Q. 4007. "But, it is now clearly only a matter of indulgence to the officer, arid he has no right to this allowance on retirement" —A. (Duke of Cambridge:) "I think, that if an officer had not misconducted himself, and did not get it, he would consider that he was an injured man; I should consider that he had as much right to it as that" Q. 6800. "But every officer you compel to purchase, will afterwards have the power of selling, will he not?" "And so also will officers who do not purchase." 978 Q. 6801. "Not until after a certain number of years' service? —A. Yes, they may sell, and get a hundred pounds for each year they have served." "I will take the case of an ensign serving for four years, who bought his commission, and the case of an ensign to whom a commission was given, also serving for tour years; their qualifications and services being exactly the same. The difference therefore is, that the one officer who has purchased his commission receives only £72 a year for his four years' service, and the officer to whom a commission is given, receives £190 a year?—Certainly, there is no doubt of that." "That is the accurate state of the account between the two?—Yes; that is the practical working of that system." 979 "The practice, therefore, of paying sums exceeding the regulation price must be considered to be an accompaniment of the purchase system, which it appears impossible to prevent." "The regulation price of commissions is a fiction, and the large sums which officers are compelled to pay for promotion aggravate the evil effects of the system." 980 981 982 "GENERAL ORDER, "No. 807. "Horse Guards, S.W., 19th February, 1862. "With regard to the addition of twelve non-purchase Regiments of the Line to the British Army, His Royal Highness the General Commanding-in-Chief is pleased, with the concurrence of the Right Honourable the Secretaries of State for War and for India, to establish the following regulations:— "1. In non-purchase Corps of the Line, no Officers can sell their Commissions. "Those who enter from the Indian service retain their claim to Indian pension, and all others are entitled, with Her Majesty's approval, to retire on full or half-pay, according to the terms of Her Majesty's Warrants of the 14th October, 1858, and 28th March, 1861. "2. An officer joining a purchase Regiment from the Indian Service will be placed on the same footing in all respects with the rest of the officers of tint Regiment. "Having forfeited all claim to Indian pension, he will become entitled to retire on full pay or half-pay, under the Warrants above specified. "Non-purchase Officers of such Regiments have the privilege of receiving, subject to the consent in each case of the General Commanding-in-Chief, and of the Secretary of State for War (which is
 983 984 985
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : Sir, there are two questions to be considered with reference to this fund—one is the mode in which it is created, and the other the mode in which it is appropriated. The point which principally attracted the notice of the Committee upon military organization, and to which the right hon. and gallant Gentleman has especially called attention, is the existence of the fund and its appropriation. Undoubtedly, as he has correctly stated, grave constitutional objections may be urged against the existence of a fund not voted by Parliament, but arising from the sale of commissions, and subject to the discretion of the Executive Government. It is to that part of the case that my attention has been principally directed. An account was, for the first time I believe, laid upon the table last Session, showing how the fund had been appropriated, and the balance in the hands of the Government; and a similar account will be shortly laid upon the table, and will exhibit the annual statement since the last account was presented. With regard to the question of an independent audit, which was adverted to in the Report of the Committee, it is clear that this fund could not be audited by the Commissioners of Audit; but I should he quite ready to assent to any mode of auditing it which may be likely to meet with the approbation of this House. Considering the purposes to which the fund is applicable, as stated at the foot of the return on the table, it appeared to me that these purposes are generally advantageous, and I think the right hon. and gallant Gen-
 986
 MR. PEEL  said, he had had no notice of the Question.
 COLONEL GILPIN  said, that as to purchase in the Indian army being illegal, it was sanctioned by a minute of the Indian Council. It was perfectly right not to give allowances for expenses out of pocket to captains of companies who had ceased to hold commands. But the Government might consider the propriety of increasing the amount of bonus on retirement to certain officers who had passed the best part of their lives in the service.
 MR. COWPER  said, that the balance had been reduced to £65,000, which would quickly be exhausted.
 MR. COWPER  explained, that the term "approaches" last year referred to the
 993 nil
 MR. COWPER  said, that a tunnel under the existing road was not part of the original plan, and he feared it could not now be made without considerable expense. Perhaps the object of the hon. Member could be accomplished when the embankment should be constructed.
 MR. COWPER  said, there was no doubt that the whole of the money voted by Parliament would be ultimately required, although it might not all be paid away before the 3lst of March next?
 MR. COWPER  said, that it was intended that the sum of £2,500 should be spent within the current financial year. There was a sum voted last year which might not be so expended, but he thought that it would be inexpedient to take from the Government the power of spending it if an opportunity were offered of settling with any of these leaseholders.
 MR. COWPER  replied, that there was a sum of £65,000 in the Exchequer, but that might be diminished to morrow or next day.
 MR. COWPER  said, he did not see that the voting of the sum of £15,000, in addition to the £60,000 voted last year, would alter the position of the House towards the Motion of the hon. Member, and he could not consent to postpone the Vote. The estimate of £200,000 was made
 995
 MR. COWPER  said, it had been thought better to divide the contracts, and to intrust the foundation to one contractor and the superstructure to another. The former contract had already been entered into, and the work was in progress; but the difficulties in the way of laying the foundations were great. It was necessary to sink to a depth of eighteen feet, in order to get a solid basis, and that portion of the work would, therefore, cost about £20,000. Matters were nearly ready for entering into a contract with regard to the superstructure, and the sum proposed to be voted was as much as was likely to be required in the course of the financial year. He would remind the Committee that when a building of the kind was once commenced it was very desirable on economical and other grounds to push it forward rapidly. He did not remember the passage alluded to by the noblo Lord (Lord R. Montagu), but he believed balances in the Exchequer were at least as safe and well looked after as money anywhere else. Certainly, he had never heard of any instance where they had been improperly disposed of. The Committee was perfectly safe in voting the money now asked for, as it was appropriated to that particular purpose, and if not applied before the 31st March next, would then be returned to the general fund, and the department would cease to exercise any control over it. Mr. Scott's estimate was one made in the ordinary way for a building with fittings, but not with furniture, It had been made on plans very carefully prepared in reference to the amount of accommodation required; but of course he could not pledge himself that the amount of £200,000 would be adhered to exactly. An estimate differed from an account, and it depended on the price of the labour market, on the
 998
 MR. PEEL  said, that no doubt the balance to be handed over at the end of the financial year would be any sum which remained unexpended, whether it accrued from the sum voted in that or in previous years. That year the balances remaining in hand were very much smaller than they had been in previous years, and the whole sum deducted from the Estimates on that account was only 50,000. As to the particular Vote before the Committee, the Government had been informed, that though there was a large balance in hand, yet that the sum actually spent in the
 1000
 MR. COWPER  said, it was necessary to alter some of the class-rooms, and to provide further cases for the museum. The Moral Philosophy class-rooms were altered last year, and the present Vote was for the Botanical class-rooms.
 MR. PEEL  said, there was no unwillingness to grant the desired accommodation, the only difficulty having arisen from the want of sufficient room in the promises occupied by the Registry of the Probate Court. On the recent enlargement of the premises, however, the judge of the Probate Court had made a rule permitting the public to consult and take notes of ancient wills under due regulations, and in the Estimates provision had been made for the necessary staff to assist the public in the search.
 MR. PEEL  said, that the sum available for the present year was £23,000. The cost of the Principal Registry of the Court of Probate and of the district registries in the country would be £7,800. The greater part of the district registries were leased by the. Government for five years, and these leases all contained a clause that the Government should have the power to purchase the premises at a certain sum. It was found by experience that in some of the towns it was advisable to build premises. It was proposed to purchase houses at Manchester, Chester, Lewes, Exeter, and Taunton, for which a sum of £5,600 would be wanted, and to build, during the coming year, registries at Manchester, Wakefield, and Oxford.
 MR. NEWDKGATE  said, he wished to inquire in what manner the fees connected with the court and its registries were applied, and if they were not available for the purposes of the Vote?
 MR. PEEL  said, that the Treasury had the power to levy the fees by stamps. Provision was made last year to pay the officers by salaries instead of fees, and all the fees were carried to the Exchequer.
 MR. COWPER  said, there was at present a balance of £12,000 unexpended. There were forty district registries in various parts of the country, the rents of which amounted to £1,800, and the repairs to £1,000. Considerable works and repairs were necessary for the offices of the Probate Court in London. A house had been taken on a lease in Knight Rider Street to enable one provision of the Probate Act to be carried out—namely, that persons not of the legal profession should be enabled to go before the registrars and prove wills. The whole arrangement of the Probate Court and its offices was, however, unsatisfactory; because the buildings were but temporary. It was intended by the Courts of Justice, Bill to have provided permanently for the Probate Registry elsewhere; but the present rather inferior accommodation must now be continued. No more money, however, would be spent on the buildings in Doctors' Commons than would be absolutely necessary.
 MR. COWPER  said, he agreed it was always desirable to give as much information in detail as possible, but in that instance the arrangement of the balances rendered it impossible to give more than was given.
 MR. PEEL  said, the building had been erected by trustees named under Act of Parliament, and they, not the Government, were responsible for an excess. It had been estimated that the building would be completed for £24,000, but in the beginning of the year a representation had been made to the Government that £26,500 would be required. He regretted that such was the case but he might add that the building was finished, and was admirably adapted for its purpose.
 MR. PEEL  said, as some hon. Gentleman might be taken by surprise if the Vote were taken that night, and one hon. Member who was not present had given notice of an Amendment, he, would if it were for the convenience of the Committee consent to the Vote being postponed.
 MR. COWPER  said, he regretted very much that it should be necessary to ask the Committee for any money in addition to the original Vote. The fact was, Mr. Pennethorne's estimate had been made in February of last year, and the Vote was taken at the end of August. It was necessary that the work should be completed before the opening of the Academy Exhibition on the 1st of May, and very little time was consequently disposable for the alterations. According to the practice of the office, nothing could be done until after the Vote was passed, and when the Vote was passed it was too late to make such specification as was requisite for a contract in gross. In order that the work might be done in time, it was necessary to have it done by day-work, and not only that, but it was carried on by candle-light. A great increase of the cost had been caused in consequence of the long hours of work and the difficulties of the season, which was very inclement. Mr. Pennethorne had made several improvements in details as regarded the staircases and the entrance, and had thus obtained more space for hanging the pictures. He had also given satisfactory reasons why the actual cost had exceeded the estimate presented to the Government. If the Vote had passed at as early a period last year as the present, he believed that the excess might have been avoided. As it happened, however, the matter was beyond the control of the Government, for they did not know that there would be an excess until the work had been completed, and the expenditure already incurred. The estimate of £15,000 which Mr. Pennethorne had sent in was the closest that he could make at the time.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, he had not the slightest objection to the payment of those who had worked overtime, but he wished to point out that the Vote had been asked in 1860, at a time when only a section of the House, known as the "Janissaries" of the Government, remained behind. When the hon. Member for Surrey and himself objected that the Vote was an under-estimate, they were met by the Chief Commissioner of Works and by the
 1004
 MR. PEEL  observed that the subject of pier accomodation in Holyhead harbour had been a source of difficulty and embarrassment to the Government, who, though they might not appear to have proceeded with all the desired alacrity, nevertheless had done as much as it was: in their power to do. Some years ago it; was thought that the harbour would be used not only by vessels passing between England and Ireland, but by Transatlantic steamers, and permanent stone piers were proposed to be built in a position to allow vessels of any size to go alongside of thorn. A plan was accordingly prepared which I would have cost £500,000. It was approved by the House of Commons, a Vote on account was taken, and a contract was entered into, though within a month afterwards notice was given to the contractor not to proceed under it. Since then circumstances had altered. It was found that no Transatlantic steamers went to Holyhead harbour; the captains of nil the Dublin Steam Packet Company's steamers preferred the position of the temporary pier to that assigned for the permanent stone piers, and the professional officers of the Admiralty suggested that vessels lying alongside the latter might in certain states of weather be exposed to risk. Under those circumstances the Government came to the conclusion that it would not be desirable to complete the permanent stone piers, and turned their attention to see what might be done elsewhere for the convenience of
 1006 s 1007
 MR. PEEL  explained, that the error pointed out by the noble Lord merely reduced the apparent balance, and that it had no bearing upon the actual Vote.
 MR. PEEL  said, that he would remind the noble Lord that no penalties could be exacted from the company for over-time caused by storms or fogs.
 MR. PEEL  said, that, whatever the real difficulties of the question were, they would settle themselves by the change of system which had been adopted in the Estimates for the present year, those Estimates being voted not for the services of the year, but for the payments within the year. Therefore, on the 31st of March next, whatever sums wore not actually disbursed for the services of the year would have to be surrendered into the Exchequer, and the same principle as applied to the Naval and Military Estimates would he adopted. They had stated in each Estimate the amount of the balances remaining on the 28th of February, 1862. Those balances were altogether much less than those of previous years, because for a long time past the Government had been gradually reducing them. The hon. Baronet opposite seemed to suppose that in consequence of the introduction of a change of system they would spend in the current year not only all the Votes of the present year, but all the balances of previous years. He himself anticipated nothing of the sort where had always been balances from previous years, which, added to the Votes of
 1014
 MR. PEEL  said, the sums only amounted to £26,000, and they appeared in the Estimates of the Board of Works because it was thought convenient that the expenses of all the buildings under the superintendence of the Commissioners of Public Works in Ireland should be included in one Estimate.
 MR. PEEL  explained that the Vote was rendered necessary, in consequence of certain fittings upon the occasion of Her Majesty's visit to Ireland.
 MR. PEEL  said, there was no authority to apply that balance.
 MR. MOFFATT  said, the Vote comprised a charge of £4,000 for light-houses at Ceylon and in Australia. Those lighthouses were for the benefit of trade in those places, and he could not see why those charges should be borne by the revenue of this country.
 MR. PEEL  said, that all these roads had been constructed (wholly or partially) out of public money. The annual cost of maintaining them was £21,500, which was in part defrayed by the annual contribution, voted by the House, and in part by
 1017
 MAJOR HAMILTON  said, he believed the Vote was really a saving to the country. In consequence of the grant the mails were free from tolls. A better system of management or more perfect roads could not be found. They were well described in the words of, he presumed, the Irish Gentleman, who said —
 "Had you seen these roads before they were made, "You would hold up your hands and bless General Wade."
 MR. COWPER  said, the expense of repairing these roads was formerly charged on the Consolidated Fund. That charge had by an Act of Parliament been transferred to the annual Estimates. A Commission was appointed to execute the repairs and administer the funds. That Commission would expire in 1865. He did not think the Committee would act wisely in suddenly withdrawing the grant. By doing so they might, perhaps, stop all communication, between different parts of the Highlands. It would certainly cause great inconvenience to the persons employed on the roads. He thought the Commission ought to be allowed to continue for the period allowed by law.
 MR. PEEL  said, the Privy Council had succeeded to the powers of the late Board of Health.
 MR. PEEL  said, that the Lord Privy Seal was a Member of the Cabinet, and it was of advantage to the Cabinet to have amongst their members a Minister whose time was not wholly employed with the duties of his own department. He did not think the sum proposed to be voted could be considered too much for the salary of a Cabinet Minister.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that some years ago he was Member of a Commission which inquired into the office of Lord Privy Seal, and one question which arose was whether it was desirable that the office should be maintained. It could only be defended upon the ground that in a body in which the duties were so various as those of the Cabinet it was an advantage to have a person whose time was not entirely engrossed by the duties of a laborious department. At one time the Privy Seal was a high constitutional office, and it was an historical fact that the Lord Privy Seal had been Prime Minister of
 1020
 MR. COWPER  replied, that he deemed himself responsible for the expenditure of all money which Parliament placed at his disposal. He was never disposed to shrink from that responsibility.
 MR. COWPER  said, that the business on which the firm was engaged did not properly belong to his department. They were simply employed as Parliamentary agents in procuring the passing of a private Bill. As time pressed, and as Messrs. Baxter and Co. possessed special knowledge and experience in regard to the subject, through having conducted a somewhat si-
 1021
 MR. PEEL  said, that when the hon. Gentleman complained of the sum paid to
 1023
 MR. COWPER  explained, that he had only followed the custom of the department, The issue of notices and other arduous duties connected with the passage of a Bill through Parliament did not form part of the regular business of the solicitor to the office. The work had to be performed in a short time, and as Messrs. Baxter and Co. had a large staff and every appliance for conducting the Bill, it was very natural that their services should be secured. It was most convenient to employ these gentlemen to give the notices for a Bill which would cover nearly the same ground as that of which they had previously had charge.
 MR. PEEL  said, he was informed that the business of the Commission was on the increase. By an Act of last Session the duties of the Commissioners had been made more onerous.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  remarked, that when he filled the office of Home Secretary a vacancy occurred by the death of one of the Commissioners; and, on inquiry, he found it to be the opinion of the other two that it was necessary to have the vacancy filled up.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, when the Rebecca Act was passed, a Loan was granted by the Exchequer Loan Commissioners, by which the debt on the counties was at once paid off, and the repayment of the debt was distributed over a number of years. An annuity was charged on the county rate, or revenue of the six counties, and the object of the appointment of the Superintendent was the audit of the accounts of the turnpike roads of South Wales, for the purpose of seeing that the debt was punctually discharged.
 MR. PEEL  said, he had explained last year that the item in the present Vote was for Stationery supplied by Her Majesty's Stationery Office for the Constabulary Office in Dublin, while the other item was
 1027
 MR. PEEL  said, the court was called self-supporting. Under a recent Act a certain duty was imposed upon sales effected in it; but that duty did not attach to any estates sold in the court at the time of the passing of the Act. The full amount, therefore, that would otherwise have been realized in the court had not accrued. The income of the court, however, had been diminished, for Parliament had thought proper to pass an Act last year which reduced the rate of duties chargeable in that court.
 MR. PEEL  said, the amount received during 1861 was £7,512, the whole of which had been taken into the Exchequer.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, he rose to express a hope that the Vote would be postponed, He had given notice of a Motion in reference to the enormous increase which had taken place upon the Vote. In 1842, when Ireland was in a disturbed state, the whole expense of the police force was somewhere about £440,000, and in the present year, when they were told that everything was quiet, the Vote amounted to £777,000. He should be able to show that with this enormous increase of expenditure the efficiency of the police had greatly deteriorated. He did not mean to say anything against the police as a body of men. He was merely referring to the manner in which it was endeavoured to make them a military force instead of a police force. He relied, however, on a return which he had moved for two months ago, but had not yet received, and he therefore trusted that the Vote would be postponed.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, that that was the very reason why he found fault with the force. Formerly the men were supplied with a very useful weapon, but the Government had taken it away to give them the Enfield rifle. A policeman generally used his piece to knock down persons with the butt end of it; and it was therefore absurd to spend £40,000 in giving him a weapon so delicate, that the slighest touch would derange its sighting and render it useless. He also objected to the way the men were clothed—they were made, in fact, to resemble second-rate hussars.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, he was ready to admit that when the constabulary force was first instituted it was necessary to have a military man at the head to bring it to a certain degree of order and regularity; but the force was assuming a still greater military character, and he doubted the policy of making it keep up that character. He repeated that he did not mean to say that the constabulary as a body of men had deteriorated, but they had deteriorated in respect to the discovery of crime and the performance of police duties.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, he would admit that to a certain extent the constabulary should be armed with firearms, but lie should like to see a certain portion of them armed with another sort of weapon which they might use more freely. At any rate, it was absurd, when they had an arm suitable fur them as a police, to incur increased expenditure for the purpose of giving them the Enfield rifle. With regard to the de-
 1031
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, that the sum might be accounted for by the attendance of bands at the elections. He con-
 1032
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  observed that the clause was merely a re-enactment—a return to the state of the law which preceded the Consolidation Act of last session. With the exception of Clause 4, they were additional enactments; and if it were asked why there should be additional enactments for Ireland, the answer was, that these enactments were made to meet the circumstances of the country. With regard to Clause 4, there was this difference between the proposed clause and the law of England, that in England it must be declared on oath that the tree destroyed or stolen was of the value of one shilling, whereas that proof was not required in Ireland.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, he would move that the Chairman report progress.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, he thought the presence of forty-two Members only at that hour of the night (twenty-five minutes past one) showed that the sitting ought not to continue.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, there was a sum £2,174 for furniture and fitments of Dublin Castle. As the abolition of the Lord-Lieutenancy had been once agreed to by the House, and would probably some day be carried out, he thought it unwise to expend money upon furniture.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he thought the Committee ought not to attempt to cut off the grant by a surprise, in the absence of almost every Scotch Member.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he could not understand how hon. Gentlemen could have arrived at the conclusion that Holyhead was not a useful breakwater. He could assure the Committee that during the heavy gales of wind which took place in winter the harbour was, if anything, overcrowded with vessels. He therefore begged it to be understood that, as a refuge for the merchant service, Holyhead breakwater was a most useful work. He thought his lion. Friend (Mr, Bentinck) did not quite understand what the Government proposed to do with regard to the piers. The breakwater at Holyhead, which was planned some eighteen or twenty years ago, was originally intended to accommodate a much smaller class of vessels than those which now used it; and it was only when it was completed up to a certain point it was found that there were
 1010 1011
 LORD HOTHAM  said, he had been much disappointed by the answer of the Secretary for War, and the entire absence of any explanation upon the subject under notice. That only convinced him the more that the same unwillingness to explain the nature and the application of the Reserve Fund still existed which had formerly been shown. On three different occasions he had sought unsuccessfully for information. On the first occasion the late lamented Lord Herbert said that the subject was about to be brought before a Royal Commission, and that therefore it would be better to wait. In another Session he was told that the matter was actually under inquiry; and on the next occasion that it had been inquired into, and that a Report would shortly be made. Last year a Return which he moved for as to the disposition of the fund was granted, but it gave little information on some points on which information was most required. The Secretary for War seemed to think that nobody objected to the application of the fund; but he (Lord Hotham) strongly objected to some of the purposes to which it was devoted, such, for example, as the application of a considerable proportion to the purchase of the commissions of members of Her Majesty's household.
 988 989
 LORD HOTHAM  said, he could bear testimony to the satisfactory manner in which the Commissioners discharged their duties, and expressed his opinion that there was work enough for three.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he understood that the Landed Estates Court was to have been self-supporting, and that there were even surplus funds belonging to it. He wanted to know, therefore, why a Vote of £11,472 was now asked?
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  inquired, whether the right hon. Gentleman could tell him what amount of duty had been received in the court. He understood that it had reached several thousand pounds.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  wished to ask if any change had taken place in convict labour. The amount asked for transport service was twice what it was last year.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of the Treasury, For some information with regard to an item in the last financial accounts presented to the House. He would not have troubled the right hon. Gentleman had he not already sought for information from the best financial authorities on his own side of the House, and failed to obtain it. There appeared, both on the debit and credit side of the account, the following entry:— "To balance due from Messrs. Duncan and Hutchinson, £2,212." He had compared all the financial accounts for eleven or twelve years buck, and found the same entry in them; he supposed, therefore, that the money had been due to the State for more than eleven years, and had never yet been received. In the thirty-ninth report of the Woods and Forests he found the same sum entered as an "available balance;" and some time ago there appeared a note in the accounts stating that Messrs. Duncan and Hutchinson were "late receivers at Glasgow ' Would the Secretary of the Treasury ex plain the nature of the entry?
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  stated, he would repeat his Question on Friday.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he understood that the Vote of £173,000 passed last year was to include all charges for the approaches to the bridge. As the gross sum already expended upon the work up to the 31st of December, 1861, was £54,748, there ought to be a balance remaining of £118,252. He did not see why the additional Vote was necessary.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, that a balance of £8,000 remained over from 1859–60, and a balance of £5,000 from 1860–1. He wished to know whether that balance had been all expended?
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he wished to remind the Committee of the opinion expressed by the Committee of which Mr. Laing was a member, against the system of balances which when, drawn into the Exchequer might be paid out again for any purpose foreign from that for which they had been originally voted. He should be glad to discover the purpose for which the Vote of £15,000 under consideration was demanded. It appeared from the Estimates that though the sum of £30,000 had been voted last year, and the sum of £20,000 the year before, for the Foreign Office, only £3,100 had been expended of the entire amount. For what object, then, could the additional sum be required?
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, the right hon. Gentleman appeared to forget that the whole of the sums hitherto voted wore unexpended; and that the balances now in the Exchequer for the purpose were £118,000.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, there was a balance of £3,000 on the Vote of 1859–60, and of £6,870 on the Vote of 1861–2, both of which sums were unexpended and available for the present year. He wished to know why a Vote of £327 was required that year for Marischal College?
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, that in point of fact the Admiralty never had any estimates of any kind submitted to it. The engineer on the spot repotted that so many hundred tons of stone had been thrown into the sea, and then the Controller of the Navy wrote a cheque for so much money. He might refer to the evidence of Colonel Greene to show that no sufficient check was exercised over the expenditure. It appeared to him that there was a clerical error in the Estimates, and he
 1008
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, they had been informed last year that the total estimate for the work was £24,000; £19,000 had been already voted, and £5,000 had been paid towards its erection out of the Dargan Fund. He should therefore like to know on what grounds they were now asked for £2,500 additional?
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he
 1002
 MR. AYRTON  would suggest that before going on with the Vote the engineers' report should be before the Committee.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he wanted to know whether it was intended to frame the Appropriation Act in such a manner as would put an end to the question. If the Appropriation Act were to he drawn in respect of the Civil Service supplies as for the military services, it would combine not only every balance, but each item would be surrendered at the end of the year. If all the balances, including old balances, were surrendered, the financial statement next year would present a better appearance by five millions.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he hoped they would receive a clear explanation on the question of the balances. It ought to be brought up as a distinct question, and he hoped that at no distant day it would be placed on some definite footing. Sometimes these balances were taken as a reduction of subsequent Votes; at other times they were surrendered into the Treasury, but no uniform rule was observed. The Treasury used the balances on separate Votes at their own discretion. Were these balances, he would ask, to he surrendered, and dealt with entirely on the same principle as was followed in the case of the Army and Navy Estimates?
 MR. AYRTON  observed, that he believed the right hon. Gentleman had not satisfactorily explained the matter. The question really was why, having so expensive a staff attached to the office, it had been necessary to call in the assistance of those gentlemen. He had no doubt as to the perfect wisdom of enrolling the aid of the Parliamentary agents of the Carlton Club upon such an occasion. No selection could have been more judicious, although it might involve some reflection upon professional gentlemen addicted to Liberal opinions. Still the question stood thus— the right lion. Gentleman said he employed Messrs. Baxter and Co. because the Bill had nothing to do with his department. Well, but if the Bill had nothing to do with his department, what had he to do with the Bill? The position of matters was most extraordinary. Time did not press with reference to the Thames embankment, for it had already waited during twenty years, and that got rid of the right hon. Gentleman's first excuse; while with regard to the second, that Messrs. Baxter and Co. had been employed because in a previous Session they had been the promoters of a similar Bill, so far from that justifying the appointment, it operated directly the other way, as, according to the ordinary rule, they were thereby disqualified from undertaking the conduct of a Bill for the public.
 MR. AYRTON  asked, whether the sum of £200,000, at which the cost of erecting the Foreign Office was fixed in the Vote, was a guess estimate, or whether it was an amount which had been settled by careful and deliberate inquiry, and within which it was intended that the cost of this building should be kept; and also whether steps were being taken for carrying out any particular design.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he wanted to ask whether the £200,000, when expended, would make the new Foreign Office fit for occupation, or whether that amount would merely cover the architectural work on the
 997
 MR. AYRTON  said, he would remind the right hon. Gentleman that the embankment of the river was not to extend beyond the east side of Westminster Bridge. He believed the subway could he constructed in a very simple manner.
 MR. AYRTON  asked, whether it was intended to carry out a suggestion which had been made of carrying a subway under the existing road, for the convenience of Members of Parliament and others landing from the steamers. He understood that the opinion of the engineer of the bridge was favourable to the construction of such a subway.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he could not understand the object of re-enacting the law. He thought the Secretary for Ireland would do well either to withdraw the clause altogether, or to refer the Bill to a Select Committee.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, that he intended on the following evening to call attention to the general question of our public buildings, and he hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would postpone the Vote until after the discussion of that subject had taken place.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that the interpretation which his hon. and gallant Friend had put upon the guarantee given by the House would prevent any reduction whatever in the Indian army. Orders had been given to reduce several of the native regiments, and therefore the officers who
 991 992
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  explained, that purchase in the Indian army had been declared illegal by a court of law, but he was aware it was as common as payments in excess of the regulation price of commissions in this country.
 LORD FERMOY  said, he had no interest, direct or indirect, in the London and North Western Railway Company or in the Dublin Steam Packet Company, but he felt a great personal interest in the attainment of this object, that the passage from London to Ireland should be made in a moderate time, conveniently, and in safety. Now he confessed he did not think, if the Government were very particular in exacting penalties, that the journey would be performed in safety. What was the state of the case? Formerly a great loss of time took place in the course of the passage between London and Dublin. An arrangement, however, had been made between the companies, and things had been placed on a better footing than formerly. The journey had been shortened immensely
 1012
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he held, that as the style of the building was to be Grecian, the point raised by the hon. Member was not of as great importance as it would have been had the style been mediœval, as there were only round columns to be worked, instead of statues and armorial bearings. Seeing how well Somerset House and St. Paul's Cathedral had stood, there ought to be little difficulty in selecting the proper stone.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he wished to know what kind of stone was to he used. He trusted it would not be a stone which would turn into sand, like that of the Houses of Parliament?
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether it is true that an artificial island is being constructed in Plymouth Sound by sinking stones, for the purpose of building on it a fort similar to those which are under construction at Spithead?
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he thought some misconceptions prevailed with regard to the circumstances of this harbour. He could undertake to say that the impression which appeared to have been formed by the hon. Member (Mr. Brady) was quite erroneous. There was excellent holding ground in the harbour, and that was almost the only merit it had. The only way in which he could account for the impression was, that in some parts of the harbour some shingly ballast had been thrown down, over which the anchors of ships sometimes slipped. But he was surprised to hear his right hon. Friend (Mr. Herbert) say that the harbour at Holyhead had been so useful that it was found necessary to add to it. The origin of the case was this. Some years ago it was admitted on all hands that a harbour of refuge at Holyhead was necessary; but in order to gratify the econo-
 1009
 MR. BENTINCK  said, be did not wish it should be supposed that he had given an opinion to the effect that there was not good and secure anchorage in the outer harbour for ships of the line. On the contrary, he knew that six line-of-battle ships had brought up there. But when his noble Friend said that the necessity for. increased dimensions in the harbour arose from the increased dimensions of ships, he was fighting u most chivalrous battle for those who originally planned the works. The fact was, that the entrance was so small and so difficult of access in certain winds, that merchantmen, particularly crippled vessels, were unable to work into the harbour; so that it was virtually not a harbour of refuge at all. Hence the necessity of the greatly extended and most expensive works that had been projected since.
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, he wished to ask for some explanation. If he recollected rightly, the noble Lord at the head of the Government and the Chief Commissioner of Works had stated that the sum of £15,000, which had been voted two years ago for the alterations and repairs in the National Gallery, would have been amply sufficient; and now £1,705 more was asked for.
 MR. WHALLEY  asked the right hon. Gentleman whether he had taken into consideration the opinions of the Commission of scientific gentlemen appointed to investigate the qualities of stone fitted for the Foreign Office.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he feared that the item of £1,820 for the maintenance of 100 Irish female convicts in refuges was only another means of encouraging establishments intended for exclusively Roman Catholic purposes. He should more that the Vote be reduced by the sum of £550, to which he had already referred.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, that he had not anticipated that the Vote would come on this evening, and therefore he had not given notice that he would call attention to it. The item to which attention had been called was small—only £550; hut it was one of others, which together formed a substantial endowment of the Roman Ca tholic system to the extent of £250,000 a year; and it involved a principle—namely, that if Roman Catholic Dissenters—for Roman Catholics were dissenters from the system of religion recognised by the Constitution of the country—were entitled to such provision, there was no reason win-other classes of Dissenters should not be similarly privileged. There was no other class of religionists of whom it could be said, as it was of the Roman Catholics, in the words of the Coronation Oath, that their religion was a system of idolatry and superstition. He did not use that term offensively; but it was a fact that under the Roman Catholic system in Ireland the cost of the police was increasing to an enormous extent. In 1846 it was little more than £400,000, and this year it was near £800,000. If £550 were given to Roman Catholics immured in prisons, how could the House resist the granting of a much larger sum to those Roman Catholics who had not violated the laws? No public advantage could be secured by en couraging the visits of priests to our prisons. He was prepared to prove that, as a general rule, the teaching of the Roman Catholic priests would be found at variance with the teaching of the laws. There was scarcely an offence for which a man could be imprisoned but that the priest could suggest such consolation as would encourage the prisoner to violate the law, and would defeat entirely the object of punishment. A priest who discharged his duty as a priest would tell a man that there were circumstances under which embezzlement or robbery from a master did not amount to criminal guilt, but were
 1034 1035
 MAJOR EDWARDS  wished to know whether Committees would sit on Thursday.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  said, he wished for some information as to what was proposed to be done with the packet pier at Holyhead. A very large sum, it would be remembered, had been voted for the packet
 1005
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  remarked, that there were unforeseen circumstances connected with Holyhead, the very success of the scheme having led to the harbour being made a harbour of refuge, and an immense addition to the expense was thereby rendered necessary. He believed there was no manner in which money could be more humanely or more advantageously expended than in constructing harbours of refuge. He crossed the Channel eight or nine times a year, and he was able to bear testimony that in bad weather the harbour was literally crammed with vessels which had run in for refuge.
 MR. H, A. HERBERT  said, he wished for some explanation of an item £376 for repairs at Howth Harbour, which he could not understand, as he believed that harbour had been given up.
 MR. CHILDERS  could not understand the answer, as there was a balance of £38,000 applicable to the expenditure.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he wanted to ask who was responsible for the lighthouse sent out for erection on the Basses Rocks near Ceylon? That light-house turned out a failure, and he did not know what had become of it. It had since been determined to send out a light-ship, to be moored close by; and he wished to know whether the Board of Trade were satisfied that the light-ship would be more successful than the light-house?
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that after this explanation he should not oppose the Vote.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he must protest against that breach of the arrangement upon which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had laid such stress, that no money was to
 994
 MR. CHILDERS  wished to know whether the present Vote would be wholly expended before the 31st of March next.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, the Government were providing altogether for 11,060 prisoners this year, or for about 1,500 in excess of the actual number. There was a balance of £100,000 in the Exchequer on that account, and the Estimate appeared considerably more than could possibly be expended during the year.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that there was an item of £2,200 for Stationery for the Irish Constabulary, and a Vote in another class of £3,400 fur Stationery for the same body.
 MR. FREELAND  said, the Vote, as it appeared in the Estimates, was perfectly unintelligible; for the charges for rent, repairs, alterations, and a variety of other matters were lumped together without any detail whatever.
 MR. WHITE  said, he was not satisfied with the reply of the right hon. Gentleman the First Commissioner. It was quite clear that the system of undefined expenditure was still being pursued with reference to the proposed new building. He believed that before the Foreign Office was completed the sum of £200,000 would be only about one-half of the total amount which would have to be expended. He should have been much better satisfied if the right hon. Gentleman had said that £200,000 and no more should be appropriated to this purpose. He did not think the answer of the right hon. Gentleman on the subject of the stone satisfactory, or that there was any more guarantee for their obtaining the right quality than there had been in the case of the New Houses of Parliament. In that case a scientific commission had given an opinion as to the best stone for the purpose, but, either from parsimony or ignorance, the proper means had not been adopted for providing that only the best stone should be selected, although be believed a competent person might have been employed on the spot to watch the selection at an expense of not more than £300 a year.
 MR. WHITE  remarked that he was not satisfied with a random estimate of a couple of hundred thousand pounds, and lie hoped the right hon. Gentleman would give a distinct and categorical statement that the probable expenditure on the Foreign Office would not exceed that sum. They ought not to imitate the example of despotic countries in lodging our public servants in public palaces.
 MR. WHITE  said, he rose to protest against the Vote, and express a hope that it would be withdrawn. The Vote might have been necessary when the Scotch were semi-nude savages, but there was no place where the value of property had been so enhanced as in the Highlands of Scotland; and the time had now arrived when the expenditure on the roads there should be thrown on the districts through which they ran. He regretted to find that when ever there was a Commission, something more than superhuman energy was necessary to get rid of it.
 MR. WHITE  said, he wished to ask whether it was true, that notwithstanding the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cowper) was at all times able to command the services of a most able solicitor as the regular permanent law agent of his department, he had found it necessary to call in the assistance of Messrs. Baxter, Rose, and Norton, the solicitors of the Carlton Club, to aid him in passing the Thames Embankment Bill. A more respectable firm than that of these gentlemen did not exist; still it would be as well if it were made perfectly clear why it had become necessary to invoke such extra assistance.
 MR. BRADY  said, it appeared, then, that the Lord Privy Seal did little, and yet required clerks to assist him.
 MR. BRADY  said, he thought the Vote ought not to have been proposed at all. The grant was one that would not be allowed in this country, and he should support the hon. Member if he divided the Committee upon it.
 MR. BRADY  said, he was surprised to hear the right hon. Gentleman's statement, for he had always heard the harbour described as entirely useless. He would ask whether there was not some difficulty in taking anchor in the harbour, owing to the rocky nature of the bottom? He advised the Committee not to vote another farthing for Holyhead until further information was obtained.
 MR. BRADY  said, he was present when Baron Fitzgerald made similar remarks in the county of Leitrim to those the gallant Colonel had referred to. The truth was, an order had issued from the Castle at Dublin directing that every incident of a criminal nature should be reported by the police. The result had been the collection of a mass of crime which appeared to be perfectly horrible; but it turned out, on inquiry, that most of the things the police had set down were so trivial that they ought never to have been reported at all. It was generally considered in Ireland that the force had too military a character to be perfectly useful as police.
 MR. BRADY  said, the Bill gave power to make an accusation upon suspicion, and threw upon the accused the burden of proving his innocence, a principle which would never be sanctioned for England. He could not admit that such a proposition would be popular in Ireland.
 MR. BRADY  said, he should oppose the clause. It was most unwise to have one law for Ireland and another for England,
 MR. BRADY  said, he would withdraw the amendment.
 MR. BRADY  said, he should then move that the Chairman leave the chair.
 MR. SPEAKER : This conversation cannot go on. There is no question before the House.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he wished to know from the right hon. Gentleman the exact amount the Government had in hand?
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he would like to know if such a Bill would be tolerated in England. Clauses 4 and 5 appeared to be intended to punish poor persons for picking up fuel and sticks on the road, while Clause 6 threw the onus upon an individual suspected of a crime, of proving his innocence.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he objected to a provision which made the stealing of trees anywhere punishable. No such law existed in England.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he wished to take that occasion to call attention to the item of £2,000 for extra expenses on account of elections. The sum could have relation only to the Longford election. He must express his surprise at the largeness of the amount.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he was delighted to hear the eulogistic terms in which the Messrs. Baxter, Rose, and Norton were spoken of. No doubt these gentlemen merited such a reference; but the right hon. Gentleman should recollect that they had introduced a Bill of an entirely different character from that introduced during the present Session with respect to the Thames
 1022
 MR. LOCKE  observed, that there was precisely the same law in England—the 24 & 25  Vict
 MR. LOCKE  said, he wished to know upon what data Mr. Scott proceeded, in returning the estimate for the Foreign Office at £200,000. Unless the architect knew the material which would be used in the building, his estimate must be of, little worth. To work a hard stone like Portland must be very expensive, and that item must enter into any correct estimate.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he would call attention to the fact that there was already a doorway in the structure of the bridge; and although he could not precisely tell what purpose it served, or where it led to, yet it was to be presumed from the fact that there was a hollow under the bridge. Well, if people could go in by that door under the bridge for one purpose, they could go in for another, and therefore a ready means was afforded of overcoming the difficulty and meeting the suggestions of his hon. Friend.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he had to complain that the Lunacy Commissioners did not work with the county magistrates. Owing to the way in which the Commissioners conducted business, a lunatic asylum in South Wales, which was decided on years ago, had not been opened yet.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, that nil the rate-
 1026
 MR. BASS  said, he wished to express a hope that before proceeding with the second reading of the Customs and Inland Revenue Bill, the Chancellor of the Exchequer would obtain that information which was so necessary with regard to the stock of hops on which he would have to pay drawback.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he was gratified at finding so many hon. Members express the opinions which he had always held, and which he had many years ago expressed. He confessed it shocked him to see the courts attended by men with guns and bayonets, for it appeared to him that that was the best way that could be devised of keeping up the idea amongst the people of Ireland, that their country was in the possession of a foreign power. Things had entirely changed since the constabulary was established, and the police might well now be armed as they were in England. The Irish constables lived together in their barracks, and seemed to consider themselves above their business as thief-takers.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, the Act the hon. and learned Gentleman referred to applied to Ireland. There could be no necessity for re-enacting that Bill for Ireland.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he should move that the Committee be deferred for six months. He regarded the Bill as a most extraordinary measure, especially after the great attention that had been paid in former years by distinguished men of all classes to the subject of a consolidation of the criminal law. Instead of a consolidating measure for the criminal law, he was surprised and disappointed at finding such a measure proposed, which was intended only to apply to Ireland.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he hoped the House would allow the question to be postponed till Thursday, when other Irish measures wore on the papers, and Irish landed Members would be present.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, that he had been requested about two years ago by some gentlemen who wished to take notes
 1001
 MR. SLANEY  said, he would suggest that upon one day of the week a trifling sum should be paid for admission in order to enable ladies to enjoy a visit to the
 1003
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, it would be for the convenience of the House, if some member of the Government would state whether or not it is intended that the House shall sit on Thursday,
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, it was of great importance to British trade that these lights should be maintained; and unless a grant for that purpose were made from Imperial sources, there would be no light-houses.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the Board of Trade were responsible for advising the Treasury to sanction this expenditure. He was afraid that the outlay upon the light-house had been wasted. The engineeer employed had under-rated he difficulties of erecting a fixed light, and after a considerable expenditure the project had been abandoned. A new plan of lighting had been adopted, and those who were competent to form an opinion had no doubt it would be successful. He alluded to the placing of a floating lightship near the rocks. That light-ship would give intimation of these rocks to the passing trade. He hoped that the unfortunate endeavour to erect a fixed structure upon the rocks would be a warning to engineers not to attempt so hazardous an experiment in future.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would postpone the second reading of the Bill till Thursday next.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he should be glad to know how the matter stood, as he wished to be guided in taking the second reading of the Bill by the convenience of the House. Due notice had been given of the second reading of the Bill, and no notice or intimation appeared of any intention to question the Bill in that stage; but he had received intimation that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire was under the impression that Supply would come on, and that the Bill would not be taken that evening. So far as the collection of the revenue was concerned, it would, no doubt, be convenient that the
 973
 MR. BARROW  said, he thought, as the, mails were earned on the roads for the convenience of the inhabitants of the district, tolls ought to be charged on those roads, as in every county in England.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he would remind the First Commissioner that hon. Members could not now get to the House without much inconvenience and even risk to their limbs.
 COLONEL SYKES  insisted that purchase was legalized by the order of 29th of November, 1837.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether officers of the local Armies of India are liable to be removed against their consent from the regiments to which they belong, and to be sent to any station for the performance of general duty; whether compensation will be granted to officers so taken from their regiments and sent to general duty for the loss of regimental, troop, or company command allowances whether compensation will be given; to officers who have subscribed to Regimental Retiring Funds, in the full confidence of their subscriptions being returned; to them on their own retirement; and; whether the East India Company's late; European Artillery and Engineers have be
 990
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he was surprised that any further sum should be required, seeing that £173,000 had already been granted, and that a large balance remained unexpended.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  observed, that he did not see why that money was required. Orders had been given to Mr. Scott to make the necessary preparations for the contract, but until the contract was entered into, the right hon. Gentleman could hare no need for the Vote. He also wished to know in what way the £3,100 said to have been already expended in connection with the building had been laid out?
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, it was high time that the Vote should be put and end to, and he should divide the Committee against it. Those Highland roads and bridges had been maintained by the State for considerably more than 100 years, and though there might have been a period when such an expenditure was necessary, it was quite unnecessary now, and the country ought not to be called upon for a Vote which was really for the benefit of the Scotch landed proprietors.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, the duties were defined to be those of a Member of the Cabinet. How then, could the services of a chief clerk and assistant clerk be necessary?
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he should like to be informed what were the duties of the Lord Privy Seal.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS , said, he questioned the necessity of paying £1,500 a year for a medical adviser to the Privy Council.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he thought that the Government ought to submit to the Committee a statement of the whole charge in respect of the Woods and Forests Department, which figures, however, they had always refused, because they would show an enormous expenditure. Here was £160,000 for management of property producing £400,000 a year. As for asking for the paltry Vote of £26,000 from the House when the real cost was £160,000, it was absurd. It was said that it was Crown property, and could not be submitted to the investigation of the House But the Crown had surrendered it by Ac of Parliament to the public, and it received in return a civil list. If the Crown
 1024
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that a most extraordinary deception had been practised on the House with regard to the Holyhead Harbour. The first estimate of Mr. Rendel amounted to little more than £800,000; and now the estimated cost of the works reached within a small amount of £2,000,000. He wished to know whether the last sum would be sufficient to complete the harbour, which, he was told, would never be a proper harbour of refuge after all?
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that he wished to call attention to the fact that seventeen items of the Vote, making in all £66,000 related to buildings for the purposes of education in Ireland, and he would
 1015
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he must contend that it was unreasonable to ask for £4,000 to make up the deficiency. The court had done vast good to Ireland, and no money could be better laid out by the people of that country than in defraying the costs.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he found that the charge for the year was £80,000 more than in last year.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  observed, that he did not think there was business for three Commissioners. Two had been able to get through the Tithe Commutation work, and that was at an end long ago.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that nevertheless he did not think that any case had been made for the employment of three Commissioners.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he thought that the House was very much indebted to the right hon. and gallant Gentleman for the lucid and able manner in which he had brought forward a very intricate subject. The Committee which had considered the matter included several ex-Secretaries of War, but nobody seemed to know anything about it. In point of fact, the "Reserve
 987
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he thought the Government were entitled to credit for taking steps to correct the Estimates for the Civil Service. It was not an easy task, but the Government had undertaken it, and the consequence was that matters were now in a transition state. He understood it to be the intention of the Government that at the end of the financial year all surpluses remaining over should be carried into the Exchequer, and that next year these Estimates should be placed upon the same footing as the Army and Navy Estimates.
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  said, that though differing in some degree from what had fallen from his gallant Friend,
 1030
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he would remind his hon. Friend that additional duties had been imposed on the Commissioners. They now, in fact, performed duties formerly done by five Commissioners. He did not believe less than three could do this duty.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that instead of matters in dispute between the Lunacy Commissioners and the county magistrates being discussed by correspondence, it was desirable they should be settled in a personal conference, and this course had been taken in some cases with good results. He believed that some delay had been caused in Wales by the difficulty of obtaining an agreement between the different counties. He believed that generally the Commissioners were disposed to act in concert with the magistrates and the ratepayers.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the office was created under an Act of Parliament, and his hon. Friend must repeal that if he objected to the Vote.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  was understood to say that he should, on an early day, bring in a Bill authorizing the removal of this prison.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he was sorry to say there had been some increase of crime during the last year, and the Estimate had been prepared after careful consideration. The prisons were inconveniently full, and it had been found impossible to remove many prisoners from the county gaols. No change had taken place with regard to convict labour.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that no convicts were sent to Bermuda last year, and none would be sent this year.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that there were many items in the Vote, and one might have been overlooked by some who would object to it. He referred to the item of £550 for the provision of religious instruction for Roman Catholics in convict prisons. A similar Vote was proposed in 1854 and rejected; and he was happy now to find, that although the Vote had been some time in print, no one had given notice of an objection to this item. About 14 per cent of the convicts in prisons in England were Roman Catholics, but there was no power to expend a single shilling in providing religious instruction for them. Facilities were given for the admission of religious instruction; but it was impossible to secure the regular attendance of unpaid Roman Catholic chaplains. In some cases the prisons were twelve miles from the residence of the priests. Under these circumstances he had felt it his duty to submit the item, believing that if hon. Members were consistent in the professions they made of a desire to see all persons placed on an equality, they ought to make some provision for the religious instruction of
 1033
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he thought it would probably be for the convenience of Members serving on Committees that they should not meet on Thursday.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, it was intended that the House should sit on Thursday, but not at the usual hour. He believed the time of the opening of the Exhibition had not yet been fixed. If it should be at one o'clock, which he believed would be the case, the House would meet at six. But to-morrow notice would be given for a Motion for Wednesday to fix the time at which the House might meet on Thursday.
 MR. CAIRD  said, he did not dispute the ability with which these estates were managed, though on a former occasion he had alluded to the fact that the conversion of 1,900 acres of land in Essex involved an expenditure of £67,000. But, as the gentleman in question was employed not only by the Woods and Forests, but by the Treasury, the War Office, and almost every other Department as occasion arose, he thought it would be more economical to place him upon a salary, and to make him responsible for the advice which he gave. He believed that the true reason why the property had sold for thirty-six years' purchase was, because the public saw that it had been grossly underlet, and therefore that the rental was no criterion of its value.
 MR. CAIRD  said, speaking as a Scotchman, he thought a Vote of the kind did them little credit. Every year in a similar discussion the whole of Scotland was found fault with for asking an aid that was confined only to one district. A very large sum had been expended on these roads; so much the better for that part of the country; but surely it could now afford to undertake the expense itself. In no part of Great Britain had the rent of land more improved than in that district. After the very inadequate defence of the Vote they had heard, the sooner it was cancelled the better.
 MR. CAIRD  said, he wished to draw attention to the large sums which were not shown in this Vote, but which were annually paid to Mr. Clutton, of Whitehall place, as poundage and commission. That Gentleman received last year from that source about £10,000, while he was convinced that the work would be better performed by a responsible officer, whose services might be obtained for a salary of £800 or £1,000 per annum. He also wished to have some explanation of the large charge for solicitor's expenses in Scotland, which amounted to no less a sum than £2,200, while in Ireland, from which a large revenue was derived, they were only £250.
 SIR JERVOISE JERVOISE  said, he wished to know whether the architect was to be paid five per cent on the cost, or whether he was to receive a fixed sum?
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he could not understand why a charge of the kind should be made for South Wales, when it had been refused for Scotland. Recollecting that the toll-gates in South Wales had been abolished as the result of the "Rebecca Riots," he was at a loss to understand why the Government maintained a Superintendent of Roads.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  remarked, that every Government had maintained the necessity of giving to the Irish constabulary a military training; and with regard to their efficiency, he believed it to be as great as ever.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  explained that that was principally owing to the alteration of the arm used by the constabulary.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he trusted that the hon. and gallant Member would make his Motion at once, and not ask for the postponement of the Vote. The Irish constabulary, so far from being an expensive body, were cheaper than the police force in this country or Scotland.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, the item had nothing to do with the bands, which were provided by the men themselves, nor had it any special reference to the Longford election. That election, no doubt, was a very expensive affair, but the sum of £2,000 was to cover contingencies at elections and other disturbances.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he assured the hon. Member that the general feeling in Ireland was in favour of the Bill, and the Irish law officers were strongly in its favour. It had become necessary to change the law of last year by re-establishing in some form the Summary Jurisdiction Act of 1851, and this Bill was thought to be the best mode of attaining that object.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, it was a re-enactment of the old law.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, it was impossible for the Government to resist the opposition to further progress to-night; but it was necessary to go on with the Bill.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he must oppose the Motion.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, it was not his intention to convey that there would be any difficulty in obtaining suitable stone. His only object was to warn the First Commissioner of the necessity for proper precaution in the selection of the stone in the Island of Portland, the stone in one part of the island being of a very inferior description. He trusted that the House would agree with him that a hard stone ought to be used. In that, as in many other things, the first expense was the least.
 SIR MORTON PETO  remarked, that the quarries in that part of the Island of Portland from which the stone for St. Paul's Cathedral was taken had been scarcely worked since that period, and there were at present various portions of stone intended for St. Paul's which had never been used. That stone was much harder than any other Stone in the island. In the time of Sir Christopher Wren the architects were good geologists, and care was then exercised, which had not been exercised since, in the selection of materials. He understood the right hon. Gentleman to have pledged himself that the plan should not be altered, and in that case a satisfactory result might be obtained. But unless the right hon. Gentleman set his face against any alterations he would be continually asked to change the plans according to the whims of the individuals for whom the offices were required.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he desired to know how far the First Commissioner held himself responsible for works carried on through Votes of the House.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, the Secre-
 1018
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, that the Vote before the Committee was only another of the numerous instances of an enormous excess of expenditure over the original estimate. As the hon. Gentleman had truly said the Estimate for the harbour was at first only £800,000, whereas the cost, together with that of the extension works, was put down then at £1,198,000. Whenever such an objectionable proceeding occurred, the Government must be blameable. In a neighbouring country, where there was a responsible Minister of Public Works, nothing of the kind was known; and there would be no amendment in this country of the evil of which he complained until the House had appointed a really responsible Minister of Public Works. For the last sixteen years he had been in connection with that functionary; and he must say that nothing could exceed the searching and comprehensive manner in which the business of the department was transacted. In the present case, however, the work had been intrusted to the Admiralty; but he did not believe that that office had any suitable machinery for conducting works of this description. Unless they had a properly responsible department to undertake such matters, the House would never have the slightest guarantee that any Estimate presented to them would be really sufficient.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he understood that the objectionable system would still continue as regarded the balances of previous years. As to the balance on the Vote under consideration of £31,000 on the 28th of February, supposing £21,000 of that amount wore still in hand, was it to be spent in the course of the year, with the £100,000; or, if not spent, was it to he surrendered, or to be held in the hands of the Treasury, applicable to any services for which it had been voted in former years?
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he must apologize for again recurring to the question of the balances, but he was not quite satisfied with the explanation that had been given on that important and vexed question. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of the Treasury said that a sum of about £50,000 would be applied out of the balances to the expenditure of the current year. It would appear that there were balances of a much larger amount than that. By the Vote under consideration he saw that on the 28th February last there were balances of £31,000, and running through the whole of these accounts the aggregate balances were £700,000 on the 28th of February, one month before the close of the financial year. It was not to be supposed that the whole of that Bum had been spent between the 28th of February and the 31st of March. Was there any portion of the £31,000 in the Exchequer on the 31st of March. Alluding to the first four Votes in the class before the Committee, the Secretary of the Treasury spoke of the surpluses on former grants. Those surpluses amounted to £55,000; but if there were any surplus on other Votes, then there had been larger balances than £55,000, which would come in aid of the services of the present year; and by the amount of those balances the amount they were going to expend during the year
 1013
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that on the 28th February, a balance of £5,000 remained in hand from the sum voted last year, so that the inconvenience would not be as great as was contemplated, if the Commitee, on full consideration of the subject, thought fit to reject the Vote.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he wished to say one word on the subject of cash balances, not particularly with re-
 999
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he believed he could state what was the impression on the mind of his right hon. Friend the Member for Buckinghamshire. He find some conversation with his right hon. Friend on Saturday; and though there was not the slightest intention on the part of the right hon. Gentleman to throw any impediment in the way of the second reading of the Bill, it had been his intention to offer some remarks on the general financial position of affairs, and he (Sir S. Northcote) had himself intended to make other remarks, partly having reference to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer at Manchester last week, That morning he had heard from the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire that he hail been informed by the noble Viscount the First Minister of the Crown that it was not intended to proceed with the Bill that night; and the right hon. Gentleman was, at that moment, he believed, dining with the Lord Mayor. There would not be the slightest intention of opposing the passing of the Bill; and if the Government thought it desirable to proceed with it to-night, he was quite sure, speaking as far as he was en titled to do for his right hon. Friend, there would be no objection to that course.
 MR. CAVE  said, in reply to the Secretary of the Treasury, that mail carts were exempt from tolls in all Highways in England as well as Scotland, and that the opposition to the Vote could not be regarded as a surprise, since a similar discussion took place last year.
 MR. CAVE  regarded the Vote as a perfect anachronism, originating at a period when the Highlands were so unsafe that it was necessary to hold military possession of the district, and wondered that the Scotch Members themselves did not protest against it, as a libel upon their country. Nor was it really in the interest of the Highland proprietors, for one of these gentlemen had told him that the Government inspection was so costly a thing that they would rather not have the grant at all, as then they would be left to manage these roads themselves, which they would do at a much cheaper rate. This he could easily understand, as they had lately been informed that Government superintendence of roads in India cost 3 d
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the matter was easily explained. The lands sold were small detached lots, lying in the immediate neighbourhood of larger estates, and every one knew that the desire to possess land contiguous to their own, frequently induced persons to give for it more than its real market value.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he thought the result of the last two divisions showed the opinion of the House.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the Government was so far in the hands of its opponents, because, though there were but eight of them, they might defeat it by beating a retreat. The Government must therefore yield.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he understood the hon. and gallant Member objected to arming the constabulary with the Enfield rifle. Now, he could quite understand a person saying that they should not have firearms, but should be only armed like the police in London; but if they were to have firearms, surely they ought to have good ones. With respect to the general efficiency of the Irish constabulary, everybody seemed to be agreed. They constituted n most valuable force, performed their duties admirably, and not the loss so on account of the military instruction they received. If the hon. and gallant Member desired an opportunity of going at length into his objections, he would have one on the bringing up of the report.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, the Returns and Questions referred to had, as stated, been sent to the hon. Member for Leominster, and he (Mr. Bruce) had not the slightest objection that the hon. Member should furnish them to the Home Office if he thought proper to do so. With respect to the last question, he could give no specific answer; but he presumed that footpaths and mountain tracks, not being Highways, were not included by the Welsh Surveyors in their Return.
 MR. COWPER  said, that although he quite sympathized with the motives which had induced his hon. Friend to bring this subject before the House, and agreed with him in desiring to see the metropolis adorned and embellished by public buildings worthy of the nation. He did not think that the proposition he had made was either reasonable or advantageous. First of all, he objected to any such Commission
 1049 1050 1051 1052 1053 1054 1055
 MR. COWPER : Not by Parliament. I spoke of the total amount of money which would be so expended. I alluded to the plan and spoke of the money without making any reference to the sources from which it would have to be derived.
 MR. MOFFATT  said, that he had placed a Motion on the Paper for a Select Committee to inquire into the operation of the petty charges on commerce imposed in 1860. He had given notice of that Motion, with a view of proposing an inquiry into the whole of the petty and vexatious charges imposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer in the financial arrangements of 1860. These were six in number:—1. The imposition of 5 s d 1072 s 6 d
 MR. KINNAIED  said, he would have made some remarks upon the question last night, but the speech of his hon. Friend the Member for Peterborough (Mr. Whalley) had so thoroughly destroyed the expectation of any calm discussion that be himself abstained from making any observations. There was in this country the most complete religious equality; the noble Lord himself admitted that he had nothing on that score to complain of—he admitted that there was complete toleration, but he wanted payment for the clergymen of his own persuasion.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he only had in repeat that there was complete toleration. If he heard of any case in which prisoners wished to have assistance from a Roman Catholic priest, he should be the first to urge upon the Government the propriety of complying with such a request; but it was a different thing to endow Roman Catholic Chaplains, and entitle them, with the autho-
 1086
 MR. KINNAIRD  wished to inquire what arrangement was proposed by the noble Lord at the head of the Government as to the sitting of the House on Thursday.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether any information has been received respecting the alleged prohibition of Protestant Worship, conducted by a Clergyman of the Church of England in the British Vice Consul's House at Seville; and whether any and what measures have been taken to secure for British subjects in Spain the free exercise of their religion?
 MR. KINNAIRD  seconded the Motion.
 LORD EDWARD HOWARD  said, the hon. Gentleman had no right to put into his mouth words which he had not used. He had a great deal to complain of in the position of Roman Catholics in this country.
 LORD EDWARD HOWARD  said, it
 1083 1084 1085
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that in that case he did not see why the right hon. Gentleman might not as well have included the cost of every new street which would be made by the Metropolitan Board of Works. He owned that when he heard the Thames embankment mentioned, the idea flashed across his mind that the right hon. Gentleman was paving the way for the House to regard the Thames embankment as a great work to be undertaken by the office of which he was the head. He thought the Motion of his hon. Friend was entitled to the strongest support; and there was a double reason for entering upon the inquiry when they reflected that portions of the works proposed to be carried out by the right hon. Gentleman had been really rejected by the House; for he could put no other construction upon the Vote to which the House came the other night on the Motion respecting the concentration of the law courts, and the way in which the money was to be provided for that purpose. That was a delicate point, because it appeared to be the opinion of the Government that, notwithstanding that decision, the plan was still to go forward. That certainly was an important statement to come out incidentally in a debate of that sort, and he should like to have a distinct answer whether the Government were prepared to consider the Vote upon that Motion (Mr. Selwyn's) conclusive, or whether they intended altogether to disregard it. At all events whether the Government took the Vote of the other night as conclusive, or whether they disregarded it and set it aside, it was no argument
 1059
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, his hon. Friend the Member for Honiton had recommended the appointment of a Commission as a means of ensuring economy, while his right hon. Friend the First Commissioner of Works contended that the adoption of the Motion would rather lead to increased extravagance. Now, for his (Lord John Manners's) part, he regarded the Motion neither in the one light nor the other; and he hoped the House would think that the light in which he looked on the Motion was the correct one. He regarded it as a proposal for inquiry only. He did not wish to say a word as to the possible results of a Commission of Inquiry. Were the Commission granted, it might lead to a considerable diminution of the
 1056 1057 1058
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he would admit that there was some force in the objections of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and he therefore would propose to amend his Motion by omitting the words "to inquire into the state of the public buildings erected by Parliamentary grants within the last twenty years," and after the words "public service" to insert the words "in the metropolis."
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, that he rose to move,
 "That an humble address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that She will be graciously pleased to issue a Commission to inquire into the state of the Public Buildings erected by means of Parliamentary Grants within the last twenty years, and also of the Houses rented for the Public Service; and to inquire whether, by adopting more comprehensive plans of building, greater public convenience, greater economy, and unity of design may not be attained." 1041 1042 The Times 1043 1044 1045 1046 "The best course will be to fix upon some site, and then to require the preparation of plans suited alike to the site and to the purposes of the build-
 1047 "The only safe course is this—let the Government state, This is the accommodation we want, this is the plan intended to provide for it, and this is the area of ground on which we want to put it. The House will then have the whole question before it, and will be able to give a fair answer to it." 1048
 MR. LAYARD  regretted to say that information had been received by the Government that owing to the interference of the Spanish authorities at Seville the English Vice Consul had been compelled to suspend the celebration of Protestant worship in the Consular premises, which had been conducted by a Clergyman of the Church of England in accordance, it was believed, with the spirit of the treaties existing between the two countries. As soon as the British Minister at Madrid was made acquainted with the fact by the Vice Consul, he remonstrated with the Spanish Minister of Foreign Affairs, who at once stated that he would direct inquiries to be made. The hon. Member was doubtless aware that according to international usage Consuls were allowed to hold Protestant worship
 1040
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he did not at all agree that the House was yesterday taken by surprise, however small the numbers that were present, because the Estimates in the hands of Members gave due notice of the intention of Government on the subject. It was to be regretted that such a Vote was not brought before a House in which the opinions of the country should be represented; but that was owing to no fault of the Government. The Vote passed on the previous night; and that day the House was called on to give an opinion on the report of the Vote. Attention had been called to it by one who had every claim to the respect of the House. Still the hon. and learned Gentleman was in his place last night and allowed the Vote to pass. The Vote was, undoubtedly, one of
 1089
 MR. NEWDEGATE  thought, when the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary reviewed his observations, he would find that the principle which he had enunciated would go the whole length of justifying the establishment of the Roman Catholic Church in this country. Because what did the right hon. Gentleman's statement amount to? It went to this—that it was not sufficient to afford every facility for the access of Roman Catholic priests to the Roman Catholic prisoners within the gaols of this country, and he (Mr. Newdegate), for one, should deeply lament if such access were not given; but the right hon. Gentleman said that it was also necessary that the state should pay the Roman Catholic chaplains regular salaries for attending those prisons. The right hon. Gentleman, in support of his argument, adduced the fact of Roman Catholic priests being appointed as chaplains to the gaols in Ireland, and Roman Catholic chaplains to the army. He (Mr. Newdegate) thought it necessary that the country should be made aware of the extent to which that principle of the right hon. Gentleman would lead the House. In 1854 this very Vote now before the Committee was proposed, and was rejected. There was a much deeper and graver principle involved in this Vote than that referred to by the right hon. Gentleman. It was idle to deny the fact that the Roman Catholic Church was an ambitious political body. Further, it was idle to deny the fact that such had been the tyrannical exercise of the power of that Church where it was fully established on the Continent, that large Roman Catholic communities had risen up to free themselves from that tyranny. It was also the professed prin-
 1081 1082
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he wished to ask whether the inquiry would embrace the colonial as well as foreign trade?
 MR. NEWDEGATE : Including the trade from colonial ports?
 MR. SELWYN  said, that the Vote included an item which, though small in amount, was of very great importance in point of principle, and which had been passed the evening before in a very thin House, and which was now again brought up when very few hon. Members were prepared for such a course. The item he referred to was the sum of £550 for special services for convicts in prisons, and for the religious instruction of Roman
 1076
 MR. HOWES  said, he could not but express his regret that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department had entirely mistaken the position of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the University of Cambrige. What his hon. and learned Friend had said was that he objected to the extension to this country of the principle which had been applied to Ireland; that it was a distinct reversal of the arrangement made in 1854, and that such a step ought not to be taken without as ample a discussion as had been given to the subject eight years ago. His hon. and learned Friend, then, moved his Amendment with the view of having the question fully and fairly discussed. He would therefore press upon the Government the propriety of acceding to the proposition of his hon. and learned Friend.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, that since the hon. and learned Member had declared that the Vote would be an excuse for more extended grants to other denominations, he took that opportunity of observing that he believed there was no danger of any such result. He believed there was no class of her Majesty's nonconformist subjects who required one shilling for purposes of the sort. Happily, they were independent of the aristocratic classes of the country, who had showed their spite against them in vain. Some short time since no less than]27 Members of that House had voted for the continuance of that odious and detestable declaration which was an insult to the feelings of nonconformists. The Government knew very well, that if the grant for Maynooth were discontinued, the Irish church would not continue for many months. He only wished that the wealthy and influential body of Roman Catholic nonconformists in Ireland would join their brethren in this country in renouncing all reliance on Government aid. He protested against its being supposed that the House would ever be led into the mistake of granting further aids to religious bodies: or that the nonconformists would accept what was given only to injure and ruin them by making them pensioners of the State. He therefore told the hon. and learned Member that he need not quote the nonconformists as expectants of state bounty, and if that were his only objection, he might withdraw his opposition to the Vote. Inside the Church they could not agree, except in holding what they had got, and insulting and offending the nonconformist body. Still be should
 1078
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he was extremely gratified to find the matter taken up by the hon. and learned Member for Cambridge University. If the House did not take care the, proposed grant for Roman Catholic chaplains would hereafter be made the pretext for further endowments to the Roman Catholic Church. The priests of that Church, he contended, were officers of a great political system extending itself throughout Europe, and very little less throughout this country than any other. And what were the principles by which these officers were governed? He had been able to show in the few words he addressed to the House on the previous evening, that if the priest faithfully discharged his duty in his instruction to the convict, he would counteract every principle of their system of jurisprudence, and justify every crime for which convicts were punished, and lender quite ineffective the punishment inflicted. The passing of this Vote was inserting the thin end of the wedge; and
 1077
 MR. WHALLEY  explained, that he did not object to the religious tenets of the Roman Catholic Church, with which he had nothing to do; but he objected to the Roman Catholic Church because there was associated with it a system of law called canon law.
 MR. FREELAND  said, he wished to
 1039
 MR. SPEAKER  reminded the hon. Gentleman, that having spoken once, he could not speak again.
 MR. SPEAKER : The Resolution being before the House cannot be altered without the consent of the House. The hon. Gentleman may, however, with the permission of the House, withdraw his Resolution and present it in an altered form.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Kinnaird) was very much mistaken if he imagined that the Catholic Members of the House knew so little about the subject now under discussion, as to admit, for one moment, that anything like religious toleration was exhibited in the treatment of Catholic prisoners in Great Britain. On the contrary, this was the very point at issue, and the House should not be carried away with the idea that the payment of a paltry and inadequate sum of £550 in any degree exhausted the real question. That question was: — Are Catholics to be treated on a different principle from Protestants, or are Catholic clergymen to have precisely the same opportunities of access to the inmates of prisons as Protestant clergymen now possess? This Vote hardly touches that great question, for, in the first place, let it be remembered that the Estimate of £550 is only for eleven prisons, whereas there are over one hundred and fifty prisons in Great Britain, where Catholics are confined, and to which this Estimate of course will not apply. But this is not all. The Home Secretary said not a word as to the regulations under which religious worship and instruction are to be afforded. Perfect freedom and facility in the ministrations of the priest and an adequate remuneration for such ministrations constitute the demand of the Catholics; and of this demand how much is now conceded? Nothing whatever of the really important branch of that demand, and about five or six per cent of the minor branch. Why this £550 for all the Catholic prisoners of Great Britain is not equal to the sum for the Protestant prisoners in a single prison of Great Britain. In the nearest prison to this
 1087 1088
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he rose to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the operation of the present scale of Sugar Duties, with especial reference to their assessment upon a classification according to the quality of the Sugar. As his Motion had not only the support of the Government, but was not opposed by any Member of the House, he would not detain them for more than a few minutes. The sugar duties were levied in 1854 upon the principle of appraisement of the quality of the sugar according to standards in the possession of the authorities. In the period which had since elapsed sufficient
 1074
 MR. HORSFALL  said, that in rising to move for a Select Committee to consider the practicability of consolidating the establishments governed by the Boards of Inland Revenue and Customs respectively, he wished to premise that he had no desire to
 1066 1067 1068
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he rose on the part of the Government to give a cheerful assent to the Motion of his hon. Friend as it then stood; but he was bound to say that it would not have been compatible with his duty to agree to a Motion which would have contemplated as a proper subject of inquiry, and probably of adoption, the consolidation of the Board of Customs with the Board of Inland Revenue. On that subject he would not pretend to give an authoritative opinion; but having had considerable experience arising from a constant connection with the heads of those departments while filling the office which he had
 1069 1070 s d s d s d s d s d s d 1071 s d
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Certainly.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it would have no bearing upon any trade except that to and from the ports of the United Kingdom.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the Government were willing to accede to the Motion of his hon. Friend in its altered form. His own opinion was that the charge upon goods entered inwards did not justify the practical burden which, in the shape of labour, it imposed upon persons engaged in trade. Some of the other changes, however, were useful for the purposes of statistical information, and
 1073
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I am one of those who have expressed in this House great dissatisfaction in regard to the insufficiency of our control over the erection of important public buildings, and the absence of proper securities for unity, expedition, and economy in such great undertakings. I am disposed to regard rather the inarticulate expression of dissatisfaction conveyed in the Motion of my hon. Friend than the form of the remedy which he proposes. As a general
 1061 1062 1063 1064 1065
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought that the only objection which could be taken to their proceedings was, whilst they had negatived one Motion for a Committee of Inquiry, they had acceded to three such Motions for Committees to investigate commercial subjects. He thought, however, that the Motion before them was a very proper one, and though the appointment of such Committees would tax the strength of the House, he hoped that they would use their
 1075
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he thought that although the House in 1854 rejected a similar Vote, they would not now deliberately deprive the Roman Catholic prisoners in our convict gaols of all religious instruction, except that which might be casually given to them by priests residing, in some instances, at a distance of eight or ten miles from the prisons. His hon. Friend who had just sat down had addressed the House upon a question with which the Vote had no connection. The Vote for Roman Catholic chaplains did not raise the question of the voluntary principle. It was impossible to contend that the State, after it had committed a man to prison for a term of years, or for the greater portion of of his life, as a punishment for the offence which he had committed against the State, should afford him no religious instruction. The State would be altogether abandoning its duty if it left that man totally destitute of religious instruction because he was a Roman Catholic. It was the bounden duty of the State to place within the reach of its prisoners such religious instruction as they could conscientiously receive, because they could not themselves go in search of it. In the case under consideration the same principle did not apply as in the case of people not confined within the walls of a prison. he must deny that the Vote went to establish a new principle, and he must confess he was surprised to hear the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Selwyn) offer any objections to it on that occasion, considering that he was present on the previous evening, when the question was raised by the hon. Member for Peterborough (Mr. Whalley), and that he had not then thought it necessary to raise his voice against it. Fourteen or fifteen per cent of the prisoners under the immediate care of the Government in England were Roman Catholics. Very many of them were Irish Roman Catholics, who had come over for employment in this country; they belonged to the poorest class of the community, and constituted a largo proportion of the criminal population of the country. Some convict prisons contained nearly 200 Roman Catholic prisoners, and he had been frequently pressed to make some provision for their religious instruction by ministers of their own religion. Before deciding whether those re-
 1079 1080
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he rose to postpone the Highways Bill till Thursday week, adding that, as some other business preceded it on the Paper, he was not sure it would come on upon that day.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that one of the objections to the appointment of a Royal Commission was that a Commission would not look to economy. For one, he wished that the objection had been entertained before the appointment of the Royal Commission on the Thames Embankment, because the expenditure would be double what it would have been if the Commission had not been appointed.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, that the right hon. Gentleman the head of the Office of Works had practically asserted that his department was so perfect that no inquiry into it could be of any public benefit. Scarcely any more important question than that of public works could be brought before the House; but as regarded the works which had been mentioned, the House possessed no information, either as to their design or cost. During the last twenty years large sums of money had been voted by Parliament for public works; but whether they regarded design, estimates, or any other thing connected with them, there was nothing upon which the mind could rest with any degree of satisfaction. He attributed the repeated failures of the last twenty years to the want of the application of business principles. Who was responsible for the Houses in which they were then sitting? The enormous expenditure upon them was attributed to the action of various Committees and Commissions. But surely the Government ought to have undertaken tome degree of responsibility, and being at the helm should direct the course of the vessel. The proposal before the House could never be entertained unless it was entertained at that moment. He attributed much of the difficulty which occurred in dealing with the public buildings to the fact that the Government schemes were too often considered mere party questions, and, however good a particular plan suggested by one Government might be, no sooner was it out of office than it was thrown to the winds by its successor. For example, the
 1060
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he should propose on the following day that the House should on Thursday meet at six o'clock.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he could see no sufficient reason for postponing the Vote. It would have been better if the hon. and learned Member who made the Motion had yesterday announced that, although he did not then challenge the Vote by a division, he intended to take the sense of the House upon it on the report. That course had not been pursued, but still the House was probably full enough to take a decision upon the subject; and if any hon. Gentlemen were anxious that a more deliberate discussion should take place on the principle involved, they might give notice of a Resolution that in future years no such grant should be proposed. The only principle which he could see involved in the Vote was the principle of justice; for he had always felt that it was most unjust that persons who were by the law placed in seclusion should be deprived of the spiritual attendance of ministers of their own faith. When a person was at large, he might go to his own church; they were not then bound to supply his spiritual wants; but when they confined him within four walls, they were bound not only in justice, but as a matter of public expediency, to give to the Roman Catholic the benefit of religious instruction and the same chance of reformation which they gave to the Protestant.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he had no objection whatever to offer to the second reading of a Bill which had certainly been introduced for objects which in themselves were most admirable. Any encouragement that could be offered to the parties it was intended to benefit would, no doubt, be well bestowed. The only criticism to which the Bill was liable was, that it merely proposed to enable provident associations to do those very things which they would be enabled to do under the provisions of the measure already before the House, and which had been carefully framed with the view of including cases of that description. He was not prepared to say, however, that there might not be Provident Societies as to which the Bill might be said to take up different ground. Of course, he guarded himself against being supposed to admit that it would be expedient to have two Bills before the House at once, proposing to deal with the same matter; and it would be much more desirable if the Bill were limited to those objects that required to be specially dealt with in reference to associations of that particular kind; but if his right hon. Friend would give his assistance in making the provisions of the two Hills consistent, he should be quite satisfied with that assurance.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he had had some communication with the hon. Member for Dundalk (Sir G. Bowyer) on the subject of the Bill. It was thought it would be more convenient for the legal profession to take the discussion on Tuesday than on Wednesday, when they could not so well attend in their places.
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, he should support the clause, as he was not inclined to except the City from its operation. He hoped, however, that it would be carefully exercised, and that old landmarks would be preserved.
 MR. HEADLAM  remarked, that the Metropolitan Board already possessed the power of altering the names of streets in the City of London, and the clause merely provided for the continuation of the existing power. If no practical inconvenience had arisen from the exercise of that power, why should they introduce an exemption that was not in the former Act?
 MR. HEADLAM  said, he thought it would be much better not to place any limitation upon the discretion of the Secretary of State.
 VISCOUNT ENFIELD  said, he should oppose the Motion on the simple ground that so great a change, even if it were desirable, ought to be submitted to Parliament in the shape of a separate Bill.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he might refer to the Report of the Committee over which the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets had presided with such signal ability and patience, for the purpose of showing how slight was the foundation on which the hon. Member had built up his argument. He did not deny that greater weight might attach to the deliberations of the Metropolitan Board if the Members were directly elected; but he felt bound to express his sense of the extreme importance of maintaining in his present position the gentleman who now filled the office of Chairman of the Board of Works, and at the same time his marked admiration of the manner in which that gentleman had devoted his great talents and the whole of his time and attention to the extremely difficult and complicated duties connected with that office. He thought the present time singularly inappropriate for a sweeping change, when the Board was engaged in carrying out one of the largest constructive works ever undertaken.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he then rose to propose a number of clauses abolishing the existing mode of electing members of the Metropolitan Board of Works by the vestries, and providing that they should in future be elected annually at the same time as the members of the vestry, and by the persons entitled to vote in the election of vestrymen. The existing
 1102 "I wish to direct your serious attention to the Amendments proposed by Mr. Ayrton in the Metropolis Local Management Acts Amendment Act. They constitute, in fact, an insidious attempt to construct a democratic corporation for the whole metropolis, under cover of amending the law as relates to the management of a local Board. It is doubtful, I think, whether the introduction of such a scheme is admissible by the rules of Parliament as an amendment upon such a Bill, involving as it does a virtual repeal of Lord Llanover's Local Management Act. A body is proposed to be created which will consist of no less than 172 persons—an alarming fact—who will be intrusted with a vast power of rating, representing virtually population merely, without any counterbalance by which property will receive its fair share of influence. To construct an exclusive democratic chamber of this kind, speaking in the names and dealing with the destinies of three millions of people, appears to me a dangerous experiment, and one which I think Parliament is little prepared to deal with, unless it were by a Bill introduced upon the responsi-
 1103 (Signed) "WILLIAM CUBITI." "Mansion House." 1104
 MR. AYRTON  considered, there was no necessity for legislation on the subject.
 MR. AYRTON  explained, that he would leave the present constitution of the Board unchanged until the month of May, 1863, and that he would then have a third of the members elected, while another third should be elected in 1864 and another in 1865.
 MR. AYRTON  suggested, that on the bringing up of the report a more moderate proposal should be made.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he objected to the clause as it empowered the Board with the consent of the Home Secretary, to alter entirely the whole constitution of the Board. If the circumstances were so grave as to render a change necessary in the constitu-
 1100
 MR. AYRTON  said, he supposed that the changes would be made in the modern parts of the metropolis, and thought that, the discretion might well be left to the Board.
 MR. AYRTON  remarked, that the Go-
 1097
 MR. AYRTON  observed, that the definition given of the words "new street" would operate injuriously on the owners of property who had complied with the existing law, by compelling them to put down the solid pavement required, not by the owners, but by the growing wants of the whole neighbourhood. They might make the law with regard to subsequent acts as stringent as might be thought necessary; but he objected to a retrospective operation of the clause.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he desired to confine the definition "new street" to streets made after the passing of this Act. With a view, therefore, of leaving out all the words giving the clause a retrospective operation, he would move the omission of the words, "or which may have been formed or laid out since the 1st of January, 1856."
 MR. AYRTON  suggested, that instead of giving the powers objected to to the Board until the year 1865, the powers should be merely conferred for one year, and that 1863 should be substituted for 1865.
 MR. BRISTOW  said, he must oppose the clause. The Bill was an amending Bill only; and did not propose to deal with the constitution of the Metropolitan Board.
 MR. BRISTOW  said, he must object to the clause as altering the constitution of the District Board, as well as altering the constitution of the Metropolitan Board. Other parishes had made similar requests, but the Committee had not thought proper to grant them.
 MR. BRISTOW  said, he thought there was a considerable amount of equity in the suggested alteration, and he therefore assented to it.
 MR. BRISTOW  said, the justices must, of course, depend on the reports of the district boards and vestries. The duties of the justices, therefore, would be for the most part ministerial.
 MR. BRISTOW  said, he should support the clause, on the ground, amongst others, that it would greatly facilitate the postal service.
 MR. BRISTOW  remarked, that it had been decided by the Court of Common Pleas that the Board of Works already had the power by law of changing the names of streets within the City.
 MR. BRISTOW  said, he had to move the insertion after Clause 108, of a clause empowering the Metropolitan Board of Works with the sanction of the Secretary of State, to subdivide districts in schedule B, in case of increase of population.
 MR. BRISTOW  said, the clause merely left things as it found them.
 MR. BRISTOW  said, he had to move the addition of a clause saving the rights of the Crown and of the Duchy of Lancaster.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, he wished to move a new clause constituting Plumstead and Lewisham into separate districts, with power to send representatives to the Metropolitan Board of Works.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  considered the proposal monstrous.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, the clause appeared to him to be necessary to carry out the objects of the Bill. He would suggest, however, as a proviso, that the number of the Metropolitan Board should not be increased or diminished by any such alterations.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, he wished to draw attention to the state of certain houses in Stamford Street, and various other parts of the metropolis, which had remained in a dilapidated condition for many years. He thought some power
 1099
 LORD FERMOY  said, he would then bring up a clause to be inserted after Clause 95, giving vestries and district boards power to contract for the removal of manure from stables and cowhouses. His object was to deal with manure in the same manner as dust was dealt with, and to compel the owners of stables to remove their manure before it became a nuisance to the neighbourhood. During the winter months the manure was removed, because the farmers having then nothing else to do, it paid them to come into town to take it away; but in the summer months, when their avocations were numerous, the manure was allowed to accumulate in the metropolis. All the officers of health approved of the clause and testified to its necessity.
 MR. BRADY  said there were thirty or forty such houses, and they were not only a disgrace to London, but an injury to society, and he thought it would be a good remedy to make the owners of such property pay the rates and taxes, just as though the houses were occupied.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he rose to move the insertion after Clause 83 of the following clause:—
 "The ninety-ninth section of the firstly-recited Act is hereby repealed; and in lieu thereof, Be it Enacted, that whenever the freeholder of any court, passage, or public place, not being a thoroughfare, is vested in the same person or persons as the freehold of any adjoining house or houses, the owner or owners of such adjoining house or houses shall be deemed, for the purpose of the recited Acts and this Act, to be the owner or owners of such court, passage, or public place, and the paving thereof shall be done by such owner or owners, if so directed by the vestry or district board."
 MR. LOCKE  contended, that the assent of the several subdivisions of a district should be had before a separation was permitted.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he considered the proposition most unjust.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that he should move that the second reading be fixed for Wednesday next.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he felt an objection to the power given by the clause to the Metropolitan Board of Works to affix names to private residences. He hoped the Committee would not confer such a power on the Board, and that some thing like discretion would be used in giving new names to streets.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he proposed to add to the end of the clause a proviso, to the effect that it should not apply to
 1096
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, that the effect of the clause would be to induce outlying parishes to see how they might alter and carve matters to suit their own interests. It would be far better that any change should be made with more deliberation and better safeguards.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he had to propose that the following Clause should follow Clause 108:—
 "Nothing in this Act contained shall make the City of London or the Liberties thereof liable to contribute towards any of the expenses incurred or to be incurred by the Board under the provisions contained in' The Metropolis Gas Act,' 1860, or the Act to amend the Metropolis Gas Act, of
 1101
 MR. SLANEY  suggested, that the Board should take a hint from the American cities, where the streets, when not numbered, were called after the names of certain trees.
 MR. SLANEY  said, he wished to thank his right hon. Friend for the very able and excellent manner in which he had brought forward the Bill. After the experience they had acquired of the working of the present Acts, the large number of persons who availed themselves of them, and the great advantages which had resulted from them in stimulating industry and forethought, the House was bound by every consideration to give fair play and power of extension to these Friendly Societies. He gave every credit to the hon. and learned Solicitor General for the pains he had taken on this subject, but there might be some points still that required alteration. These societies had grown up in such numbers and with such capital that they required additional means to enable them to spread their benefits to other places and in their own districts. Why should they not be permitted to have a larger amount of land? And why not also allow them to engraft on their societies the powers given by the Act for limiting the liability of partners? The members of those societies would thus have much greater facilities than they now possessed for acquiring by
 1095
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he rose to move the second reading of this Bill, the object of which was to improve and consolidate the existing Acts relating to co-operative societies. The history of these societies was somewhat curious. When they first came into existence, their capital was formed of contributions of 2 d d 1091 1092 1093
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he thought it was unadvisable that there should be two conflicting authorities, and he would therefore suggest, that before the Metropolitan Board of Works changed the names of streets within the City, they should consult with the corporation.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  observed, that he did not regard the mere assent of the Secretary of State as a sufficient safeguard for the proper application of the powers of the clause.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he thought that all the parishes that were benefited by the Gas Act ought to contribute to the expense of it.
 MR. ANGERSTEIN  said, he wished to move a clause to the effect that the several parishes of the Plumstead District Board of Works, including Plumstead, Eltham, Lee, Slidbrooke, and Charlton, should, on the 1st of January, 1863, cease to be united and form one district; and that the parish of Plumstead should form one district, and that there should be a Board of Works for such district. The Secretary for War had no objection to the clause.
 MR. COX  said, the clause might as well be struck out if the powers were only given to the Board for twelve months.
 MR. COX  said, that the inhabitants of Finsbury had a right to complain of the Metropolitan Board of Works, who, having taken the matter out of the hands of the promoters of the original Bill for the making of the park, had failed to carry out the Act which they obtained for that purpose.
 MR. COX  said, he hoped that if power were granted to the Board, they would use it with discretion, and preserve the old names and landmarks in the City with which they were associated.
 MR. COX  said, the City was exempted by the Acts from the expenses, and he did not see why they should be incidentally charged with them.
 MR. COX  suggested, that the clause should be applicable only to districts possessing 2,000 rateable houses.
 MR. W. EWART  said, he wished to move the insertion of a clause continuing the powers of the Finsbury Park Act until the 17th August, 1865.
 MR. W. EWART  said, he would not object to the alteration.
 MR. TITE  said, he should oppose the clause as unnecessary.
 MR. TITE  said, the clause had been carefully prepared to meet the great evils which had arisen from the circumstance of the district Boards being called on to put down expensive drainage to a few houses built at a distance from existing roads. The operation of the Bill would only extend back to the period when the jurisdiction of the Board originated.
 MR. TITE  explained, that great confusion was occasioned by the multiplication of the same names in different parts of the metropolis, and that it was desirable the Board should have the power in question.
 MR. TITE  said, he thought the clause went altogether too far.
 MR. TITE  said, the clause applied only to the outlying parishes.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the authorities had a remedy when the houses became in a dangerous state. If the houses were not dangerous, the only remedy at present was for the owners of the adjoining property to purchase them.
 MR. BRAND  said, he might be allowed to state, for the convenience of the House, that the first order for to-morrow would be the Markets and Fairs (Ireland) Bill. It had been the intention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to take the Customs and Inland Revenue Bill first, but the representations made to him that day by a deputation had induced him to postpone
 1106
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, then surely there was no necessity for the clause. The City had no right to come to the House and say that they were not liable to the expenses of those Gas Acts, one object of the Acts being to test the purity of the gas. The City had the benefit of the Act, and it was monstrous that the City should receive the benefit and seek to throw the expense on the rest of the metropolis.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he always found that whenever a proposition for change was brought forward, somebody was sure to find out that it was not the proper time. He had always been a supporter of the Metropolitan Board, and he entertained the very highest opinion of the gentleman who presided over the Board; but there could be no doubt that their influence would be increased by the adoption of the principle of direct election. Surely, if that body had been elected by the public, he thought that the chairman would have met with as much
 1105
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that the outlying districts, which when the original Act was passed were only green fields, were now portions of the metropolis, and therefore it was necessary to create such a power as that which was contained in the clause. He thought, however, that no division of any parish should take place unless the new district contained not less than 50,000 inhabitants.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, it was only by the neglect of the House of Commons that the City was exempt from that liability. The City shared in the benefit of these Acts, and he did not see why the City should not bear its share of the expense.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he thought the limit of increase should be fixed, and it ought to be clearly defined under what circumstances the subdivision should take place.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, it would be impossible for the justices of the peace to carry out the various duties imposed on them by the clause.
 COLONEL DUNNE  suggested, that the system should be applied in Ireland which had been adopted in this country—of the appointment of special persons for this purpose. Without such amendment the plan would never be popular in Ireland.
 MR. DAWSON  said, he regretted that the registration of marriages was not proposed to be dealt with by the Bill. He acknowledged the difficulty of dealing with
 1112
 MR. PEEL  was understood to say, that he had been informed by the Post Office authorities, that if they used the railway instead of the steamers between Cork and Dublin, it would only effect a saving of about thirty-five minutes, but that would not obviate the delay which sometimes arose between Kingstown and Holyhead, which was the more important matter. The Post Office authorities, in communication with the directors of the railway, had found that there would be considerable difficulty in running express trains at any hour of the night. Under these circumstances it was intended to continue the present arrangements.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he would venture to suggest to the Government, in reference to the notice of Motion given by the hon. and learned Member for Cork (Mr. V. Scully) that this Bill be recommitted, that that course would be the more convenient one, as there were a great many Amendments on the paper to be considered, It should be remembered, that upon the third reading it would not be competent to make any Amendments in the Bill, however much the clauses which might be agreed to at the present stage of the Bill should clash with the clauses already passed.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, if it were
 1107
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he wished to propose some Amendments in clause 12, with the view of exempting from the necessity of weighing at the public weighing houses goods sold in the shop, place of business, or dwelling-place of the seller.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  intimated that the Government could not assent to the Amendments which the hon. Member for Cork proposed to introduce. They struck at the root of compulsory weighing, which the House had already adopted, and to which he hoped it would adhere.
 MR. MASSEY  remarked, that the proposal was really one to substitute a now clause for the clause in the Bill, and therefore it could not be submitted in the shape of an Amendment. The proper way was to bring up a clause embodying the Amendment.
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, that in the absence of his right hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Whiteside), he wished to move the insertion of certain words in Clause 24, for the purpose of making it incumbent on the managers of markets to supply returns of quantities sold, and average prices.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that it was impossible for the Government to agree to the Amendment, and he thought it would be unwise to force them to obtain these returns. They would do so if they could, without specifically binding themselves by adopting the Amendment.
 MR. L0NGFIELD  moved an Amendment empowering the Lord Lieutenant and Council to allow such persons as they might consider interested in the question to appear upon an application with reference to the holding of a market or fair.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he thought the Amendment would be very useful.
 MR. M'MAHON  suggested, that it ought to have been framed more liberally. Why should not any person who was interested have the right to appear without consent first obtained from the Lord Lieutenant and Council?
 MR. LONGFIELD  maintained that the interests of the public would be sufficiently protected by the Amendment as it stood.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  said, he thought the clause would lead to abuses. He had received remonstrances against the clause from the Chamber of Commerce of Dublin.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  did not think there was any foundation for the objections to the clause on the part of some merchants. There was a special clause in the Bill to meet cases of sale by sample.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, the only object of the clause was to remedy what was felt to be an inconvenience. The machines would be under the control of the weighing master, and would be a matter of general convenience.
 LORD FERMOY  said, that nothing could justify the introduction of such a clause but the conviction that great fraud in weighing was practised in the country. He was of opinion that it would defeat the object contemplated by the Bill.
 MR. VANCE  objected to the measure because it imposed compulsory weighing.
 MR. GEORGE  complained that Irish Members had been taken by surprise, as they were given to understand that the Bill would not come on that evening.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that before Easter he distinctly stated that the measure would be brought forward that night, and he could not understand why it should not then be taken into consideration.
 MR. MONSELL  suggested, that the Bill should be recommitted  pro formâ
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, the new clauses (which had been drawn up with great care) were proposed solely with a view to carry out the wishes of the House.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he believed that there was a unanimous feeling in Ireland that the Bill should not apply to merchants dealing in foreign grain, who were not in the habit of using the market at all, but who conducted their business in the Corn Exchange. He thought, however, that it ought to apply to the class of traders who bought corn in small quantities throughout the country and then brought it to the neighbourhood of a large town, where they sold it by sample in the market. It was not right that they should be allowed to evade the tolls, and the clause should therefore apply to them.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, the only thing he had understood in the discussion was the proposal of his right hon. Colleague, that the Bill should be re-committed.
 LORD FERMOY  said, that he thought the new clauses which had been added to the Bill would press very hard upon small dealers. In fact, those clauses had the effect of completely remodelling the character of the Bill. In order that the country should be afforded ample time for considering the Bill in its present shape, he should move that the Chairman do now re port progress.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he hoped hon. Members would clearly understand that he really had not the slighest desire to press the Bill forward in any unreasonable manner, and without allowing the fullest opportunity for its discussion. What he proposed was, that the Bill should be allowed to pass the Committee in its amended shape; and that when reprinted ample
 1110
 MR. BRADY  asked, whether it was the intention of the right hon. Baronet to recommit the Bill.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, it was not.
 COLONEL DICKSON  observed, that no doubt the Irish Members had expected that a different topic would have been under discussion that evening, the announcement to the contrary not having been made until Wednesday evening.
 MR. CARDWELL  explained, that the course adopted by the Government really afforded unusual opportunities for consideration and discussion.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, he also could state that owing to the circumstances; of the day, several hon. Members were absent who wished to take part in the discussion.
 MR. VANCE  said, that acting upon what he believed to be good authority, he had told the committee of commerce in Dublin that there was no chance of the Bill going through till next week. The measure was looked upon with great anxiety in Ireland, lest it should prove fatal to the corn trade of Dublin, a bonus of 3 s
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, it was quite clear that it would be for the convenience of the House to have the Bill with his right hon. Friend's Amendments considered. If, therefore, they went through Committee  pro formâ
 MR. MONSELL  said, he would admit that the proposition was a fair one.
 MR. VANCE  said, he thought the proposal of the noble Lord a most reasonable one, and that it ought to be at once accepted.
 MR. DAWSON  said, he should support the clause. Stray dogs throughout the country did great mischief in worrying cattle and destroying sheep.
 MR. BRADY  said, he should oppose the clause as most unjust and tyrannical.
 MR. BRADY  said, he strongly objected to the employment of the police in the capacity of registrars under the Bill. A system of registration was much wanted in Ireland; but in selecting the persons to work that system, their ability to perform the work, and not the lowness of the salaries they would require, ought to be the main consideration. No system of registration could ever be successful unless it were carried out by the agency of medical gentlemen. That remark applied especially to the case of Ireland. The people of that country would revolt against permitting a common policeman to enter their houses for the purpose of registering the birth of a new-born child. A. few nights ago objection was taken to the military character of the police of Ireland. Much as the Irish people objected to the police discharging military duties, they would object still more to their discharging the social and domestic duties which by this Bill would devolve upon them. He considered that
 1113
 MR. GEORGE  observed, that the clause might be emphatically described as the poor man's clause. It was his conviction that it would be extremely useful in Ireland.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. HENNESSY  objected to the clause, as, if passed, it would lead to great hardships. It gave power to a magistrate to issue his warrant to search a house; and if stolen goods were found there, the person in possession of the house was to be held responsible.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he should propose a Resolution to prevent the employment of the police in collecting information under this Bill. The course now suggested in the Bill was quite different from that pursued in England or in any other country, and the only result of employing the police would be to render that force highly unpopular. Neither were ordinary constables qualified for the duty. In one of the forms appended to the Act a cause of death was described as "pneumonia," and the form was signed "John Cox, constable." But what did "John Cox, constable," know about pneumonia? Probably he would be unable to spell the word. In the Bill a provision had been copied from the English Act, and it proposed that any sub-constable or other policeman who should mislay a leaf of the registration-book, which he would be bound to keep, should be liable to a penalty of £50. That was a ridiculous provision. There were other persons who could be employed upon those duties with more advantage than the police, as, for instance, the dispensary officers. There were also the clerks of the Poor Law Unions. Nothing would be more unpopular than the employment of the police, and it would put the police themselves in an unpleasant position, and make them still more unpopular. He hoped the Irish Members would support the Resolution which he would move,
 "That this House is of opinion that it is not expedient to employ the Police as the Registrars of Births and Deaths in Ireland."
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he should gladly support a Bill for a system of registration, but he could not adopt the worst possible machinery that the ingenuity of man could devise. In evidence before a Committee of that House, Mr. Senior had stated that the employment of the police for purposes of this kind was monstrous and unconstitutional. It was true, on the other hand, that Colonel Brownrigg had said that the constabulary would best carry out the scheme; but he added that it would be an auxiliary in the detection of crime. Would that be likely to render it popular? A Bill like the present would fill the public mind with suspicion, and raise up every
 1114
 MR. LEADER  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether his attention has been drawn to the delay that occurs between the arrival of the American Mails in Queenstown Harbour and their being placed on the Cork and Dublin Railway for transmission to England; and whether he is aware that by using the Queenstown Railway a considerable saving of time could be effected?
 MR. MONSELL  objected to having the police being appointed to carry out the objects of the Bill, acting as they did under a central authority; but he did not see why they might not be appointed by the Boards of Guardians.
 CAPTAIN STACPOOLE  said, he wished to propose a clause, imposing a fine of 10 s
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  said, he also considered that the police were not the right body for the employment. He did not wish to say a word against the force, but he did not wish the peasantry of Ireland to find the police set to do everything. If the constables had not enough to do, let their number be reduced.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, the Amendment struck at one of the main features of the Bill; and if it were approved, it would necessitate the proposal of some other plan. Having given attention to the suggestions offered, he had come to the decided opinion that no body of men in Ireland were so capable efficiently and satisfactorily to discharge these duties as the constabulary. The medical officers would not undertake it for the money. Postmasters would be unequal to the task. Ecclesiastics of different denominations would not accept the responsibility. Persons being nominated by the Lord Lieutenant would throw too much patronage into the hands of the Irish Executive, and persons being elected by Boards of Guardians would lead to all kinds of jobbery. Upon the whole the constabulary were the best fitted for the purpose. They were very popular in Ireland, and had been engaged in preparing the census, in obtaining agricultural statistics, and in other duties of a kindred nature. The question, however, as to the persons who should be employed to carry out the measure was premature; it ought to be reserved until the Bill reached Committee, and therefore he hoped the hon. Gentleman would not persevere in his Amendment.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he must oppose the clause, as it was inconsistent with the provisions of the measure. If the hon. and gallant Member attached any importance to the subject, the better way would be for him to bring in a Dog Bill.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  suggested, that the best plan would be to extend the Dog Tax to Ireland.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that the course adopted by those who moved the present Resolution was not very consistent with the opinions they had expressed with regard to the Bill. They professed themselves exceedingly anxious to have a system of registration in Ireland, but when the Government called upon them to affirm that principle, by agreeing to the second reading, they interposed a Motion which did not belong to that stage of the discussion, and which was perfectly fit to be proposed in Committee. He trusted, therefore, they would allow the Bill to be read, and when they came to the clause in Committee relating to the machinery they could discuss that question.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, there was no wish whatever on the part of the Government to deprive the House of the fullest opportunity of discussing this question. It would, probably, be his duty to propose that an additional sum should be taken beyond the loan two years ago. That would render it necessary that a Bill should be brought in; there would, therefore, be ample opportunity for discussion on the subject.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he had to state, in answer to his noble Friend, that the names of the persons proposed to form the commission to which he referred had already been submitted to Her Majesty, and the Commission would be issued shortly.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Treasury and the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Why certain Returns and Correspondence, moved for by him nearly two months ago, have not been furnished?
 MR. PEEL  stated, that it was the balance of a larger debt to the Crown, which was kept on both sides of the account in hopes that, at some time, the property of the bankrupts might be made available for repayment to the Crown.
 MAJOR KNOX  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary for Ireland, When the Papers he moved for connected with the tampering with the Tyrone Grand Jury Panel, will he laid on the table, as he was anxious to give the Government an opportunity of stating what course they intend to pursue to prevent the recurrence of such conduct at the Summer Assizes.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether there are any troops in China not included in the numbers in the Estimate or estimated for; and whether, if there be any Troops in China, those Troops receive the Indian Pay and Allowances; also whether they are paid out of the Treasury Chest, or if not, from what fund?
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he understood the hon. and gallant Officer the Member for Portarlington (Colonel Dunne) to refer in his question to the Estimate of the present year beginning on the 1st of April last. The latest returns which had been received from China were dated 1st of January, 1862. At that date there were 1,560 of all ranks of native troops in China. That number was not included in the Estimates for the current year, inasmuch as it was expected that the force would have returned to India. It was not, however, possible at present to make the change, and a body of native troops would still remain in China. With regard to Captain Jackson's Report, he could only say it had received careful consideration, and a Vote had been proposed in the Army Estimates by which it would be possible for the War Office to carry out its recommendation. The iron house to which reference had been made belonged to the War Office, and, no doubt, it was acquired with the intention of converting it into a soldiers' home; but since the Vote passed, it had been represented that its situation was inconvenient and ill-suited for its purpose, and it was in so conspicuous a part of the camp that the men would probably be deterred from going there. That was the explanation of the pause in making the final arrangement, but he was nevertheless inclined to carry into effect the recommendation.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he believed that according to the original plan the fort alluded to was to have been erected upon the breakwater, but upon reconsideration it was thought more advisable that it should be erected in the sea, near the breakwater. The foundation would not be composed of stones thrown down in the same way as the breakwater, but would be a nearly perpendicular wall. He was sorry that the hon. Gentleman had not brought the question forward during the debate upon the Spithead forts, there being a close affinity between the two questions.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he regretted the hon. Gentleman's inquiries had been so recent, as it would have been more convenient if the House had had both questions under its notice at the same time. He would, however, make this offer to the hon. Gentleman—he had no objection to refer it to the Defence Commission which had now the subject of the Spithead forts for its consideration, to inquire and report upon the policy of proceeding with the insulated fort in Plymouth Sound. He would not undertake to stop the works, but would undertake to make the reference immediately, and he had no doubt the Report would be ready in a limited time.
 MR. MAGURE  said, he rose to call attention to the fact that several Deaths from Starvation have occurred recently in Ireland; to ask whether the Government have received official information of such cases having occurred; and, if so, whether they have taken or are about to take any steps in consequence; also, whether they have any objection to lay upon the table all the Reports, Communications, and Correspondence in reference to such cases? Referring to the notice which the hon. and
 1135 1136 1137 1138 1139 "One of the most painful aggravations of the sufferings of the people is that a general impression has gone abroad that the Government, whose first duty one would think it is to save the lives of the people—(for what other purpose do they hold the reins of Government—to what other purpose do the taxation, the armaments, &c, of the country tend?)—not only neglect this duty themselves, but regard with disfavour every effort to save them. It seems to be generally understood that the truly patriotic and charitable exertions of the several relief Committees, without whose interference thousands would have died of cold and hunger, are opposed to the views of Government; and no Government official, no expectant of Government favours, it would seem, can take any part in them, or even publicly contribute to their funds. No doubt we enjoy very great liberty in this country. Where is there any other country on the face of the globe where there is such liberty to starve?" "Newport, Mayo, April 26, 1862. "Dear Sir,—You will perceive in the public papers the resolutions adopted by the clergy of the Westport Deanery, on the 23rd inst., proclaiming to the Government the appalling distress now terribly felt by the people of this mountainous district. I beg respectfully to draw your attention particularly to the deplorable condition of my parish. This parish numbers 1,090 families, scattered over an area of 21 by 10 miles, principally mountainous—all chiefly subsisting on the potato crop. There has been a complete failure of this staple food of the people—add to this dire scarcity of food during the winter, and you will form some estimate of the people's sufferings. The pressure arising from the two-fold calamity has now come to such a crisis that, unless the Government immediately intervene to aid the people, death from starvation will be the inevitable consequence. There was every effort made by local contributions to meet the scarcity of fuel in the parish during the past season; but at present no amount of foreign or local charity can cope with the prevailing want of food. "I hope you will earnestly press upon the Government the necessity of attending to their claims.—I have the honour to be, your obedient humble servant, "RICHARD PRENDERGAST, "P.P., Newport, Mayo." 1140 "That the false representations of Government officials, and others who studiously endeavour to conceal from the gaze of the civilized world the real state of the country, are equally inhuman and unchristian, and deserve the unqualified censure of every enlightened man, no matter of what land or country." Belfast News News "That for a considerable time past the people of his parish had been enduring the most trying
 1141 "So you may easily judge of the condition of my flock, and of the dreary prospects before them. The Government, it appears, is still deaf to the cries of the indigent, as well as to the appeals made in their behalf." 1142 "Anthony Prendergast, having consumed the last meal of potatoes, and burned the last fire he could place on the hearthstone, with his wife and throe children, abandoned his wretched cabin, and proceeded to the town to seek employment. The father carried one of the children on his back, the mother bore another folded in her arms, while the third child followed, with bleeding feet and a wail of suffering, which told of the pain and hunger he endured. They had scarcely entered the town when the exhausted mother complained that she felt a cold weight pressing on her heart, and, taking aside the rags in which the child was rolled, she found it was his corpse. He had died in her aims of hunger and cold. It was truly a spectacle of woe to see that emaciated, naked, shivering group bewailing that little departed creature in the centre of a public street." Galway Vindicator "In an entry, off Lower Cross Street, there is an old house, for years forsaken by tenants of any grade of society. In the cellar of this dilapidated building (the ceiling of which was but partially covered) lay a poor man, named James Murphy, in the arms of death, he had suffered long from the want of the necessaries of life, ending in a series of other complaints, which brought him to an untimely grave. An old woman, who came from time to time to attend him, told us that she advised him to go to the poorhouse before he died, and his words were, Throw me out into the sink
 1143 post mortem Connaught Patriot "I am exhausted visiting the sick and dying, and it is with feelings of the deepest regret I have to record the names of Edmund Concannen, Robert Sullivan, Mary Nee, Honor Mannion, and others, who have died within the last five days for want of food or nourishment." "I have this week administered the rites of the Church to four of my poor parishioners, who died of starvation." "The following persons died from starvation in this parish within the month of March last:— John Taylor on the 15th; his wife Bridget on the 16th; Mary Kilcullinon the 21st; Thady Stein, on the 28th." "These poor people were beyond recovery when I was called on to administer to them the rites of the Church. I have no doubt but many others will meet with an untimely grave, unless immediately succoured. My scanty resources are ex-
 1144 "Castletown Berehaven, April 5th, 1862. "My dear Mr. Maguire,—A woman of the name of Neil died a few weeks ago near this town, and her friends assured me that her death arose from a total want of such food as she could in her illness make use of. It was I who prepared her for death, and while I was in the house I made a close examination of it, and could not discover one particle of any kind of provisions. At this time the family (eight in number—four adults, and four children) were obliged to subsist on 1½ stone of meal per week, allowed them by the Vincent de Paul Society. This very day an inquest was held in the next parish, Kilcatherine, on the body of a girl named Mary Murphy. Her father swore that for several days his family had but one meal, and that an insufficient one, per day to live on; that on Saturday the 29th July. he gave his child a little stirabout, which she at once threw up again; that at this moment he had not a morsel of food nor a penny in his house; and that his mother-in-law and another child of his died about a month ago from the same want of proper food. The child's uncle, James Shea swore that for the last three months this family was always without a sufficiency and often without a particle of any kind of food. "The M.D. swore that Mary Murphy had scrofula and disease of lungs, which could be super induced by bad and spare diet, and that her death was greatly hastened by said insufficiency of food. All who were examined swore that such scenes as occurred in this family were now to be found commonly in the district. Those present at the inquest subscribed a small sum each for this poor Murphy. The coroner declared he never saw so many symptoms of distress." "I am writing in much haste—these are the facts—make the best use of them. "Do you remember Mr. Puxley's (our Chairman of Board of Guardians) letter to Sir R. Peel? I answered it most strongly in the  Examiner "JOHN O'LEARY, R.C.C." "On Friday evening a man named Sweeny died of exhaustion from want of food, in the outskirts of Tuam. I was at Mass on Sunday by the side of a man who, as soon as he reached his miserable home, fell on the floor from exhaustion. I don't wish to give his name, but I saw the case. I am sure, if inquests were held, it would be found that many, many had died of destitution." 1145 "But this moment I am after performing the funeral service of our holy religion in the church over the remains of Margaret Larkin, who died on yesterday in the village of Ballyconlaught. A few days since she was found on the roadside by a carman, who charitably placed her in his cart, and conveyed her to the house where she died. She applied for relief some months since, but was refused (though she was after receiving the last rites of her religion), unless she went to the workhouse, which is a distance of ten Irish miles.…After I attended her I sent for the doctor and the relieving officer, who lived miles off. The doctor certified she could not he removed to the workhouse, and she got provisional relief. On the Tuesday following she got 3 s "On the day after, I attended a poor starving man named Kelly, who got shelter also from Mr. Wilson, near Headford. On the same day I administered to the father, the mother, and the daughter (their names were Walsh), in the town-land of Bally hale. They were stretched in a little room, sick of malignant fever. They did not want for food, but they wanted fuel, as the nurse could not procure as much fire as would warm for them a little milk. The mother and daughter are since dead. On the same day, and in the same village, I attended a man named Gray, who lay in a hovel six feet by ten, and in it was the bed of his daughter, her husband, and child. Even during the awful famine of 1846–7 I never met such an object. The doctor certified that he was unfit to be removed to the workhouse. Still the committee which was appointed by the Poor Law Commissioners for Headford refused him relief. And in the same village, and on the same day, I visited a family named Glynne, and on yesterday.I woman named Joyce was buried who walked three Irish miles to see the Headford relief committee and tell them her state, but there was no committee meeting. She came home, lay down in her cabin and died, and after her death the relieving officer sent her provisional relief." 1146 Morning News "The wife of the deceased deposed that she brought him some food at three o'clock p.m., of which he was unable to partake. Being in a weak and sickly condition, she urged him to desist from work; but he replied that he would ' try and finish his day, as if he did not, what would she and the children do?' He made another attempt to work, got still weaker, and at length fell senseless in the field. He was placed on a car by some neighbours working in an adjoining field, and brought home, when, after lingering for some hours, he expired. This witness added that during the winter and spring deceased and his family were on many days without a meal, and could not have subsisted only for the assistance rendered them by the Gort relief committee; hut that since the committee, compelled by the exhaustion of their funds, struck off from the list of recipients the families of all labouring persons, deceased and his family were reduced to a starving condition. She also stated that they were not in possession of any bed-clothing, and that deceased used to sleep with no other covering than the remnants of an old coat." "We find that John Ford's death was caused by the utter state of destitution in which he continued to exist for the past winter and spring, being nearly always destitute of food and bed-clothing. "We are further of opinion that a judicious distribution of out-door relief to the labouring poor, who entertain a strong aversion to entering union workhouses, is very desirable, and would enable them to hear the severities of this trying season, with which private benevolence is entirely unable to contend." 1147 1148 "I am desirous to call your attention, and that of other Irish Members, to the position in which landlords, especially those who are life-tenants of their estates, who wish to improve their estates and employ the people, are now placed. From some unaccountable reason the loans from the Board of Works, which were originally fixed not to exceed £10,000 on any estate, are now limited to £5,000; consequently those landlords who may have expended that amount are now restricted from further improvement. In my own case I applied originally for the full sum of £10,000, which was granted, and I calculated of course on carrying out improvements to that extent. I find myself now suddenly stopped. It appears to me, that as Government call upon us landlords to assist the people in trying seasons, they should at least carry out the measures and means which they originally offered to us." 1149
 MR. DAWSON  said, that there could be no question that a succession of inclement seasons, a deficiency in the produce of the soil, and a diminution of trade in the manfacturing districts had given rise to considerable distress. In certain parts of Ireland an amelioration in the condition of the people had not been contemporaneous, as might have been hoped, with the advance of spring. There had been a serious, but he trusted only a temporary, depression, which, though severe in some places, was not, in his opinion, sufficient to retard either advancing prosperity or the general improvement of the country, He had endeavoured to collect the best information he could with respect to the condition of the people, and his belief was, though there was great want in many places, no famine existed or need be apprehended. Markets were low and plentifully supplied; food was abundant; and the wages of daily labour were not in amount reduced. If applications for Poor Law relief were to be taken as any test, there had been in all the unions in the north of Ireland, and he believed in other parts, a reduction, gradual certain but still sensible, in the number of admissions. He had always regarded the Poor Law as the only safe and creditable public machinery for the administration of public relief. Local assistance from private benevolence had been liberally given, and would be continued so long as a necessity for its exercise existed. It was their duty, however, to curb rather than foster the disinclination to accept Union relief, for it was always attended by order and discipline. Whether the poor-rate might not be made lovable on all descriptions of property was a subject which had lately engaged the attention of many philanthropists in Ireland; and he believed the plans for extending its operation and facilitating its collection might well occupy the attention of that House at
 1150 1151
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, he confessed he was astonished at the tone of the gallant Member who spoke last. Had the speech of the hon. Member for Dungarvan been intended as an attack upon the Government, he should have expected the hon. and gallant Gentleman to address the House in his character of a relation of the Chief Secretary. But the hon. Member for Dungarvan had had no such intention, nor had he presented himself in any way as a mendicant to the English Treasury or people. If the Irish people only received reasonable aid, in the shape of loans from those Imperial funds to which they equally contributed with the rest of the kingdom, they would be able to tide over their period of difficulty. It had been said that the relief works carried on during the famine lamentably failed; but their failure was due to the want of foresight and proper management rather than to any other cause. There was no reason to suppose that under a better system they would not answer their object. The main lines of railway were those which least required encouragement from the State. The branch and extension lines, on the other hand, which, though useful, could not be looked upon as a profitable investment, had a claim to such support. He hoped that the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary was by that time impressed with the opinion that there was great distress in Ireland, which would doubtless be much increased within the next few months and what the people of Ireland asked was not charity, but employment, through the medium of advances for reproductive works.
 SIR ROBERT PEET : I never said so.
 SIR HENRY BRUCE  said, that as representing a constituency in the north of Ireland very different in its condition from the one alluded to, as it was described by the hon. Member for Dungarvan, he would beg leave to observe that he believed that neither of the Members of the city of Cork complained of the distress to which the hon. Member had alluded; and he was quite sure, if distress existed in Belfast, there was sufficient charity, wealth and intelligence in that town to remedy the evil without applying to Parliament. If his (Sir H. Bruce's) part of the country had been in such a state of suffering as was described, it was not in that House that he should have endeavoured to raise sym-
 1179 1180
 MR. PEEL  said, barrack-masters must complete ten years of service before they were entitled to any pension. His hon. and gallant Friend, however, was mistaken in supposing that the Treasury could measure out the retiring pensions of barrack-masters with reference to their military services. The War Office, no doubt, had laid it down that no person should he appointed to the office of barrack-master who had not served in the army for a certain period, but that regulation was for the benefit of the army rather than of the public service. It was for the benefit of the army that officers should have a monopoly of offices of this nature. It was important that the Treasury in awarding these pensions should adhere strictly to the spirit of the Superannuation Act. In all cases coming under the 4th section of that Act the Government looked to the nature of the office to be filled rather than to the particular services which the officer filling it for the time being had performed.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for War, When the Royal Commission will be issued which is to inquire into the position and prospects of the Volunteer force?
 MR. DENMAN  said, he could not give a positive answer to the question. He was quite ready to proceed with the inquiry; but the Baron de Bode was, and had for some time, been absent in Russia. He had communicated with him, asking if it was his wish to proceed; for he felt it was not desirable for the interests of justice or the interests of the Baron de Bode to proceed with the inquiry in his absence. Until he knew that the Baron was anxious for the re-appointment of the Committee, he certainly should not move for it.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  replied, that the Defence Commission was composed of officers of both services, and was competent, therefore, to express an opinion upon the naval as well as the military part of the question.
 LORD HOTHAM  said, he wished to appeal to the Government not to proceed with the Merchant Shipping Bill at that hour (twelve o'clock). The first order was Supply; and if it were too late to proceed in Committee, they ought not to take other business. It was unusual, unreasonable, and in his humble opinion improper, to enter upon fresh matter not in order upon the Votes.
 LORD HOTHAM  said, he objected to that course.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of the Treasury, Whether he can give any information regarding an "available balance" due from Messrs. Duncan and Hutchinson, which has appeared on both debit and credit sides of the financial accounts for the last ten or fifteen years?
 MAJOR O'REILLY  said, he would bow at once to the correction of the right hon. Baronet, that he never said there was no distress in Ireland. But if he remembered rightly, he said, in effect, that there was no reason to apprehend any extraordinary distress, or anything beyond the distress that always existed in all parts of the world. The right hon. Baronet, of course, never meant that Ireland was such an Elysium that no distress existed there; but he said there was no unusual distress—nothing like severe pressure. It was therefore with decided pleasure he had heard him express a great sympathy with the existing and wide-spread suffering, the existence of which he had acknowledged that evening. But the right hon. Gentleman had put forward several arguments to show that the distress was not extending; with that view he had pointed to the diminished number of paupers in the workhouses; but Dr. Brodie, the official Poor Law Inspector, stated that the number of persons in the workhouse afforded no test of the amount of destitution in a district. The right hon. Gentleman also compared the number of the inmates of the workhouses now with the number ten years ago; but he forgot to make allowance for the diminished number of the population. Another proof that distress was not extending in Ireland was, he said, the diminished amount of crime in that country. He (Major O'Reilly) accepted the testimony with pleasure, but some portion should be set down to the good character of the people of Ireland. It should not all be put down to the absence of destitution. Again, the right hon. Baronet argued that the price of food was not higher now than in former years. He admitted it; but could that be any relief to those who had no money to purchase food at all? The price of food was an indication of the degree of distress over a whole country, but not of the distress of particular localities. The right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland then passed on to a general assertion that the allegations of distress in Ireland were due to a small and peculiar party who, since 1859, had made a virulent attack upon the Irish Poor Law, and associated the objections to the administration of that law in Ireland in some mysterious manner, which he (Major O'Reilly) could not understand, with the universal politics of Europe. He could only say he had never known that in this country men were to be supposed to attack the whole Govern-
 1169 1170 1171 1172
 MAJOR O'REILLY  said, he would congratulate the Irish Members and the people of Ireland on the change that appeared to have taken place in the opinions of the right hon. Baronet. A few months ago, the right hon. Gentleman stated, boldly and confidently, that there was no distress whatever in Ireland.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he also advocated the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he would not at that hour go into a discussion of the policy of her Majesty's Government in reference to China, but would merely observe that
 1187
 MR. LAYARD  said, it was well known that the Italian Government had shown great liberality in their commercial policy towards this country. It was quite true that they had sent Signor Mariani, an eminent Member of the Italian Chamber, as a special Commissioner to this country to negotiate such a treaty.
 MR. LAYARD  replied, that no such information had been received by the Government, He believed that some time ago, either last year or the year before, on the general disarmament taking place in Syria, a portion of the followers of
 1126
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, he would assent to the proposition of the hon. Baronet.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether information has been received that the Turkish Government was requiring from Abdel Kader the dismissal of his Algerian Guards, who were the means, under his command and direction, of saving great numbers of Christian lives during the late massacres at Damascus; and whether the British Government, who are parties to the transactions in Syria, approve of such a return being made to him for such services?
 COLONEL FRENCH  stated, that on the 7th of April he moved for a return of the services of the late barrack-master at Sheffield, and the retiring allowance granted to him. He held the paper in his hand, which showed the great injustice with which this distinguished and meritorious class of officers were treated. Here was an officer, after thirty-eight years of military and civil service, granted only the paltry pittance of 3 s d 1184 1185 Army List 1186
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he would express a hope that his right hon. Friend (Mr. M. Gibson) would take more extended powers than the Bill contained with regard to compulsory pilotage. He hoped, also, that he would introduce a provision to relieve masters and owners from the consequences of any accident that might occur to a vessel under the compulsory charge of a pilot. He also had to complain that the Bill did not go far enough on the subject of lighting the coasts of Great Britain and Ireland. The House probably were not aware of the enormous sum of money that was wasted in the lighting of our coasts. The cost of lighting the coasts of this country was somewhere in excess of £200,000, whereas the cost of lighting the whole coast of France was about £48,000. The same irregularity and want of system existed in respect of the buoys placed round the coast. The system of pilotage ought to be carefully considered and revised, and he hoped that compulsory pilotage would be done away with altogether, and a provision introduced by which every man qualified to act as a pilot would be able to ask to be allowed to undergo the necessary examination, and having proved his competency, to acquire a licence to act as pilot.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he desired to receive an answer to his question from his noble Friend the Secretary to the Admiralty.
 MR. BENTINCK : At that time I had never heard of the proposed fort.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he regretted that the right hon. Baronet would be prevented from answering a question which he had to put concerning a fort which he was informed was about to be constructed in Plymouth Sound. The objections to the proposed fort were both military and naval, and therefore he wished to elicit
 1133 1134 fortiori
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, that he had been in communication with many of the inhabitants of Aldershot, who were as anxious to see some means adopted by which the immorality which occurred there and in other large garrison towns among the soldiers might be greatly diminished; and having given a good deal of consideration to the detailed proposal of Captain Jackson, he would only say that he feared there would be considerable difficulty in assuming that the suggestion he made would meet the evils it was proposed to remedy. The success of these social homes depended not only upon management, but on local and other circumstances, and he would caution the Government against expecting too much from incurring any large expenditure in such an experiment. He had been informed by many of the residents of Alder-shot, and by the intelligent superintendent of police there, that the idle and dissolute
 1132
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he was in Ireland in 1847 and 1848, and saw the way in which the grants made at that time were used, and he afterwards in the House urged that those grants should not be repeated, in consequence of the improper mode in which they were expended. He thought that the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Monsell) ought to receive favourable consideration. Another practicable remedy for the distress was lending money to landholders for improvements.
 MR. WHITE  said, he believed that Government was drifting in another China war. What it had done had provoked the hostility of a powerful party in China, and would not prevent the calamities of the rebellion. He did not participate in the gallant Member's feelings of affection for the Taepings; but they certainly cherished a most profound respect for British power, and, in the instance of a near relative of his, had allowed a British subject to leave their lines in perfect security. They respected British property, and allowed trade to be carried on with facility. He thought that the joint occupation by the English and French forces was detrimental to British interests. The object of England was trade, while that of France was the propagation of the Roman Catholic religion. He would suggest that they should declare Shanghai a free port, and leave the Imperialists and the rebels to collect dues on exports and imports passing into or from their lines respectively. The object was one of great importance, and must on an early day be more fully discussed.
 MR. BLAKE  said, he wished, before the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary replied, to put before the House a few statistics which, he thought, would go a good way to disprove the statement so often put forward by the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland regarding what he was pleased, erroneously, to call Irish prosperity, and with which he appeared to have indoctrinated the Chief Secretary. The latter was not, perhaps, so much to be blamed on first
 1152 Waterford Mail 1153 1154
 MR. BRADY  observed, that no doubt the hon. Member for Dungarvan in his statement intended to convey to the House an exact idea of the present state of Ireland, which he was well fitted to do from his intimate acquaintance with the distressed districts, and from the reliable sources of information he possessed. His object was to call attention to the fact that deaths had occurred, and that serious consequences had resulted from the poor not having been able to obtain sufficient nourishment; and it was no answer to say that the cases of death occurred from disease, and were chiefly among infants. He had heard with surprise the statement of the right hon. Baronet when he denounced one of the oldest of all our institutions, the coroner's inquest, and almost charged the jurors with perjury. If there were any inference to be drawn from the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman, it must be that coroners' inquests in Ireland ought to be totally abolished. Again, the arguments of the right hon. Gentleman, based on the relative numbers in the workhouses in 1852 and at the present time, were utterly futile, because at the former period the population of Ireland was between 6,000,000 and 7,000,000, while, according to the last Census returns, it was now a little over 5,000,000. He denied that an impression unfavourable to workhouses had been created by the denunciations of the Roman Catholic hierarchy; abhorrence of those institutions was one of the innate feelings of the Irish tenantry. It was absurd to suppose that outdoor relief was unnecessary in Ireland when in England, with its innumerable charities, six-sevenths of the funds raised in connection with the Poor Law were expended in that form. The right hon. Gentleman had introduced a religious element into this discussion, and had attacked the Catholic hierarchy. It was not their design to denounce the Irish Poor Law; but, at the same time, its operation had been shown to be wholly unsatisfactory and incapable of carrying out the great objects for which it was instituted. The attack which the right hon. Baronet had made on the Catholic hierarchy showed him to be totally unworthy of the position he held. He hoped the discussion would
 1176
 MR. SPEAKER  stated, that at present the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland was in possession of the House; and when he sat down, it would be competent for the hon. Member for Dungarvan to make an explanation.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he regarded the fact of the existence of great distress in Ireland as set at rest by that discussion, inasmuch as every hon. Member who had taken part in it but the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary had admitted it. What, then, had been done by the Government to relieve it. The right hon. Gentleman had given the House no satisfactory information on that point. When a similar state of things prevailed in 1858, the late Government exercised the special powers intrusted to them to save the lives of the people; and according to the Report of the
 1177 Vict 1178
 MR. LOCKE  said, he would move the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. MAGUIRE  in explanation said, he was willing to give to the right hon. Gentleman the name of the writer of the letter which, had been referred to.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he wished to explain.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he had referred to Cork, of which city he was chief magistrate, and he had stated that there existed great want and misery among the working population.
 MR. MAGUIRE : Name, name!
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he did not remember the exact words he had used, but he thought they were to the effect that the deceased died of scrofula superinduced by starvation.
 MR. MAGUIRE : Will the right hon. Gentleman rend the whole of the verdict?
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he would beg the right hon. Baronet to read the statements of the coroner and other persons as to the condition of the people in that district.
 MR. MAGUIRE : Will not the right hon. Baronet give some answer to the other cases I have brought forward, I challenge him to do so. [Order, order !]
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he would beg to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government, When Supply would come on again, as, at the request of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Poor Law Board, he had consented to postpone bringing forward the subject of the present distress in the manufacturing districts, of which he had given notice for that evening. Under the circumstances, he thought he had a right to appeal to the Government to afford him an early opportunity of calling the attention of the House to this question.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he had given notice of his intention, on going into Committee of Supply, to call attention
 1128
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he lamented to find, from the tone adopted by the representative of the Irish Government, that there was no disposition on their part to adopt measures for the alleviation of the distress prevalent in the sister country. The right hon. Baronet had referred to 9,000 people in Lancashire who were receiving poor relief, but it was outdoor relief; and if the same facilities were accorded to the poor of Ireland, the House would not have these constant discussions renewed. If the authorities in Ireland received power to administer outdoor relief, and if the quarter-acre clause, which prevented persons who held a small portion of land obtaining temporary relief in time of need, were repealed, a very beneficial alteration of the law would be effected, and much of the evil which resulted from the present system would be guarded against. If, on the other hand, the Government would not render any assistance, he hoped the Irish Members would adopt other means to present their case to the people of England. He would, however, implore the Secretary for Ireland to turn his attention to the reclamation of waste lands, and to the advance of a small sum for the drainage of the soil, for by these and other means employment might be furnished. He begged also to express his deep regret that the Secretary for Ireland had taken occasion in the course of his speech to attack the Roman Catholic Bishops of Ireland for the steps they had felt it incumbent upon them to pursue at this crisis. He could assure the right hon. Baronet that he would not succeed in changing the opinions of the Irish prelates by means such as those resorted to by the Italian Minister with the episcopacy of Italy.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he fully concurred in the observations of his hon. Friend opposite. Nothing could be more oppressive than that a ship should be compelled to take a pilot of a certain class, and that the owner of the vessel should be liable for any accident that such a pilot might cause. He trusted the Go-
 1189
 MR. LOWE  said, he wished to ask the hon. Member for Tiverton, Whether it is his intention to move for the re-appointment of the Select Committee appointed during the last Session to inquire into the claims of the Baron de Bode?
 MR. SLANEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If he will introduce a clause in the Highways Bill to enforce the repairs of footpaths being highways across fields and elsewhere near great towns?
 MR. COLLINS  said, he hoped that sufficient notice would be given of the names of the Members who were to form the Committee on the Bill.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he would agree to the adjournment.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, if the hon. Gentleman would allow the Speaker to leave the Chair, he (Mr. Gibson) would immediately move that the Chairman report progress.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that if
 1188 pro formâ
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  moved that the House go into Committee on this Bill.
 MR. W. EWART  said, he rose to call attention to Captain Jackson's Reports on the importance of establishing Soldiers' Institutes at Aldershot and Portsmouth, and to inquire whether an early opportunity will be taken of carrying his recommendations into effect? Those recommendations were so much calculated to raise the moral and intellectual character of the soldier, and had been found of so much benefit at Gibraltar, that he would express an earnest hope that the War Office would see reason before long to adopt them.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Whether he can inform the House if it is true that the Italian Government have sent a Special Envoy to tins country to negotiate a new Commercial Treaty?
 MR. GREGORY  said, he had heard it observed that the difference between an
 1173 1174 1175
 MR. MONSELL  said, he knew that very severe distress existed amongst the small cottiers. They did not want the Government to make any grants of money to these districts, but they considered under the present exceptional circumstances the Government should be more liberal with respect to loans for constructing railways, improving harbours, and effecting drainage, by which loans the public Exchequer would not lose one shilling. Although it was perfectly true that great evils followed the money grants given to Ireland in 1848, yet of the loans made at that time to railways every shilling had been repaid to the Exchequer with interest. He earnestly trusted that the Government would take the matter into serious consideration, for: the real time of severe trial in the distressed districts would arrive when the spring agricultural work should be over. The suffering was something far beyond what was described in the able letters in  The Times 1183
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether, as the military defence of the Tartar city of Shanghai has been ordered by Her Majesty's Government, and joint expeditions of French, English, and Tartars appear to have recently taken place against the Taepings, provision has been made to prevent the Tartar Civil Governor (Toutai) of Shanghai from executing prisoners taken in conflict with the Taepings. The hon. Member read extracts from journals and letters from China, and urged the necessity of interference to prevent the cruelties practised on Taeping prisoners by the Imperial forces, as described in these communications.
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If the result of the late Census of Ireland, extending, as in the years 1841 and 1851, to the population of each townland, will be published during the present Session?
 SIR. GEORGE BOWYER  observed, that the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland had quoted a despatch from the Piedmontese Minister in which the clergy of Italy were confined to duties strictly spiritual. From  The Times
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he thought the hon. Member for King's County (Mr. Hennessy) would be satisfied there was not complete unanimity among the Irish Members upon this subject. There was no doubt that in particular parts of the country considerable distress did exist, but not only in Ireland; for in the west of Scotland, among a similar class of population, distress prevailed owing to the wet season of last year, which had injured their crops. There was also much distress from other causes in Lancashire and other parts of England. But the only question for the Government and Parliament was, whether the distress was so severe and urgent as to demand the interference of Government or of Parliament, or whether
 1181 1182
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the Bill had been considerably modified, and several of the objectionable clauses in that introduced last year removed. He did not, therefore, object to the second reading, on the understanding, however, that the provisions of the Bill should be fully considered in Select Committee.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he was not quite sure that such a clause would come directly within the purpose of the Highways Bill; but he would recommend his hon. Friend to give notice of a clause to the effect stated, and the matter would be considered.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  stated, that the Criminal Prosecutions Expenses Bill, which stood on the paper first for Monday, would not be proceeded with on that day, or till the inquiry now pending before a Committee was concluded.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, that in the Report of the Commissioners on the state of the army, in which military institutes and barracks were recommended, the opinion was given that the success of such
 1131
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he wished to put a Question to the noble Lord at the head of the Government, of which he had given private notice, with regard to his intentions touching the further progress of the Education Debate, Whether, considering the fact that the changes in the Revised Code were only placed on the table on the night the House adjourned, and there had been no fair opportunity of duly considering them, and considering the wish on both sides of the House that this long-pending question should be brought to a settlement satisfactory to the country, the noble Lord has any objection to meet that wish by postponing the further consideration of the Education Code to a later day than Monday next.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, the Papers would be presented as soon as possible.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  stated, that the Returns referred to had taken a great deal of time in preparation; but he had received
 1127
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he was afraid it would not be possible to publish the Returns this Session. When the Census of 1851 was taken, the Irish Returns were not made till the following year, but he hoped those of 1861 would be published before the end of the present year.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he quite concurred with the hon. Member for Dungarvan in the opinion that the question which he had raised was one in dealing with which all party feeling and personal prejudice ought to be laid aside, inasmuch as it was one which appealed strongly to every feeling of humanity and of charity. The question was one, indeed, which was calculated to interest every man whose attention had been directed—and whose had not?— to the wants and privations of those portions of the community who, during a season of, he readily admitted, an exceptional character, had chanced to he more exposed than others to its inclement influences and effects. To the able, calm, and moderate statement made by the hon. Gentleman who had brought the subject forward he had listened attentively, and he must say that when he had sat down he had felt considerably relieved, because he had been given to understand that the hon. Member would be in a position to submit to the House from sources of information from which they were debarred what was termed a very strong case against the Government; but he rejoiced to find that the hon. Gentleman had failed to make out any such case. He would admit, however, that if one tenth part of the insinuations that had been thrown out and accusations made against the Government by some had been justified by facts, serious censure and blame would rightly attach to that portion of the Government of which he was the organ in the House of Commons. He, of course, gave the hon. Member for Dungarvan credit for being animated by the best motives in adopting the course which he had that evening taken; but notwithstanding the
 1155 1156 1157 "I reside about 150 yards from where Taylor and his wife lived in Lugdoon, and I have known the family well for the last three years. They hold conacre from me, and they have a free house in Lugdoon. Taylor had been in a bad state of health, to my knowledge, for the past nine months. I should say he was a man of seventy years of age. They had a good crop of potatoes, which was not consumed a short time previous to his death, as I saw them digging potatoes in their conacre field. In consequence of Taylor's illness I forgave them a great portion of the rent they owed to me. A few days after Taylor took to his bed I thought that some sort of delicacies might be of use to him, and Mrs. Fenton and I sent him plenty of bread and tea morning and evening. The wife died about a week before Taylor, and they were getting some subscription for a coffin. A demand was made upon me to subscribe. I refused it, on the ground that the daughter was able to give 2 s d s 1158
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that the hon. Gentleman had referred to a case in his own place—Dungarvan, he presumed.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he thought it would occupy too much time to read them, but he would do so if the House wished it. He would next refer to a case which merited the notice of Parliament as an instance of gross misrepresentation to excite sympathy.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : The hon. Gentleman referred to this case as one of death from starvation. The jury did say certainly "hastened by want." There were, however, thousands of deaths in this country which were hastened by want; but they were not of a nature to be brought under the special notice of Parliament.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : I have here the finding of the jury. The verdict is distinct that she died of disease of the lungs and scrofula. The hon. Gentleman says he can produce forty cases of death from starvation. I maintain he cannot find one-tenth of the number.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he spoke from his own authority. [Mr. MAGUIRE: No, no !  and cries of
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he wished to
 1159 Globe "Sir,—The population of my parish, Kilmore, county of Mayo, declared, is 6,534: of these 272 have food for four months; 767 have food for three months; 2,613 have food for two months; 1,514 have food for one month; 1,134 have no food; total population, 6,534. Those who have no food are begging, borrowing, and pawning not only their day clothes, but also their scanty night clothing (when a pawn-office will receive them), to procure Indian meal to keep them from starvation. They have a just horror of going into or rearing their children in a workhouse, into which they will not be admitted until they give up possession of all they hold dear, the shelter of the roof under which they were born and reared. I confidently appeal to the generosity and charity of the British public to assist me in saving from starvation as moral, as sober, and as industrious a people as any on the face of the earth." "The parish of Kilmore includes three electoral divisions of the Swineford Union—namely, Kilmore, Urlaur, and Kilkelly.… A large portion of the three electoral divisions above named is the property of Lord Dillon. His agent, Mr. Strickland, allowed a large quantity of timber to be cut down for firing.…It is very difficult to arrive at a satisfactory conclusion as to the condition of the people, judging merely from the appearance and condition of their houses. Persons having money laid by or other sufficient means of support reside in the most miserable cabins. Cases were mentioned to me illustrative of this fact, one in particular. A man named Dillon was found during the past month lying dead in a field; the appearance of the body, as well as the miserable hovel occupied by him, led to the belief that his death was caused by starvation. An inquest was held on the body, and it appeared in evidence that he was at the time of his death possessed of over £200.…The police-sergeant told me that he finds bags of meal in some of the wretched hovels. He does not deny the existence of individual cases of distress, but he considers the idea of 1,134 persons being without food as a very extravagant exaggeration." "I am unable to arrive at the conclusion that any extraordinary measures of relief are at present required in this district." 1160 "There have been 31 cases of inquiry into alleged cases of death through want, from the first of November to the present date, the first of May, embracing six months. The number of inquests included in the above cases was 25. In several of the cases of inquest the verdict did not allege death through want or destitution, but was erroneously stated as doing so in some newspaper, and this led to inquiry being made. In most of the other cases of inquest the verdict does not directly allege death from destitution or starvation, but alleges death through sickness, attended or preceded by exposure or other kind of privation. In many of these cases the verdict was borne out by the subsequent official inquiry, but in some cases it was not. In those cases in which the verdict was borne out by the facts, the case was generally that of a mendicant or person not having any fixed place of abode, often of very advanced age, and overtaken by sickness in wandering about from place to place, never making application for Poor Law relief, and in most cases refusing it when tendered. Even in this class of cases the death has not been traced in any instance to sickness caused by absolute want of food, but to sickness attended by want of suitable food, nursing, and other comforts, which could only be supplied in the workhouse. In many of the cases food of the ordinary description (as bread, meat, &c.) or the means of procuring it—namely, small sums of money—was found upon the person. A very few among the thirty-one cases are cases of death through sickness which occurred in the families of the peasantry and were attended likewise by want of suitable food and nourishment and the absence of any application for relief in the workhouse, the only available mode of preventing or retarding death in those cases. Occasionally the evidence obtained by the Inspector shows the existence of great pecuniary distress among the small farmers in some districts; but the same evidence negatives the existence of any state of things approaching to famine, or any description of famine disease, such as the prevalence of fever, dysentery, or the like. The cases inquired into are, in fact, such as occur, more or less, in ordinary seasons; and it is worth remark that they are scattered over the whole surface of the country; showing clearly no connection with aggravated distress in any one particular district." 1161 "The jury found a verdict contrary to the charge of the coroner, contrary to evidence, and contrary to common sense, from personal feelings; and" (added the magistrate) "I refused to act on the verdict, and so did the coroner as to issuing a warrant. The extent to which 'charitable feelings,' falsely so called, will lead the class from which such juries are usually formed is hardly to be imagined. Some time ago I examined eight jurymen on oath, and it was distinctly proved that they had sworn falsely; and then they stated in open court that they conceived 'the charitable object' which they had in view when they concocted their story would atone for perjury."
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, nothing was more interesting on this subject than the official returns during the past few week. It was highly gratifying to the Government to know that on the 5th April last there was a decrease of 203 in the number of recipients of relief through the whole of Ireland; on the 12th, a decrease of 673; and on the 19th, a decrease of 638. He also had in his hand a statement of the number of persons in the workhouses in Ireland at the close of each week from February to May in each year from 1852 to 1862, and it showed that the condition of the people at present was not one calculated to excite alarm or serious anxiety on the part of the Government. In l852 there were, at the beginning of May, 186,000 persons in the workhouses in Ireland; in 1853, 143,500 persons; in 1854, 102,400 persons; in 1855, 83,800 persons: in 1856, 65,800 persons; in 1857, 52,900 persons; in 1858, 47,800 persons; in 1859, 41,300 persons; in 1860, 43,000 persons; and in 1861, 47,500 persons. He believed that at the present moment the number in the workhouses was 59,000 persons. From these returns it was evident that though there
 1162 "The distress prevalent in the country had led the Board to the anticipation of a large increase of crime in the city, but happily their apprehension has not been realized." 1163 "As the fathers of the poor, the widow, and the orphan, we complain, and we hare cause to complain, of the administration and working of the Poor Law in Ireland. Need we say that the physical condition of the poor in our workhouses is wretched in the extreme, and that it contrasts most unfavourably with their condition in times gone by, when, under the dispensation of Catholic charity, they were cared for with the utmost tenderness." 1164 "I need not inform your Grace that the amount of relief given in the workhouse is no test of distress. The people are determined to die sooner than enter these charnel-houses. For my part, until the whole Poor Law system is totally changed, I will never advise them to enter institutions where the lives of the old and the morals of the young are not safe." 1165 "They must take into account the difficulties of the times, and, watching over the conduct of the clergy, they must be careful to check every excess on their part which might prove injurious to public order and the laws of the country, so that while guaranteeing to the clergy the most complete liberty in all spiritual matters, they must not permit them to abuse such freedom to the prejudice of the liberty of others, and to the detriment of the national institutions." 1166 1167
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, If he will give the opportunity of considering the Report of the Defence Commission, and the evidence on which it is founded, by allowing the interval of a week to elapse between its being in the hands of Members and its discussion?
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he wished to move the second reading of the Burials Bill. It had been made to harmonize with the Irish Act.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he would move the second reading of this Bill. He was willing that it should be referred for consideration to the Committee on Poor Relief sitting up stairs.
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  said, he concurred in the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet, that the Bill should be referred to a Select Committee.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, in answer to the right hon. Baronet, I have to state that the last modifications in the Educational Code were announced on Friday, the 28th of March; they were laid on the table on the 11th of April, and were in the hands of Members on the 12th; while on the 1st of April it was settled that the discussion was to be resumed on the 5th of May. We are now at the beginning of May; considerable time has elapsed since the whole of the modifications in the scheme in a printed form were placed in the hands of hon. Members. Considering, therefore, the state of business, and various other things which are
 1129
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he was not sure what arrangements his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had made with regard to the time for proceeding with his financial measures; but he would undertake that either on Thursday or Friday next the hon. and gallant Member should have the precedence.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  replied, that the Sergeant Instructors of Volunteers were of two classes. There were those who had pensions, and they received the same pay as the permanent staff of the Militia, which amounted, with certain allowances, to 2 s d 1204 s d
 MR. HENLEY  said, he so entirely agreed with what had fallen from his right hon. Friend (Mr. Walpole) that he should have been quite content to let the matter pass without remark had not some points been adverted to in the course of discussion upon which his views seemed to him to be of some importance. Upon the general subject he thought there was such a discrepancy between the Commissioners and the Inspectors that it was impossible to reconcile their statements, and after the issue of the Report in the last Session he took an opportunity of asking the right hon. Gentleman the Vice President of the Board of Education whether he would not feel bound to tell the House in the present Session which the Government believed to be right. When it was considered that the amount of the educational Votes for England and Ireland in round numbers was £1,100,000, or as much as  1d 1218 1219 1220 4s 1221 "The children," said the Report, "do attend long enough to afford an opportunity of teaching them to read, write, and cipher. They neither read well nor write well. They work sums, but they learn their arithmetic in such a way as to be of little practical use in common life. Their religious instruction is unintelligent, and to a great extent confined to exercises of merely verbal memory. The evidence in support of these assertions will be adduced in a future chapter. They are made here as a justification of our opinion that the trained teachers often neglect an important part of their duty." 1222 1223 1224 1225
 MR. HENLEY  said, that after the indulgence which had been extended to him already that evening he should not again have trespassed in the debate, but that he had since received a petition from the school Inspectors of the diocese in which the hon. Member for Berkshire and himself lived, and he thought that the Committee ought to be placed in possession of their views. One point dwelt upon by the school Inspectors in that petition was, that whilst it was desirable that the capitation fees should be given to those schools which were under certificated masters, the grants on examination should be extended to all schools were the results were satisfactory. In supporting the Motion before the Committee he desired to state that in so doing he had no wish to do anything in the least disrespectful to the certificated masters. He agreed with his hon. Friend
 1267
 MR. HARDY  said, that they were all desirous, he believed, that the children of those parents who supported themselves by manual labour should be those who received the greatest share of benefit from these schools. He could not, however, regard them as objectionable if persons of a higher class were desirous of availing themselves of them. If, for example, in such schools as those to which the hon. Member for Bolton alluded, which persons of a higher class frequented, they were to charge those children 6 d d 1275
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, he quite agreed in the principle that unless a strong case was made out no exceptional legislation ought to take place. But a line could be
 1276 "That inasmuch as the great majority of children in Wales are, on their admission to Schools, either altogether ignorant of, or imperfectly acquainted with the English language, through the medium of which they are instructed, and in which their examination is conducted, such examination shall not, in any School in the Principality, be commenced until the children have attained the age of seven years; that group 1 shall include children between seven and eight years of age; group 2 those between eight and ten; group 3 those between ten and twelve; and group 4 those above twelve years of age."
 COLONEL PENNANT  said, he thought that the Resolution was founded upon, truth and justice, and that the right hon. Gentleman was not justified in treating the proposition in the cavalier manner that he had done. The Welsh language was, in his opinion the curse of Wales, and he should be glad to see it replaced by the English; still they must deal with the state of things that existed, and which he believed justified the Committee in adopting the Resolution which had been submitted to it by the hon. Member.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he thought his hon. Friend Was singular in his opinion that the act would be attended with inconvenience. The object of the Bill was to place the supreme courts in the colonies to which it would apply on the same footing as the superior courts at home. Nothing could be more inconvenient than to sent out writs of  Habeas Corpus
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, it would be useless to attempt any opposition to the Government scheme after the course taken by the right hon. Gentleman; but he thought that the case of the teachers—a most deserving body of men, who were called into existence and encouraged by the Government—was a stronger one than had yet been represented The Government had induced these persons by definite and specific engagements to adopt their present profession, and he contended that from these engagements the Government had no right to recede. To every apprentice a document called an augmentation broadsheet was delivered, which on one side referred to duties and privileges while training, and on the other to emoluments which they would receive as teachers. This document began thus—"Their Lordships will grant in aid of the salary of every" certificated teacher certain annual sums, and this was repeated in every broad-sheet up to 1859, but in that year the word "will" was quietly changed to "may." This appeared extremely significant. If this transaction had been between private persons, an action might, he believed, have been founded upon such a breach of faith as was now contemplated, and legal opinions to this effect had been given. The House had voted compensation to proc-
 1226 "They belong exclusively to the teachers, not to the general funds of the school. Their Lordships cannot sanction corresponding reductions in the previous salaries of the teachers, even though more than sufficient to fulfil the conditions of the particular grant." "No person who is, or has been, a Queen's scholar, or for whose annual examinations grants have been made to the college, is morally free to quit the profession of a teacher." "Queen's scholars are trained at the public expense for a profession understood to be that of their lives, and not for a temporary or provisional one." 1227
 VISCOUNT ENFIELD  was understood to say it was unnecessary for him to move the Amendments he had placed on the paper, as the Vice President of the Committee of Education had practically adopted them. Knowing the difficulties the right hon. Gentleman had had to contend with, from friends on one side and foes on the other, he thought the compromise he had made was a fair and just one. For himself he accepted it, believing it would on the whole, work advantageously. With regard to the proposal for examinations of the pupils, however, attending evening schools, he was not sanguine as to the results. Knowing the class of scholars who attended the evening schools, he believed it would be difficult to induce them to attend the examinations. With regard to the pupil-teachers, he should have been glad if the notice had been extended from six to twelve months. But he did not think these points would essentially affect the plan, which was likely to produce satisfactory results, as the managers of schools would have an incentive to insure a good examination. He therefore would conclude by thanking the right hon. Gentleman for having proposed his present plan.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that the effect of the Resolution of the hon. Gentleman would, if carried, be to impede the business of the schools, to throw an unnecessary  onus
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, that al-
 1234 1235 1236 "While hewing yews Hugh lost his ewe, and put it in the  Hue and Cry "To name its face's dusky hues" "Was all the effort he could use. "You brought the ewe back by-and-by, "And only begged the hewer's ewer "Your hands to wash in water pure, "Lest nice-nosed ladies, not a few, "Should cry, on coming near you, 'Ugh !' " 1237
 MR. AYRTON  said, he would more as an Amendment, that the Bill should be recommitted, in order that he might propose the addition of a clause providing that where any court or Judge refused to issue a writ of  Habeas Corpus
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he feared some of the divisions that evening had been a great discouragement to the training colleges; but he was afraid the Code in the present shape would have the effect of starving them. He had given notice of a Resolution which he would now beg to propose.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he would withdraw his Motion, and would take some other opportunity of having the point discussed.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he would bog to express his gratification at the course which his right hon. Friend (Mr. Walpole) proposed to take. At the same time, he should have preferred his right hon. Friend's Resolution to the proposal of the Government, because he understood his
 1238 1239
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, the proposition of the hon. Gentleman would end in abolishing the training colleges. Now, it seemed to him that those institutions had rendered great services to the country, and
 1266
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he could not quite understand the explanation of the hon. Gentleman. Why had he made the quotations?
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he wished to express his sincere gratification at finding that the Government had relieved the country from the grave apprehension which had prevailed lest the new Code might separate religious from secular instruction. He was one of the first to raise the alarm; and he would have been exceedingly sorry to have brought any imputation of the sort
 1228 15s maximum 10s
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, the provision proposed to be inserted by the hon. and learned Gentleman was entirely novel in its character; and as it seemed to him altogether unnecessary, he felt bound, on the part of the Government, to oppose it.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would beg to ask the secretary of State for War, Whether he is aware that the Drill Instructors appointed to Volunteer Corps by the War Office are not contented with the pay they receive from the War Office, but require pay in addition from the Volunteers; and whether such proceeding be in accordance with the intention of the War Office; and, if not, whether the Government will prevent its occurrence, either by prohibiting the Drill Instructors from making any demand on the Volunteers, or in any other way?
 MR. PULLER  said, that great and valuable as the concessions of the Government had been, there were still points in the new Code with respect to which he was anxious to obtain some information from the right hon. Gentleman the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education. He wished to know whether, under the last modification of the system laid before the House, it was to be  bonà fide 1214 4s 1215 4s 8s 5s. 7d 4s 8s 11s. 6d 1216 1217
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he would support the Motion of the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Ayrton). As he read the Act, it would apply not only to the colonies, but it would deprive all the Queen's subjects of the advantage of a prerogative writ. He objected to the Bill  in toto
 MR. THOMPSON  seconded the Resolution moved by the hon. Member for Berkshire, but proposed a somewhat different mode of carrying it out. The weakest point in the Revised Code was the absence of any provision for the poor schools, which were now excluded from the grant, in consequence of being unable to comply with the requirements of the Privy Council by engaging trained masters at high salaries. No settlement of this question could be either satisfactory or permanent which did not throw open the public grant to all schools which were really in need, and which could produce satisfactory results. He therefore suggested that the capitation grant of 8 s s s s 1259 s s s s s s s s s maximum 1260 s 1261 "What was the position of the Jews in North Africa? How did this influence the Christian dogma? Which of the early heresies may be attributed to the Grecian philosophy as distinguished from the Egyptian? What was the probable source of ascetic doctrines? Give an account of the Essenes and character of the sects which sprang out of the ascetic idea." s s
 MR. PEASE  said, that he thought the Committee would feel that it was indebted to the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Lowe) for the labour and pains he had bestowed on this subject, but for -which the House would not now be in a condition to deal with it. He did not wish to charge the Government with having committed an absolute breach of faith, but it was not surprising that teachers had relied on the continuity of their position. There could be no doubt, that in dealing with education what the managers of schools had most to consider was, how far the staff which they employed was an educated staff; and the staff which had the  morale
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he wished to point out that in all the colonies proper there was no appeal in criminal matters to the Privy Council. The effect of the clause would be to give such an appeal, and the result would be that the due course of justice in the colonies would be seriously impeded.
 MR. WALTER  said, that in contending that the certificated masters were not indispensable to the efficiency of schools, he was bound to refer to the highest, and, indeed, the only authority on the subject— namely, the Report of the Commissioners.
 MR. WALTER : Sir, in rising for the purpose of breaking fresh ground in this hitherto well-trodden field of debate, and in moving the Resolution which stands in my name, I am sure I may be allowed to congratulate the Committee, in the first place, on the peaceful and happy solution of the controversy raised by my right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge, which, had it proceeded, would at least have involved us in a protracted discussion, and perhaps imperilled the cause in which we are all so deeply interested—that of education itself. Into none of those questions which formed the subject of my right hon. Friend's Resolutions is it my business to enter. I think it is a mere matter of detail in what manner the two great principles of the Revised Code, to which my right hon. Friend has just alluded, shall be now carried out. Whether the examination of children shall be conducted according to age, or any other mode of classification; in what proportions the grant shall be distributed with reference to the different subjects of examination; and what securities shall be taken to provide for the efficient discipline and religious teaching of the schools, are, in my opinion, matters of detail which can only be tested by experience, and can be modified as they may be found hereafter to work well or ill. Neither is it my intention to enter into that wider question touched on by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich (Sir J. Pakington), as to whether the voluntary or compulsory system of education is, in the abstract, most desirable to be adopted. For my own part, I have never seen reason to change the opinion which I formed long ago on this question, that, considering the genius of the people for whom we are called on to legislate, and considering that the ground of education has already been occupied chiefly by the voluntary party, it would be almost impossible, if not most dangerous, to attempt any other than a compromise between the two systems. Such a compromise has hitherto
 1244 "Sir,—Having learnt that you have given notice of a Motion to the effect that schools with masters who are not certificated may, if otherwise complying with the conditions of the grant in other respects, have aid, as other schools, will you permit me to say how important such an alteration would be in extending the benefits of the grant to the portion of the population which most requires it, instead of chiefly extending it, as at present, to those who are in a position to help themselves? This would he in strict accordance with the professed principle of the Code, to help according to results and to voluntary effort. You are aware that efforts have been made by many to obtain help for ragged and other poor schools, and I have laid before several Members suggestions whereby facilities for obtaining certificates may be extended. Your Resolution would be far better, and is based on an important principle. "Wishing you every success, I remain, Sir, yours sincerely, "MARY CARPENTER." 1245 "The general nature of the administration of the Privy Council grants may be most easily understood by viewing the Committee of Council for Education in the light of a society, like the National or British and Foreign School Society, assisting local efforts to promote education without reference to the religious denominations by which they may be made, but supported by general taxation instead of voluntary contributions. The sphere of the operations of the Committee has been greatly enlarged since its first establishment, and the objects which it contemplates have been multiplied in number, but the principles of its administration have remained unchanged." 1246 1247 1248 "If we were logical and consistent, which I admit we are not, we should lay down no rules as to the sort of teachers that should be employed in schools. We should leave it to the managers to select such machinery as they thought proper; and if the children passed the examination, that would be enough for us. That remark does not, in my view, extend to certificated teachers, because we have the same right to require that there should be a certificated teacher, and to limit our patronage to him, as the public has to require that a man shall be regularly educated before he is allowed to practise as a lawyer or a physician. But as to the subordinate machinery, for which the managers engage to pay, we may, I think, be accused of inconsistency if we require it to be of any particular kind." "The position of the teachers in the class list, though it regulates to some extent their salaries, is a doubtful indication of their comparative professional value. This is ascertained by the
 1249 "They often conduct lessons in reading, arithmetic, and writing from copies and dictation better than many adult teachers of ordinary ability;" while "many of them can teach and examine a large class in grammar, geography, and English history, and the subject-matter of books of general information, with less waste of time and greater facility of illustration than the generality of untrained masters." "Their faults," he observes, "are that they are often too pedantic and too mechanical, and too much lost in the routine of school work," and "that they are apt to fall into the faults of meagreness, dryness, and emptiness, or the opposite and not less mischievous evils of presumption and ostentation." 1250 "Educationally viewed, it is a low and unsatisfactory expedient. Intellectually, the general education must suffer. Children only thirteen years of age are called from their proper work, learning, and apprenticed to teach. The time which should be spent in their own intellectual culture and equipment is spent on others, and thus their own range of improvement must be narrowed. The taught also suffer. Pupil-teachers, at least during the first two or three years of their apprenticeship, can deal only with the mechanical in education, with form and routine, such as spelling, grammar, geography, and the simple rules of arithmetic. In this, and in preserving order, they have their value. They often attain great expertness in the outer forms of questioning; but it is the expertness of jugglery, the tossing backwards and forwards of the same truths, the shaking into many kaleidoscopic combinations of the same well-known facts. But as for awakening thought, stimulating and directing inquiry, and evolving exercised energies of intellect, it is never dreamed of nor attempted. Morally, the pupil-teacher can have little power. Seriousness and dignity of look would be regarded at his age as unnatural, or as hypocrisy. What amiability of disposition and what high purposes can he foster? Reflexly, the system does mischief, in fostering in the young boy-teacher petulance, pride, impatience of restraint, and other qualities ill fitting him for his office. Many are marked by great excellence of character, and love their work, but the tendencies are often too painfully manifest. For hours daily the finest mechanism we know on earth—the human spirit, with all its intellectual and moral energies and capabilities—is left to be handled or tossed about by inexperienced teachers. The moral influence is, to say the least, merely negative when it should be positive." "The pupil-teacher cannot throw around the classes with which he is daily so long in contact that well-known but undefinable power expressed by 'life,' 'tone,' 'atmosphere,' which often so im-
 1251 "Sir,—Having read with great satisfaction of the alterations that have been made in respect to grants to public schools, I shall feel greatly obliged if you will let me know where I can obtain the minutes of the alterations, as I think, from what I have seen of the observations upon them, a more just and equitable method could not have been devised, nor anything more disgraceful than the former minutes, which gave the public money to those schoolmasters and mistresses who were in possession of good salaries and pupil-teachers to do their work, and withheld both from those with small salaries;  e. g i. e 1252 1253 "It is notorious that the great mass of the poorest schools cannot afford to engage a certificated teacher. The consequence of this is, that in very extensive districts the clergy have the whole burden of supporting the schools cast upon them, while in richer places the Government is paying a large part of the expenses. There seems to be no real difficulty in the way of a general scheme of making grants to all schools, in proportion to their numbers, upon condition only that the instruction is of a fairly good and effective character. I ask why, if I keep up an effective school in my village, I am not as much entitled to help as some neighbour whose school is worse conducted, but who has the fortune to possess a certificated master? I know that a large portion of your readers are working unassisted schools at great pecuniary loss, but with very good educational success." "Sir,—I understand that it is your intention to bring forward a Motion with reference to schools; that, provided the scholars pass a good examination, it shall not be necessary to have a certificated master in order to obtain a grant from the Privy Council. I enclose reports just received respecting my schools. You will see that the results are attained, but I can obtain no grant, because neither my master nor mistresses are certificated." "Aylsham School, mixed—Religious knowledge is very good in both schools. [This I think would satisfy my right hon. Friend the Member for Oxfordshire.] Discipline is good, especially in the boys' school. Writing is good, especially in the boys' school. Reading is good in the girls' school, and fair in the boys' school. Arithmetic is weaker than the ether work in both schools. Infants—
 1254 The Times "The certification of schoolmasters and schoolmistresses, and the annexation of a stipend to the certificate, has a powerful effect in raising their  status 1255 1256 Aide-toi et Ciel t'aidera; 1257 "That to require the employment of Certificated Masters and Pupil Teachers by Managers of Schools, as an indispensable condition of their participation in the Parliamentary Grant, is inexpedient and inconsistent with the principle of
 1258
 MR. WALTER  said, he wished to say a few words in explanation. He denied that he had made an attack upon the certificated masters. He had merely quoted from the Report of the Commissioners to show that all the Inspectors who had expressed an opinion on the subject had come to the conclusion—and he challenged the hon. Baronet to contradict it—that the efficiency of the certificated teachers was in an inverse ratio to their class or degree; so that, as a general rule, the higher the certificate the worse the master. That statement was not his; it was made by the Commissioners, and was founded upon the reports of the Inspectors.
 MR. WALTER  said, he wished to express his readiness to amend his Resolution, in order to meet the objection raised to its form by his right hon. Friend, by the substitution of the word "or" for "and" immediately preceding the words "pupil-teachers." He must add that he was unable to reconcile the arguments just used by the right hon. Gentleman with the statement which he had made a short time before in reply to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge, and wished to know what principle he had retained in his Revised Code if it were not payment for results as ascertained by examination.
 MR. WALTER  intimated his willingness to comply with the suggestion.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he was disposed to regret the alterations that had been
 1229 s
 MR. LOWE : Sir, I have very often, at very unconscionable length, addressed the House on this subject: but on those occasions I had this excuse—that I was struggling for practical results. Now, I am happy to perceive that the Committee are disposed to give their approbation to the propositions of the Government, and, under these circumstances, I think it would be inexcusable in me to re-open the controversy which took place in reference to the Revised Code. I do not think it would be for the convenience of the Committee that I should follow the noble Lord the Member for Stamford (Lord R. Cecil) into the vexed question of the degree of efficiency under the former system, or into the reports of the Inspectors. For what purpose should I do so? In these discussions I have been unfortunately obliged to say a great deal of the evil results of the system administered by my own department. I have done so because there was a great evil to be remedied; but in the position which the question now occupies I think I should be inexcusable if I went back to those annoying topics and reiterated those charges, which I made most unwillingly, but which have resulted in bringing about what I believe to be very important amendments. The noble Lord asks me what advantages we expect from the system which we have put before the House; and he says it is very different from the
 1240 de non apparentibus et non existentibus eadem est ratio; 1241 1242 1243
 MR. LOWE  said, the Amendment proposed by his hon. Friend would not quite meet the objection to the form of the Resolution as it stood. He should suggest that the words "and pupil-teachers" be omitted, inasmuch as the employment of pupil-teachers was not an indispensable condition of participation in the grant.
 MR. LOWE  said, that the fourth clause of the Code declared that "the object of the grant is to promote the education of children belonging to the classes who support themselves by manual labour." That was the principle on which the grant was founded. He would recommend his hon. Friend not to press his Motion, because, if it were carried, it would only affirm that which was already the principle of the Department; and if the hon. Member lost his Resolution, it would very much shake the principle in question.
 MR. LOWE : Sir, this is a matter of great importance, and though the notice has been some time on the books of the House, I have no doubt that it has taken many Members somewhat by surprise. I will therefore beg their calm attention while I endeavour to point out to the
 1268 1269 1270
 MR. LOWE  said, he hoped his right hon. Friend would not press his Resolution. He did not see how it would be possible to give a premium to schoolmasters without undoing all they had already done; and if they gave them anything in the shape of a monopoly, it would probably be resented by the managers.
 MR. LOWE  said, it was not in his power to consent to the Amendment. He was happy to say that among a large number of the Welsh people there was a desire that their children should learn English. It would appear that Welsh children were much quicker than English, and he had no doubt that by their superior ability they would make up for the disadvantage under which they laboured in English not being their own language. There was a capitation grant for children between the ages of three and six, and the best thing they could do was to go to school and learn English.
 MR. LOWE  said, he could not agree to the Resolution. The young persons who attended evening schools very often received exceedingly scanty wages.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he could not but express great doubts as to the wisdom both of the Bill and of the Amendment. It was a very grave question whether they ought not to continue the supreme protection which the Queen now had the power
 1279
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, I have to discharge a duty which to my mind is in some respects a very agreeable one, and in other respects a painful one. I have to discharge what is an agreeable duty, because I hope the Committee will now see its way to the termination of that controversy on education which I could have wished had never arisen. I have to discharge a duty in some respects painful, because, whatever may be the arrangements made with reference to this question, I believe it cannot be otherwise than that some persons, for whom I entertain a sincere respect, will still feel disappointment. I think it is right that we should revert for a moment to the time when the Government made an announcement before the Easter recess as to the mode in which they proposed to meet the objections which had been raised in this House and the country against the Revised Code. The Vice President of the Committee of Council, in a most frank and I need not say able manner, announced to us on the part of the Government the modifications in the Code which they were prepared to submit to Parliament. Those modifications were most important in their character—very extensive in their bearing on the question, and I must add, largely conciliatory in the tone and temper in which they were announced to the House. Well, Sir, when a great controversy has arisen on a question of this kind or of any kind in this House, and when the Government comes forward with a frank and hearty desire to meet the objections that were, I hope, temperately raised, it would I think ill become any opponent of the measure, or of the Government, to decline to meet that Government in the same temper and in the same spirit with which they
 1205 1206 1207 "That where it is proposed to give Government aid to elementary schools, it is inexpedient that the whole amount of such aid should depend on the individual examination of each child in reading, writing, and arithmetic." s s "That the system of grouping by age for the purpose of examination would be unequal in its operation, and an inadequate test of the work done in the school, and specially disadvantageous for those children whose early education has been neglected." 1208 "That the refusal of any portion of the Parliamentary grants, on account of any children who have once passed in the highest class of examination, is likely to have an injurious effect, as tending to aggravate the acknowledged evil of the withdrawal of children from elementary schools at an early age." 1209 1210 4s 8s 4s 5s 10s 6s 9s 1211 1212 1213
 MR. BARNES  said, he should support the Resolution on the ground that the grant went now in a considerable degree to the education of a class of children for whom it was never designed. The House would not have consented to the first grant of £20,000 had it not been distinctly stated that it was for the education of the poor. On that account it appeared to him that the House had shut its eyes to the facts, for it was under the delusion that by granting large sums of money it was promoting the education of the children of the labouring classes. He held in his hand a statement which showed that at a school of considerable reputation near the metroplis, which received large grants from the public purse, the children of a superior class of tradesmen, who could as easily afford to pay 1 s d 1274
 MR. BARROW  said, he rose to second the Resolution, because he hoped it would have the effect of bringing back national schools to the use for which they were originally intended. The grants were in many instances misappropriated, and the children of the poorer classes were no longer educated in these schools, but were elbowed out of them by the children of the middle classes. The result was that a description of education was given in the schools which was not suited to the requirements of the poorer portion of the population.
 MR. DEEDES  said, he wished to call the attention of the Committee to the question actually before them. The right hon. Member (Mr. Adderley) seemed to think that the proposition of the hon. Member for Berkshire was directed against all certificated masters; in fact, that it was an attack upon them, although he (Mr. Deedes) fully appreciated the services of the certificated teachers, but there were many instances in which schools might be conducted in a perfectly satisfactory manner without having recourse to that class of masters. He took his stand on the words of the Resolution, and while recognising to the utmost the value of the certificated masters, he maintained that the schools which were well conducted by un-certificated masters ought not to be ignored, and ought to have an equal claim to the advantages of the grant. He would ask the Committee to show by their vote that they did not wish to restrict the work of education, but to extend its blessings to all.
 CAPTAIN STACPOOLE  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, When the Returns relating to County Infirmaries and Fever Hospitals (Ireland), ordered on the 26th July, 1861, and 28th February, 1862, will be laid upon the table?
 MR. BAINES  said, he then rose to move his other Resolution—
 "That, although Evening Schools are valuable, as means of confirming and carrying on the education received in Day Schools, it is unnecessary and inexpedient to grant public money for their support, inasmuch as the youth attending them are generally in the receipt of wages, and are well able to pay the small charge for evening instruction, and also because numerous Evening Schools and Classes already exist in connection with the voluntary institutions, and are constantly increasing in number and efficiency."
 MR. BAINES  said, he then rose to propose a Resolution which must be regarded as the antithesis to that which the Committee had just negatived. The effect of the Resolution of the hon. Member for Berkshire was to extend the Government grants downwards, while the object of the Resolution he intended to propose was to contract the range of those grants upwards. In consequence of the advice of a most experienced Member of that House, he had somewhat modified the Resolution of which he had given notice, and the shape in which he intended to move it was as follows:—
 "That, in order to prevent an unnecessary and undue expenditure of public money, it is expedient that the Managers of a School, before receiving Capitation Money from the Committee of the Privy Council on Education, should satisfy the Inspector that the circumstances of the parents on behalf of whose children such capitation grant is claimed are such as to require public assistance for the education of their children." "That the district in which the school is situated is one where a good and efficient school would not be likely to be maintained without aid from the public purse." 1272 d d "That, in order to prevent any unnecessary and undue expenditure of public money, it is ex-
 1273
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had no objection to agree to the proposal of the hon. Member for Finsbury, for referring this Bill to a Select Committee, as far as related to the inclosure of Chigwell, in Essex, on the understanding that the Select Committee would be named by the Committee of Selection in the same manner as any private Bill.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, before the right hon. Gentleman speaks in reply, I am desirous of addressing a few words to the House. After the concessions which have been made by the right hon. Gentleman the Vice President of the Board of Education in deference to the opinions expressed in the former debutes, I quite concur in the course taken by my right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge. However our opinions may differ as to the result of these changes, I do not think that sufficient ground exists for a fair Parliamentary opposition to the general scope of them. But every speech which I have heard to-night increases the regret I felt at the refusal of the noble Lord to give us more time for the consideration of these changes. The subject is now being-regarded in all parts of the country with the greatest interest; and since it first gained public attention we never have had a fairer prospect, taking advantage of the valuable Report of the Commissioners, and aided by the experience and ability of the right hon. Gentleman opposite, of arriving at a final settlement of the difficulties
 1230 s s s s 1231 1232 1233
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  in reply said, that the Returns relating to County Infirmaries and Fever Hospitals in Ireland had been ordered, but that they had not yet been received.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he had seldom listened to a speech with more disappointment and regret than he had done to the speech of the hon. Member for Berkshire. When he saw the Resolution his hon. Friend had placed on the paper, he was anxious to support it; but really the speech of his hon. Friend was so opposed to much that he felt on the subject that he was in some difficulty as to the course he should pursue. At all events, it was impossible he could follow his hon. Friend into the lobby as he originally intended, without stating the reasons that induced him to support his Resolution. His hon. Friend had rested his proposition, upon an attack on the present body of certificated masters and pupil-teachers. Now, there was no body of men to whom the country owed a deeper debt of gratitude than to the certificated schoolmasters and pupil-teachers. They had had a difficult task to perform, and, on the whole, they had performed it to admiration. Taking the testimony borne by the Report of the Commissioners, they might fairly say that no body of men had rendered greater services to the present generation than the certificated masters. He was sorry to hear his hon. Friend raking up stories and reading letters from unassisted schoolmasters tending to throw a sort of odium and bring into contempt so valuable a body of men. Nor could he agree with the hon. Member for Whitby (Mr. Thompson) that the questions put to the students in the training colleges were, upon the whole, not well chosen, although extreme cases might be found. The training colleges and the trained masters were among the greatest blessings of this century. Any one who recollected what schools were before this system was introduced would see what a great advance had been made, and what the country owed to it. On the whole, he was well pleased with the general principle on which the Revised Code was founded. The difficulty he felt with regard to it was that he had feared it would inflict too severe a blow upon the trained masters. But he no longer had that fear. Had he retained it, he should have been prepared to oppose the Code. He believed that, owing to the merits of the teachers themselves, they would, under any system, command their value in the market; the country would never go back to the teachers the trained masters had suspended. But, while he said this, there were other grounds on which he was pre-
 1263 1264 1265
 MR. PEEL  said, that the Salaries only, and not the travelling expenses, were allowed to count towards the pensions of these gentlemen. No more of any commuted allowance than the excess received over what they actually paid for their travelling expenses was liable to Income Tax.
 MR. PEEL : Certainly not.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : The Commission, I believe, are considering their Report, or are about to consider it, and the information I have received lends me to think that they are likely to agree to it in about a fortnight; but I cannot pledge myself as to the particular time when the Report will be in print and ready to be laid on the table.
 LORD STANLEY  thought it was better, on the whole, to leave the administration of Ceylon where it was. In the first place, to put it in plain words, India was quite large enough already. If the extent of that empire was one of the great difficulties of its administration, tasking to the utmost the energies of any man, it was unwise to increase the labour and responsibility of the Governor General, especially as the difficulty of governing was likely to increase with the growth among the native population of European ideas. In the next place, he did not believe the people of Ceylon desired the change. When he knew something of the island, some ten or eleven years ago, union with India was the one thing deprecated as contrary to their interests. As the matter now stood, they were in direct communication with England if any question arose which could not be dealt with by the Government on the spot; but if Ceylon were connected with India, upon any such question there must first be communication with Calcutta, and then communication from Calcutta to England. It was obvious that that could not be done without considerable delay and inconvenience; they would become, in fact, the dependency of a dependency. There was some advantage also in the smallness of the island, compared with India. The Governor of Ceylon, if a man at all equal to his post, ought to have a personal knowledge of every part of the country and of every official person who was employed in it. The value of the master's eye was proverbial, and that would be lost if the colony were turned into a lieutenant governorship. He thought there was a fur-
 1291
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he rose for the
 1304 1305 1306 1307 1308
 ADMIRAL DUNCOMBE  said, he entirely agreed that it was necessary that the harbours should be constructed, though he was bound to admit that the present moment was not the most opportune at which to ask for an increase of expenditure, as their financial arrangements left no large margin. At the same time, they ought to bear in mind that the demand now put forth could not involve any very great outlay at the outset, and whatever was spent would be usefully employed, which could not be said of expenditure upon forts at Spithead and Plymouth. Besides, the harbours of refuge would also be a means of defence. His hon. Friend had referred to the loss of life on the north-east coast of England and
 1309
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, that having had the honour of being a Member of the two Committees on this subject, and also of the Commission appointed by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Droit-wich to carry the inquiries of those Committees, he further wished to take some part in this discussion. The hon. Member for Montrose had found great fault with the Commissioners because they had increased the estimates of the Committees. The hon. Gentleman did not seem to be aware that there was any great difference between estimates on such a subject as that under consideration framed by a Committee of that House and the estimates framed by the members of a Commission, with the aid of celebrated engineers and the advantage of a personal inspection of the harbours to which the estimates referred. The Commissioners had investigated the matter with the greatest possible care; and he would venture to assert that the estimate which they had made would carry out the
 1313 1314 1315
 LORD ADOLPHUS VANE TEMPEST  said, the question of harbours of refuge was in a most unsatisfactory condition. Five years ago the Committee appointed to inquire into the subject first assembled. They assiduously prosecuted their inquiries for two Sessions, and received the acknowledgments of the House for their attention. A Commission was then appointed, for which they were indebted to the late Government, and the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Droitwich. Two able Members of that Commission had addressed them to-night, and he should not repeat their arguments. But he must be allowed to impress upon the House, that from St. Abbs to Flamborough Head, a distance of nearly one hundred miles, there was no really safe harbour. Along the eastern coast 48 per cent of the coasting trade and 35 per cent of the whole trade of England passed; and, out of 5,580 vessels, 2,104 were lost there. If only 30 per cent of the property lost by wrecks on the coast of England could be saved, the whole expense of these proposed harbours of refuge would be recouped in four years. Millions had been spent upon the Bouth coast, and something ought to be done for the east coast. The opponents of the Motion said that there was a difference of opinion between the Commission and the Committee,
 1316
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, it was in vain to attempt to represent the question as one in which the Government alone were interested, or to think that the matter could be decided by a mere  argu-mentum ad hominem 1331
 MR. LINDSAY  said, that as hon. Members on both sides were agreed in regard to the desirability of having harbours of refuge, the only question was how to provide the means. He thought he could complain with justice of the want of clearness in the statements of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade and the Secretary of State for War on the score of expense. The unconditional outlay which the Commissioners had recommended amounted to £1,340,000, and was to be confined to Filey, St. Ives, Water-ford, Carlingford, and Padstow; while the sum that they suggested should be raised conditionally was £1,025,000, provided a sum of £1,625,000 was raised from local sources. The total sum amounted to £2,365,000, but all the House was then asked to vote unconditionally was £1,340,000. If the recommendations of the Commissioners were neglected, he estimated that the loss to the commerce of the country in the next ten years would be £20,000,000. If the interest on a loan secured by terminable annuities was £100,000, that would amount in ten years to £1,000,000. Again, if they assumed that one-sixth of the property would be saved by the construction of harbours of refuge which would otherwise be lost, that would amount to £3,500,000. Let them deduct from that the £1,000,000 paid for interest, and there would be a balance of two and a half millions to the public credit. On the ground he had mentioned he appealed to the House with confidence to
 1336
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  explained, that the works sanctioned by the Commissioners were estimated to cost £4,000,000, and his argument was, that their assumption that a portion of the £4,000,000 would be obtained from local sources would prove illusory.
 MR. LINDSAY  contended, that, on the contrary, if the local amounts were not forthcoming, then the only sum that Government could be asked for would be £1,340,000, a sum which, as he had explained, it would be most prudent and economical to expend.
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  moved for a Select Committee to inquire as to the best means of preserving Harwich Harbour as a harbour of refuge.
 MR. M. T. SMITH  said, that as a member of the Temple he had no objection to the return, although it would not only be a frivolous return but a partial one. He could not help thinking the introduction of the names of the Benchers was for some invidious purpose.
 MR. HODGSON  said, he thought it the duty of the Government to prevent the expenditure of the public money in so useless a manner.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, it was clear from the observations which had been made that there was not the slightest reluctance on the part of the Benchers to give the information required. It appeared to him, however, to be equally evident that there was a strong feeling against the expenditure of the public money in procuring documents which, when obtained, could be of very little value.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he wished to remind the right hon. Gentleman, that although it was true the Trading Harbours Bill of last Session, which would, doubtless, in due time bear good fruit, was recommended by the Merchant Shipping Committee, yet that it was but a secondary recommendation, while their chief proposition—the construction of harbours of refuge—had been disputed and over-ruled by the Government. With regard to the arguments of the President of the Board of Trade against the Motion, he was answered and refuted by his own officer, Captain Sullivan; for it was on his evidence and that of Captain Washington, and the facts they adduced, that the calculations and recommendations of the Commission were mainly founded. The right hon. Gentleman had met the statements of gentlemen of professional experience and local knowledge by a plain negative. Of course, it was easy when a statement was made to dispose of it by saying, "I don't believe it;" but the evidence in favour of these harbours of refuge was not to be got rid of in this manner. The right hon. Gentleman had alarmed the House by the financial difficulty which he raised, and which, in the absence of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, could not be solved. He (Mr. Liddell) confessed he was not sorry at the absence of that right hon. Gentleman, because he very well knew that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had made up his mind that the proposed expenditure of the public money would be inexpedient. The right hon. Gentleman asked the House whether they were prepared to vote an addition to the taxation of the country for the construction of those harbours. Now, such a contingency was not absolutely necessary. There were two ways of meeting an additional expense—the one was by an increase of taxation, the other by a reduction of our ordinary expenditure. Why should not the latter course be adopted instead of the former? He also thought be had a right to complain that the Government, after resisting the entreaties of the maritime population of this country, and the recommendations of a Committee and a Commission, were sanctioning the outlay of sums the utility of which was exceedingly doubtful. The Government, for example, were going to ask for £90,000 in a few days for Alderuey harbour, which was useless as a
 1327
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  replied, that he should have no sort of objection to lay the Report upon the table; but it was in fact only a preliminary Report, and was not complete. The proposals that had
 1280 Coquette
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that when-
 1301 1302 1303
 MR. SELWYN  said, he also wished to express his readiness, on behalf of the Benchers of Lincoln's Inn, to have all the information which the returns could give afforded to the House. In that Inn there were no Bench chambers, nor did the Benchers, as such, receive any pay or emolument. While, however, he had no objection to the information asked for being furnished, he would put it to hon. Members whether, as guardians of the public purse, they would deem it right to incur the expense of printing returns which would be absolutely worthless.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he was glad to find that the hon. Gentleman had not called upon the House by a substantive Motion to pledge itself to any opinion. When he first saw the hon. Gentleman's notice in the books he was under some fear that the hon. Gentleman had discovered some abuse in the Government of Ceylon, or discontent on the part of its inhabitants, which had certainly not reached the ears of the public or of the Government of this country. He was, however, reassured by a knowledge of the fact, which, no doubt, was known to the hon. Gentleman and to other Members of the House, that there were other possessions of the late East India Company in the East, the inhabitants of which, there was every reason to believe, desired to see a contrary process take place to that proposed by the hon. Gentleman—namely, a transfer of themselves from the Indian department to that of the colonies. Upon listening to the speech of the hon. Gentleman, he was gratified to find, as a representative of the Colonial Department, that the hon. Gentleman's reasons for making his proposal were not that he conceived Ceylon to be ill-governed, or that any discontent or want of prosperity prevailed there. On the contrary, the hon. Gentleman admitted that Ceylon of late years had been well governed, and had consequently attained such a degree of prosperity and wealth that he was anxious to liberate it from the tutelage of the Colonial Office, and to relieve the Imperial Government from any expense whatever on its account. About the prosperity of Ceylon he (Mr. C. Fortescue) thought there could be no question. That prosperity was of very recent date. There was every prospect that it would continue. It dated only from the suppression by Viscount Torrington of the last Kandian insurrection. Since that time the finances of the colony had been restored to a healthy state and Ceylon had continued to progress in prosperity. The revenue was the best test of prosperity. In the year 1854 the revenue of Ceylon was £400,000. It had remained stationary at that point for many years antecedently. But shortly after the year 1854 the revenue increased, and in the year 1860 it became £760,000. That increase of the revenue was closely connected with another gratifying fact—namely, the amount of public works undertaken in the colony. Between the years 1855 and 1860
 1289 1290
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether, with respect to events now occurring at Herat, any proceeding or operation, Diplomatic or Military, will be undertaken, either by the English or Indian Govern-
 1281
 MR. CRAUFURD  rose to move for a
 "Return from each of the Societies of the Inner
 1337
 MR. CRAUFURD  observed, that the Report of the Commissioners, to which allusion had been made, contained no information equivalent to that for which he asked. He might add that the  Law List
 MR. BENTINCK  said, that one of the difficulties connected with the matter arose from local rivalries, and the question was, how far different localities could be made to meet the Government half-way in reference to the necessary expenditure. The right hon. Baronet had referred to another
 1332 1333
 MR. BENTINCK : I will beg to ask the noble Lord whether he is able to say at what probable time the evidence and the Report of the Defence Commission will be in the hands of Members.
 MR. LYALL : I am well aware that the House is very anxious to go to a division on another subject. I will therefore not detain it by any reply, but content myself with observing that I am glad, at any rate, to have the assurance from the Government, that although they are not prepared, and perhaps not in favour of the transfer of Ceylon from the Colonial to the Indian Department, yet they agree
 1292
 MR. LYALL  said: Sir, in bringing before the House the subject of which I have given notice, I am well aware that there are probably many Members here whose acquaintance with the East and personal experience in that part of the world to which I am about to refer would have enabled them to call your attention far more effectually to the consideration of a question of so much importance. Those Gentlemen will, however, I trust, give us the benefit of their knowledge and experience this evening; and, for my part, I may say that I have not been induced to undertake this duty through any external influence, or at the instigation of any interested parties, but solely by a desire to promote the good government of our dependencies, and, as far as is consistent with justice and sound policy, to save the Imperial Exchequer. With this object, I hope to occupy the time of the House very briefly, and will take care not to weary it by reading many extracts and statistics; for this subject ought to be as interesting as it is important, if it had fallen into the hands of those who could treat it with the ability it deserves. 1283 1284 "Those who seek Administrative Reform will here find a rich field for their exertions. It is cumbrous and embarrassed, complicated in its processes, and slow in its performances. It is in reality a relic of the old Dutch system patched and altered by successive Governments to meet emergencies; but requiring at the present day fundamental changes to adapt it to the transition through which the colony is passing." "Few servants of ability have been trained in the colony, and in fact the narrow area of selection obliges the Governor to refer to England for the higher posts in the service." 1285 Moxere non quieta quasi 1286 d s s d s 1287 1288
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he rose to move—
 "That this House will immediately resolve itself into a Committee to consider the Act of the 8th and 9th of Victoria, for the endowment of the College of Maynooth, with a view to the Repeal of the same, due regard being had to vested rights and interests." 1293 Cries of 1294 1295 1296 1297
 MR. PEASE  observed, that the hon. Member for Montrose went too far when he said that the former Resolution in favour of harbours of refuge was carried only by the votes of those whose constituencies were likely to profit by it. It was impossible that all the three hundred Members who were present on the occasion could be interested in the matter. The question was of a national character, and was not a mere shipowners' question. The want of proper shelter for shipping on our coasts placed an additional charge on our exports and imports, and that injured our commerce, and infringed the comfort of every one. He held that the plan recommended by the Commissioners was just and reasonable. The Government ought to do something to protect a mercantile marine, which was of such importance to the country.
 MR. BLAKE  said, the hon. Member for Montrose had most unjustly left the House to infer that the Committee were influenced in their commendation of certain localities as harbours of refuge, by the circumstance of being connected with them. The best proof that they had decided on the best places was the fact, that the Royal Commission, subsequently appointed, concurred in their decision. The members of the latter, soon after their appointment, met in London and determined on the elements necessary in a good harbour. "The first object being to save life; next, property, to facilitate commerce; and lastly, our defences, and in connection with them to secure a rendezvous for our ships of war." The places they adopted fulfilled these requirements, and were the same as those recommended by the Committee, and so far the latter were fully vindicated Against the
 1317 1318 Tiger Anglia Merrimac Monitor Warrior 1319 1320
 MR. BLAKE  remarked, that it was, in some respects, a most oppressive measure, and would not, for a moment, be tolerated in England. It was altogether a landlords' Act, which, indeed, nearly every Act in that House was, and ought to be protested against, as a matter of principle, at every stage.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he should divide the House, because the Bill destroyed the assimilation of the law in England and Ireland which was accomplished by the Criminal Consolidation Acts of last Session.
 MR. LOCKE  said, the hon. and learned Member for Ayr would get much of the information he wanted in the  Law List 1339
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he saw no objection to furnishing the information asked for. At the same time, he would suggest that it should be extended so as to include an account of all the money received since the reign of Queen Elizabeth, the mode in which it had been expended, and the names of the distinguished individuals who had filled the office, adding that he believed he should find in the result that he for one should be very proud to be one of their successors.
 MR. SOMES  then read the following extract from a letter of the Rev. J. Vaughan, P.P., who is a leading member of St. Patrick's Brotherhood, as lately published in the  Irishman "From the coast of Labrador to the Mississippi, and from the Mississippi to San Francisco, I shall rouse the anger and execration of every portion of ray countrymen, and of every lover of freedom and mankind, on the murderous assault now being made on the defenceless, destitute people of this country by the English Government. "Very faithfully, "JEREMIAH VAUGHAN, P.P." "D. Holland, Esq." "As we have no hope of aid from the Government, I would suggest that a deputation should go to France, and ask our Celtic brethren to come to the aid of our broken-hearted, neglected countrymen. I will offer myself as a member of that deputation, and assist to place Ireland in her sores, not only before France, but before every city gate in Europe; and by that means bring the withering execration of the civilized world on the Saxon destroyers of our blood and kindred." 1299
 MR. SOMES  seconded the Motion. He said, I rise with great pleasure to second the Motion which has been so ably brought before this House by the hon. Member for Peterborough, and I do so with a lively, but not a very grateful recollection of the reception I met with on a former occasion from certain hon. Members below the gangway on both sides of the House. I have this day had the honour of presenting; a petition from the Borough of Hull, with upwards of 5,000 signatures attached,; praying for the withdrawal of all endowment from the College of Maynooth, which is some warrant for my occupying the attention of the House. I think, that as a mere question of money, the matter now before us is not unimportant, for, as the House is aware, the expenditure on Maynooth College up to 1845 was £500,00(). and from that year to the present it has reached to the sum of £900,000. It is important to remark that the cost to the country of each priest educated at Maynooth, as shown in a return moved for by the hon. Member for Peterborough, and recently presented to this House, is £500. I also find that the grants to Romish Schools in Ireland in thirty years, from 1833, amount to about two millions and a half, and to those in England in the course of the last ten years about a quarter of a million. I venture to say that in the opinion of the great body of Protestants throughout the kingdom this outlay is worse than thrown away, and that no possible good can be expected to arise from it. Moreover, I do not find that any sum is levied from the taxation of the country for the education of pastors of any other religious community, and therefore I contend that this grant is an anomaly which ought to be reconsidered by this
 1298
 MR. SOMES : If the hon. Member is anxious to speak, I beg to assure him I shall not be long.
 MR. COLLIER  said, that on the part of the Benchers he could assure the House there would be no objection to the Motion. The number of Bench chambers now held was exactly the same as in the time of Queen Elizabeth. Formerly the Benchers paid nothing for admission; now they paid 300 guineas, for which they received no equivalent. He believed the fullest information had been given by the Benchers to the Royal Commissioners; but if any further detail were required, they would be happy to furnish it.
 MR. COLLINS  said, he hoped the Motion would be agreed to. He saw no reason why the information should not be given.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that if the population of the district would contribute a share of the expenditure, proportionately to the advantages which they would derive from it, the Government would be prepared to do its part towards preserving that valuable harbour. Some inquiry was, however, necessary in order to settle the proportion and to determine some other points, and he should not therefore oppose the appointment of a Select Committee.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that many general statements had been made in the course of the debate in which they must all concur. They must all regret, for instance, the lamentable losses which were annually caused by shipwrecks, and admit that a country which had good harbours had an advantage over a country which had no harbours, or only bad ones. They might also admit the gallantry and daring of our sailors, and the existence of some amount of indifference to their welfare on the part of those who sent ships to sea in an unseaworthy condition. But the question the House had to consider was, how far these things threw light upon the proposition of his hon. Friend the Member for Sunderland, or would enable hon. Members to form an opinion as to whether or not they ought to pledge themselves to the carrying-out, at a large expense, of certain works at particular points on the coasts of the United Kingdom. It had been said that since the adoption, in the year 1860, of his hon. Friend's Resolution, recommending that the Commissioners' Report should be carried out, the Government had done nothing in the matter. He could not admit that that had been the case. On the contrary, they had done a part, and a very important part of what the Commissioners recommended should be done, The Commissioners recommended that "large sums should be devoted to the improvement of trading harbours through the medium of the Public Works Loan Commissioners; that those loans should be made at 3 per cent interest, and should be repaid by means of a sinking fund in the space of fifty years." The Government introduced a Bill embodying that identical proposition. It was passed
 1321 1322 1323 Royal Charter Royal Adelaide Amazon Mobile 1324 Queen Victoria Annie Jane Tayhun Havannah Pomona Royal Charter Blervie 1325 1326
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : I said it would be £8,000,000 instead of £4,000,000.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : The Commission says £4,000,000.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY : The hon. Gentleman has not answered my question. I want to know whether he is speaking or reading his speech.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY : May I ask the hon. Member whether he is speaking or reading his speech?
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, that he did not agree with a single clause of the Bill.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, it was for the advantage of the Benchers that the information should be given, and by giving it all difficulties would be removed. He wished the Motion had been extended to Ireland.
 MR. BAXTER  said, he rose to express a hope that neither the Government nor the House would lightly give their sanction to the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Sunderland. It was quite true that a Resolution was passed by that House two years previously to the effect that the recommendations of the Royal Commission ought to be carried out. But under what circumstances was that Resolution passed? It was one of those instances—many of which must be within the recollection of the House—of a Resolution passed  per incuriam 1310 1311 Royal Charter Pomona Blervie Castle Royal Charter 1312
 CAPTAIN STACPOOLE  said, he would withdraw the clause.
 CAPTAIN STACPOOLE  said, he should move that the Bill be re-committed, for the purpose of inserting a clause emposing a fine of ten shillings upon any person who should suffer a dog to be at large without a muzzle within fifty yards of any high road, and empowering a justice to authorize the destruction of the dog.
 MR. BAINES  said, that he had been in communication with many chambers of commerce in Lancashire and Yorkshire, who had entreated himself and his Colleague to do all that they could to advance this cause. He trusted that the Government would see that both humanity and the public interest demanded that the work of making these harbours should be commenced without delay.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he could not but express his deep regret at the language used by several hon. Members as to
 1334
 MR. FRANK CROSSLEY  said, he could not see that the question of the paper duty was at all relevant to that under discussion. He denied that the country was less able to make harbours of refuge because the paper duty had been removed. Perhaps the hon. Gentleman opposite thought a tax of 5 s
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, he should oppose the clause, which would put an end to foxhunting
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, it was too late at that hour (a quarter past twelve) to proceed with the second reading of the Inns of Court Government Bill, but it would be very desirable that the information comprised in the return should be presented to the House before the discussion took place upon that Bill, and he should therefore second the Motion. As things stood the public had no means of satisfying themselves of the proper administration of the Inns of Court.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  observed, that the form of the Motion implied that the Government had power to give information. They had no such power, and it was for the Benchers to decide whether they would give it or not. If the Benchers consented to afford the information, of course the Government could have no objection; but as the Motion originally
 1338
 MR. ADAIR  expressed his satisfaction at the concession on the part of the Government.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, as the season for carrying on works was rapidly passing away, he wished to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, When a discussion will be taken on the propriety of proceeding with the erection of the three Forts at Spithead?
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, If he will lay on the table of the House the Report of a Committee appointed by the Admiralty to consider the ventilation of Her Majesty's Ships; whether Her Majesty's Ships and Vessels destined for tropical climates since the reception of that Report have been fitted in conformity with the opinion of that Committee; and whether the Officer commanding the  Coquette
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that as several hon. Members had referred to him as having appointed the Commission which sat upon this subject, he felt bound to remind the House that it was not the late Government who originated that Commission, though it devolved upon them to appoint the Members of which it was composed. The appointment of a Commission was recommended by a Committee which sat under the previous Government, and of which the late Mr. Wilson was Chairman, and it was in consequence of their Report that the Commission was appointed. He (Sir J. Pakington) acted on that occasion upon the same principles which influenced him two years ago when the hon. Member for Sunderland brought forward the question, and upon the same principles he was prepared to act that night, because the question was one which involved the commercial interests of this country. He confessed that he had heard the speech of the right hon. Gentleman with considerable disappointment. The right hon. Gentleman, had said that the Government had carried out the recommendations of the Commission. [Mr. MILNER GIBSON: To some extent.] To a very limited extent. The right hon. Gentleman had told them that the Bill enabling certain localities to raise money to improve their harbours had been acted upon, but he did not say what places had availed themselves of it. [Mr. MILNER GIBSON: I mentioned the Tyne.] He begged the right hon. Gentleman's pardon, but he did not hear him specify any particular locality. It had been well said that the question was a national question, and it was not to be expected that limited localities would raise from their own funds a sufficient sum to carry out what the national interests required. Then, the right hon. Gentleman, setting aside the authority and disregarding the Reports of the Commission, had given his own loose and unsupported conjectures as to the cost of carrying out that great national work, stating that the expense
 1329
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : The public grant, however, would be only £2,500,000. It was only in the latter part of his speech that the right hon. Gentleman endeavoured to grapple with the merits of the question, and he did it by informing the House, that if they had those harbours of refuge tomorrow, they would not save all the lives that might be in danger. They all knew that perfectly well. And then the right hon. Gentleman used the extraordinary argument that they had the lifeboats to trust to. The debate had lasted four hours, and not a single Gentleman, except the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter), had taken the view advocated by the right hon. Gentleman. The hon. Member for Montrose had endeavoured to show that the opinions of the Committee and of the Commission did not agree, but he passed by the important fact that both Committee and Commission concurred in thinking that the national interests would be promoted by the construction of harbours of refuge, and that that opinion had been confirmed by the deliberate decision of the House taken a few years ago. But they were wasting time in deliberating upon what had been decided over and over again. The Royal Commission and the Committee of that House declared their opinion that the establishment of harbours of refuge would tend in a great degree to diminish the loss of life and property experienced every year. Another fact of importance was, that they had only two harbours of refuge in this country, Holy head and Portland; and whenever heavy weather came on, those harbours were filled with hundreds of vessels, which otherwise would have to face the dangers of the open sea during the terrible storms of winter. And what was the reason of the right hon. Gentleman for opposing the present Motion? It was one founded on finance; and having exaggerated the cost, the right hon. Gentleman asked where he was to find the ways and means. He would listen to any fair argument on the question, but one argument to which he would not listen as coming from the present Government was that of finance; for in 1860 they
 1330
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I speak from recollection, but I believe the real estimate is £2,500,000.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : I wish, Sir, before the House goes to a division to say a few words on this subject. I admit that the question now before us has given rise to considerable difference of opinion; but as it is one which has been so often discussed without producing any change in the conscientious convictions of those who agree with the hon. Member for Peterborough (Mr. Whalley), I shall, with the permission of the House, as far as possible pursue the course which has been followed during the last few years. If I have risen to address the House on this occasion, it is rather from a feeling of respect for the honourable motives and conscientious convictions of those hon. Members who desire to withdraw this grant than from a desire to enter into any discussion upon the merits of the case. The hon. Member referred to the Act of 1845, introduced and passed by the Government of that day. Of course it is not at all necessary for me to enter into the history of this grant. The House is well aware of all the leading circumstances connected with it, and I would therefore merely refer to one point as bearing upon certain statements made by the hon. Gentleman. The House is aware that this grant was originally made in 1795 by Mr. Pitt, of whom Lord Macaulay has said that "he was the first English Minister who entertained a really sanguine intention of benefiting Ireland by endeavouring to place the people of Ireland upon a footing of equal laws, equal rights, and equal liberties." Well, what had been done by Mr. Pitt remained, with various modifications, until 1845; and the hon. Gentleman is quite correct in
 1300
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he hoped that his hon. Friend would withdraw the clause.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, the right hon. Gentleman had asked the House to consider the matter in a business spirit. He (Sir M. Peto) would ask what the House had already done. Who was it that had appointed the Committee and the Commission to report on the subject? On the other hand, what had been done by the Government? What the Government should have done was to endeavour to give effect to the recommendations of the Committee and of the Commission, supported as those recommendations were by the deliberate decisions of the House. The Government ought to have obtained estimates based on those recommendations, and there was no difficulty in defining the cost of works of the kind. The fault of the Government hitherto had been that they had not been sufficiently careful in the first instance in ascertaining the cost. What the Government should do should be to come down to the House and say the cost of these various works would be so much money. Then, with regard to the manner in which the money might be raised, they had had an instance lately with regard to the fortifications, for erecting which £11,000,000 was to be raised by terminable annuities. Let a similar course be pursued with respect to harbours of refuge, and the sum to be raised for a period of thirty years upon terminable
 1328
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that though he would admit that the question of the paper duty was somewhat irrelevant to that before the House, he could not allow the taunt directed at his right hon. Friend the Member for Droitwich to
 1335
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he had a question to put to the Secretary to the Treasury with regard to the Superannuation of certain classes of Civil Servants. The House was aware that the principle upon which Superannuations were fixed was, that the Salaries the Civil Servants received were taken as a basis upon which the Superannuations were allowed, regulated according to the years of service. There were, however, certain officers, Poor Inspectors and others, employed in travelling about, who received, in addition to their salaries, allowances for travelling expenses, and those allowances had been commuted into a fixed annual allowance. He wished to know whether this class were required to pay Income Tax upon the commuted allowance; and if it appeared that that was the case, whether they were allowed to calculate the emoluments upon which they paid Income Tax as part of the Salary upon which they could claim superannuation?
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE : Have the Civil Servants a right to reckon the emoluments upon which they pay Income Tax as part of the Salary upon which they may claim superannuation allowance?
 MR. BOVILL  said, that as a Bencher of the Middle Temple, he had no objection to the production of the information asked for. He might, however, state that with regard to the possession of chambers, and the receipt of other emoluments, full information was given in the Report of the Commissioners appointed in 1854, printed in a blue-book. Other information might be desirable; but the Motion related to only one side of the question, and he thought it ought to embrace both. He had never heard a suggestion of misappropriation or misconduct with regard to the property of the Inns of Court since the time of Elizabeth.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, the only answer I can give the hon. Gentleman is that neither Her Majesty's Government nor the Indian Department have received any information whatever tending to show that any such operations against Herat have been undertaken by the Shah of Persia; and putting all the circumstances together, we are inclined entirely to disbelieve the report.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, the Commission to whom that question was referred in deference to the obvious opinion of the House of Commons, have not yet reported. Whenever their Report is made, it will be necessary, as we stated before Easter, to come to Parliament for a Vote, and on that occasion, of course, the question will be discussed. I am quite aware that that reference, together with the suspension of the works, has been attended with considerable expense; and if it should turn out, on the Report of the Commissioners, that these forts are necessary to cooperate with and support the nautical defences, then of course a certain amount of valuable time will have been lost. That we stated to the House; but the House were so entirely run away with, owing to the report of the encounter between the  Merrimac Monitor 1282
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he thought it would be inexpedient to pro-
 1342 1343
 MR. HENLEY  said, the remarks of the hon. and learned Attorney General induced him to ask the Government to turn its attention to the position in which the poorer classes were left in respect to imprisonment for debt. Recent legislation had had the effect of almost clearing our prisons of persons who had been incarcerated on account of having contracted large amounts of debt; while, on the other hand, the system of what he might call penal imprisonment was still continued against the humbler order of debtors, simply because a County Court Judge might be of opinion that they could pay if they liked. Parliament having, therefore, almost wholly abolished imprisonment for debt as affecting the upper and middle ranks of society, he wished the Government now to consider if it was fair or just to subject the poorer classes to confinement in gaol for debt pure and simple, while their families were, perhaps, left to starve in the mean time.
 MAJOR HAMILTON  observed, that he did not think that the Justices of the Peace were any the worse for not being lawyers. He quite agreed that consolidation was desirable; but if the effect of adopting the Resolution of the hon. and learned Member for Ayr would be to throw over the Bill from this Session, he could not support it. There had been a general expression of
 1348
 MR. LESLIE  said, the Royal Commission appointed in 1859 sat at ten different places, and took evidence in open court. The evidence so taken was published from day to day in the local papers, and thus all Scotland was made acquainted with the action of the Commissioners. The result of an investigation so conducted had been to silence the clamour that had arisen against the Forbes-Mackenzie Act. The Report of the Commissioners was based upon the evidence, and thus it might be taken as an echo of the general opinion in Scotland. The Commissioners individually might have thought consolidation would be an advantage, but it was not within their province to make any recommendation upon that point. He approved of consolidation; but as delay would be fatal to the passing of the Bill during the Session, he hoped the House would proceed with it, and consider the subject of consolidation in the next Session. The Bill itself was not intended to increase restriction, but was a defensive measure to enable a majority of the people of Scotland to protect themselves against the iniquities which were the results of intemperance.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he also would admit the convenience which would result from consolidation, but there was always a difficulty in combining new legislation with a consolidation of the existing law. If they had to go over the Forbes-Mackenzie Act again, there would be no chance of passing any Bill on the subject in the Session; and that being so, it would be better to defer the work of consolidation for another year.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE , as an abstract question, was entirely in favour of the Amendment. There was no doubt that every care ought to be taken to pre-
 1350
 MAJOR HAMILTON  said, there were two points involved. One was, that without the addition it would be impossible for those living at small distances from country towns to get liquors at the same time that they got their other provisions, and to have them delivered by the same vehicles. The other point was, that the proposed change would affect the present law against the opening of public-houses for retail purposes before eight o'clock in the morning. He must say that a greater boon could not be conferred on Scotland, because the working man would not now be able to procure spirits before eight o'clock in the morning.
 MR. PEEL  moved additional words, providing that nothing contained in the clause "should authorize the sale of any exciseable liquor, at any place not specified in an Excise licence, granted in that behalf."
 MR. E. BLLICE (Kilmarnock)  said, he thought the clause a very valuable one.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that while the Bankruptcy Bill of last session was under discussion in that House, he had endeavoured to draw attention to the point just mentioned by the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire; but hon. Members were then so busy in amending the law to suit the convenience of their own class that they could not stop to consider its operation on the poorer classes. The present state of
 1344
 MR. DUNLOP  said, he trusted that intoxication in private houses was not so common as the hon. Member talked of. At any rate, "habit and repute" could not be proved from one or two isolated occurrences.
 MR. MURE  said, that the clause was founded on the recommendation of the Commissioners, who had considered the point very carefully.
 MR. MURE  said, that if a wholesale dealer, who was also a retail dealer, were allowed to open at any hour for the supply of his wholesale customers a wide door would he open to abuse.
 MR. MURE  said, that the sheriff in many instances was a member of the licensing court, and therefore an appeal to the sheriff would be in those cases an appeal from the sheriff to the sheriff.
 MR. MURE  said, he would endeavour to frame a clause to that effect.
 MR. MURE  defended the clause.
 MR. MURE  said, that the opinion of the Royal Commissioners was against the appointment of the sheriff as an appeal judge in these cases. Their report recommended that a selection should be made from the justices, who should be chosen by their own body to act as a court of appeal. The granting of licences was not exactly the kind of cases which a sheriff was best able to determine, for the question involved was not one of law, but of discretion.
 MR. MURE  said, he was convinced that the hon. and learned Member did not wish merely to obstruct the passage of the measure; but the effect of his Resolution, if carried, would be to prevent any legislation upon this subject during the present Session. The Bill was founded upon the recommendations of the Royal Commissioners, who had made no suggestion of consolidation. The Select Committee of last Session had been equally silent upon that point. The measure was one generally approved in Scotland, and calculated to do much good; and having regard to the period of the Session, and the difficulty of a private Member obtaining a day or night for
 1347
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he rose to move the following Resolution:—
 "That, in the opinion of this House, it is not expedient to sanction any further Legislation on the subject of Public Houses in Scotland which does not consolidate as well as amend the present Acts." 1346
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he thought it highly desirable that the appellate jurisdiction, as embodied in the clause, should be altered; and although the sheriff might not be the best possible person to determine such appeals, yet there was no doubt that, being the equivalent in Scotland of a stipendiary magistrate, he was in a perfectly independent position, and would not be subjected to any canvassing, while, from his legal knowledge, he was more fitted to interpret Acts of Parliament than the ordinary magistrates.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he must insist that licensed victuallers and hotel-keepers ought to be placed on the same footing, and that the police ought not to be allowed to enter the premises of the one more than of the other, unless they had reason to believe that a breach of certificate was being committed. He would therefore move the insertion of the words, "in which he has reason to believe a breach of certificate is being committed," in order to place both upon the same footing.
 MR. CRAUFURD  moved a proviso, enabling any retail dealer, who was also a wholesale dealer, to send out on permit the articles specified in his certificates at other hours than were specified in his certificates. It would be a hardship if the wholesale dealer were prevented from sending out two gallons or a puncheon of whisky to his country customers, except in the hours
 1351
 MR. CRUM-EWING  said, he begged to move the addition of another proviso, requiring—
 "The town clerks of those Parliamentary burghs, the magistrates of which were not authorized to grant certificates, to pay to the clerks of the peace of their counties two-thirds of the fees received by them in respect of licences during the time such clerk of the peace shall continue to hold office."
 MR. VANCE  said, that by what he believed to be an oversight a clause had been inserted in the Bankruptcy Bill of last Session which repealed a prevision that had previously been in force, to the effect that County Court Judges should not be allowed to sit in that House. It appeared to him that that prohibition was a, very proper one, and he hoped that some means would be taken to renew it.
 MR. BASS  intimated, that according to his opinion the clauses only that were indispensable should be passed, and that they should go no further.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, if they were to wait for the approval of the County Court Judges to any measure, there would never be any improvement of the law. Of all persons judges were the last to be consulted upon such subjects. If we had been guided by the opinions of Judges, we might still have been hanging women, with children at the breast, for stealing handkerchiefs worth 5 s 1345
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he rose to move the second reading of the Bill. It consisted of eleven clauses only, embracing Amendments in the procedure of the County Courts which had been suggested by parties conversant with the practice in those courts, and which, if sanctioned by the Legislature, would greatly improve the administration of justice. His object was to assimilate the practice of the County Courts to that of the Superior Courts. One; of his Amendments was that the County Courts should have the power exercised by the Superior Courts of bringing third parties into court. Another had reference to the raising of questions of law by special case. By another he sought to extend to County Courts powers in regard to suits on Bills of Exchange already exercised with great advantage to suitors by the Superior Courts. The only provision to which he apprehended exception would be taken was that which gave an appeal from the decision of the Judge in cases where no such appeal now existed. At present the County Court Judges were as absolute as Turkish bashaws in all suits for sums under £20: and under £5 the party had no right even to ask the intervention of a jury, so that the opinion of a County Court Judge was in these cases absolute and final, both as to law and facts. The County Court Judges had also in certain cases a very extraordinary power of imprisonment for periods of thirty days, which might be repeated without at all diminishing the amount of the debt claimed. He did not propose to give an absolute right of appeal, but only in cases where the County Court Judge thought it right to allow an appeal. Another Amendment was to give the County Courts, as the higher courts had under the Common Law Procedure Act, power to entertain equitable defences. These were the main objects of the Bill, and he trusted the House would be of opinion that it was entitled to a second reading.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, it would be a very unusual proceeding to exact a promise from a private Member of the House that he would introduce a particular Bill in the course of another Session.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, that the sheriff had been described as the local stipendiary magistrate in Scotland. But in England no one thought of giving an appeal to the stipendiary magistrate from the justices, and why should a different practice prevail in Scotland?
 MR. DALGLISH  then said, he would not press his Amendment.
 MR. DALGLISH  said, he would move the addition of words, providing that all appeals from the decisions of the Magistrates and Justices should, from and after the passing of the Act, be taken to the Sheriff of the county.
 MR. DALGLISH  said, he wished to know whether the hon. and learned Member for Bute (Mr. Mure), who had charge of the present measure, was prepared to give a pledge, that if it were passed this Session, he would next year bring forward a Consolidation Bill.
 MR. BUCHANAN  seconded the Resolution.
 MR. BUCHANAN  said, he thought there was a general admission that consolidation of the laws relating to public houses in Scotland was desirable, if there were only time to carry it out during the Session. He could not help thinking, that if there were not time enough to attain so desirable an object, it was the fault of those who were in charge of the Bill, for some weeks ago he had given notice of his opinions as to the necessity of consolidation —opinions which were shared by many, if not by most, of the Scottish Members. The subject had been discussed in the Select Committee; and although no recommendation had been made, yet the individual members of that Committee had expressed strong opinions concerning it. He wondered, indeed, that such a piece of patchwork in legislation should have been offered to the consideration of the House. Instead of having a clear and lucid state of the law it was proposed that there should be three Acts of Parliament on the subject; and considering the position of the persons who would be most affected by the provisions of the Bill, it would be impossible to expect them to peruse and understand the law, indeed, it could hardly be expected that the justices of the peace who would have to administer the law, but who were not lawyers, should be able to properly construe several Acts of Parliament on the same subject. As one week or two was all that was required to consolidate the law, there would be no danger of the Bill not being passed into law during the Session if that short time was allowed by the promoters of the Bill. He was not unfriendly to legislation on the subject. He wished for an improvement of the present law, but he should like it in the shape of a consolidation of the existing Acts.
 MR. BUCHANAN  said, it appeared to him that it was not desirable to impose upon the sheriff the petty task of inquiring into the expediency of licensing a public-house in any particular district. The best mode of dealing with the subject would be, in his opinion, to give the appeal from the justices who had already decided upon an application for a licence to some select committee of their body.
 MR. BUCHANAN  said, he thought the clause should be more definite. If a man were to entertain, his friends in his own house, and any of them were to leave in an intoxicated state, which, perhaps, was not so uncommon, the penalty would be incurred. He objected to a house being ticketed by a policeman a shebeen "from habit and repute."
 MR. BUCHANAN  said, he objected to the provision rendering any person found intoxicated in a public-house liable to be
 1353
 MR. BAXTER  said, he believed the general opinion of the Committee was, that the appeal should be to a committee of the justices named by themselves. He hoped that the hon. and learned Gentleman who had charge of the Bill would introduce some provision into the Bill which would give effect to that view of the matter.
 MR. W. EWART  said, he fully admitted the advantages of consolidation, but as he believed the Bill to be a good one, the question with him was whether, if postponed, there would be a chance of losing it altogether. It was well known that there was great danger from delaying Bills in the hands of private Members. He should therefore vote for going into Committee, on the understanding that a consolidation of the law would be attempted next Session.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, there could be no doubt that the point to which the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Henley) had called attention was well worthy of consideration, especially with reference to the change effected last year by the Bankruptcy Act. At the same time, he did not think that practically the poorer class of debtors were detained in prison for debt, but rather because, in the belief of the Judge, they had the means of paying, and refused to do so. But, without expressing a decided opinion on this matter, or pledging the Government to bring in a Bill upon it, he could say they were willing to consider it.
 MR. CAIRD  said, he thought it would be a great mistake to make the stipendiary magistrate superior to the other magistrates upon, not a legal question, but a social arrangement.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, he wished to insert, after the word "annexed," the following proviso:—
 "That the Justices in quarter sessions, to whom any appeal shall be made from a deliverance, granting or refusing, or otherwise disposing of any application for a certificate, may by themselves or any one or more of their number inspect the premises for which a certificate is applied, and make the said report."
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  moved an Amendment requiring the appellant to deposit with the clerk of the justices the amount of the penalty and costs awarded against him.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, he was willing that they should go into Committee, on the understanding that the Consolidation Bill should be submitted to them subsequently.
 LORD NAAS  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether it is the intention of the Government to issue a Special Commission to try the perpetrators of the late murders in the county of Tipperary?
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, it was with some hesitation that he rose to speak after the noble Lord at the head of the Government; but he considered that the question was one upon which some independent Member on the back Opposition benches, and who, consequently, was not under that restriction which attached to the front benches, as containing expectants
 1441 1442 1443
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he had heard with pleasure, but with surprise, the statement of the noble Viscount that we were on the most friendly and cordial relations with all the Powers of Europe and especially with France. That was an extraordinary assertion, because for the last twelve months the noble Viscount had been shaking his fist at France and had called upon Parliament to vote money to provide against the danger that threatened us on the side of France. The noble Viscount had claimed the support of the country on the ground of his foreign policy. To him it seemed a most dangerous policy both as regarded Italy and America; and, if he did not take care, his policy would lead the country into trouble. [Sir GEORGE BOWYER: Hear, hear! and  laughter
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  observed, that the certificated schoolmasters had been not altogether fairly treated, in a recent debate; and although partial extracts from the Commissioners' Reports had been quoted to justify those remarks, he ventured to state that a reference to those Reports would show that the schools under certificated masters met with a larger share of approval from the Inspectors than schools which were under uncertificated masters. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman the Vice President of the Committee of Education would listen to the arguments that had been addressed to him on behalf of the certificated masters by the hon. Members for Perthshire and Cambridgeshire.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, that connected with that Vote was, for the first time, a sum on account of the Royal Dublin Society, and he complained that certain correspondence for which he had moved on the subject, several weeks ago, had not yet been presented.
 MR. PEEL  said, he regretted that the return had not been presented. He was not able to say why it had been delayed, but he would inquire into the cause, and would take care that it should be laid on the table at as early a period as possible.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he wished to know what the duties of the lecturers were.
 LORD NAAS  stated, that the late Government understood distinctly that Sir Robert Kane had declined to go to the College at Cork.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he thought the Bill should be referred to a Select Committee.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, he would accede to that course.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, he would move the second reading of the Bill.
 MR. A. F. EGERTON  said, he rose to give notice that on the Motion for going into Committee of Supply to-morrow he would ask the President of the Poor Law Board certain questions respecting the working of the Poor Law in the cotton-manufacturing districts. He would also ask the Secretary of State for India whether any reductions were to be made in the Indian tariff; and if so, when they would come into operation. He might, perhaps, be allowed to state for the information of the House, that he had seen the hon. Member for North Lancashire (Colonel Wilson Patten) that morning, who had a Notice on the Paper for that night similar to the one he had himself just given, and that he found his hon. Friend suffering from a severe accident, which would prevent his bringing forward the subject that evening.
 MR. AYRTON  asked, whether the charge for establishment, including inspection, would cover the costs of inspection under the new system? With regard to training colleges, he thought they should only attempt to train persons in the mode of conducting schools, and should not give a general education to intending schoolmasters. Pupils would then stay a shorter time, and the expenditure would be much reduced.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he thought the training colleges were a great mistake, and he was therefore glad to hear that a lower standard of examination was to be adopted in them, so as to render the course of study more practical in its nature. He trusted that more attention would thus be given to subjects of elementary instruction.
 MR. LAYARD : Sir, I am happy to be able to inform my hon. Friend that a treaty for the suppression of the Slave Trade has been concluded between Her Majesty's Government and the Government of the United States. The treaty is of a highly satisfactory nature, as it confers the right of search on British vessels, and consequently gives good reason to hope that the Slave Trade, which has been carried on to so great an extent during some years under the United States flag, will be suppressed. As soon as the ratifications have been exchanged, the treaty will be laid on the table of the House.
 MR. DISRAELI : The Motion was made by an hon. Member on the right hon. Gentleman's own side.
 MR. DISRAELI : I am not sorry that my momentary absence from the House should have induced the right hon. Gentleman to make observations which showed that he had been for some time lying under a considerable misconception, that I, either directly or indirectly, had given notice that I should take this opportunity of making some remarks upon his speech at Manchester. I can assure the right hon. Gentleman that he is perfectly mistaken. I had no intention at any time of making any observations upon any speech which he may have made anywhere but in this House. I believe my hon. Friend near me (Sir S. Northcote) did intimate to the right hon. Gentleman that he felt it to be his duty, when occasion offered, to make some observations upon that expression of opinion at Manchester. But he had no authority from me to speak on my part, and I know very well from him that he made no such representation to the House. It is to me a matter of very little importance what the right hon. Gentleman may say at Manchester or any other place, since I have the opportunity of meeting, when necessary, the right hon. Gentleman in this House—the proper place for discussion. But as he has alluded to his visit to Manchester he may permit me, in passing, to give my impressions of what then occurred. It appears that the right hon. Gentleman, wishing for some relaxation after his arduous duties, made a visit to the provinces, in which he apparently assumed somewhat of an agitating character. The right hon. Gentleman upon that occasion touched upon two very important subjects. He touched upon the future prospects of Parliamentary Reform. Now, recollecting that the only speech upon Parliamentary Reform—so far as my memory serves me —the only speech ever delivered by the right hon. Gentleman, was delivered when I had the honour of proposing a measure to effect that object. [The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER: No.] Well, then, the most recent speech, one made only three years ago, the most authoritative statement of the right hon. Gentleman upon that subject, was when he vindicated what, more than eighty years ago, one who was a chief
 1404 1405 quasi 1406 1407 1408 1409 1410 1411 1412 1413 1414 1415 1416 1417 1418 auto da fé 1419 1420 1421 1422 1423 1424 1425 parlance 1426 1427 1428
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he was not surprised at the small amount of debate which the Vote had excited, considering how fully the subject had been discussed recently. The small increase in the Vote was attributable to the yearly increment of schools, and he was glad to believe that under the Revised Code a larger number of schools, chiefly of the poorer class, would receive the benefits of the Vote. The diminution in the grant for books and apparatus met with his approval, but he did not approve of the transfer of ragged and industrial schools to the Home Department, as he thought the whole educational
 1448
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he hoped in that case that the Government would not fill up the vacancy at the Museum.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he could not but express his surprise that hon. Gentlemen below the gangway—men calling themselves Liberals—should support the policy of the Emperor of the French, who had fixed his fangs in the throat of Italy. The policy of France was rather a beacon to be avoided than an example to be emulated in cases of intervention in foreign countries.
 MR. PUGH  said, he hoped, as they were about to close the discussion of the education question for a year, that it would be understood, that they left it  re infectâ 1449
 MR. BALL  intimated, that when the Bill went into Committee, he should oppose the provision which related to licences to private brewers.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that Sir Robert Kane was not wholly responsible for the delay which occurred in making his election between the two offices. A correspondence had been going on between the Irish Government and the Treasury. That correspondence was now closed. An improvement would be made in the professorships; Sir Robert Kane would make his election which of the offices he would retain.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he wished, before the debate closed, to make a few observations, with a view of drawing some closer distinction between the physical support and the moral influence which might be given to another country engaged in war, or in prospect of war. He supposed he might presume that the noble Lord was in Parliament in 1821, and that he then held office in the Government of Lord Liverpool. He (Mr. Whiteside) believed that the noble Lord was then Secretary for War, and possessed then the same vigour and ability for which he was now so remarkable. Those who served the coun-
 1444 1445
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he was surprised to hear that Sir Robert Peel should first have appointed Sir Robert Kane to an office which required his presence in Cork, and then should have given him a post in Dublin which rendered his presence in Cork impossible. He really did not know how Sir Robert Kane, though a very able man, could perform the duties
 1451
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that Sir Robert Kane was appointed to the office of President of the Queen's College in Cork by the late Sir Robert Peel while he was Director of the Museum in Dublin, and he believed that Sir Robert Kane discharged the duties of both offices to the satisfaction of all concerned.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he hoped the Bill would be read a second time now, as it was a measure very much wanted in Ireland.
 MR. HUBBARD  said, that the subjects included in the Bill were very various, and that great inconvenience would, in his judgment, result from including provisions imposing Customs duties and income tax, fixing licences to sell stamps, altering stamps, and repealing the duty on dice in a single measure. He would therefore suggest that some of those matters should be dealt with by separate Bills. He had expected that the income tax would be renewed in exactly the same way as in former cases; but he found that by the twentieth clause of the present Bill the assessment of 1861 was to serve as the basis for the assessment of 1862. He would suggest that that clause should be withdrawn. The effect of the clause would be that increasing incomes would be assessed at a loss ratio than that at which they should be assessed, whereas the decreasing incomes would be deprived of the relief which under the present law they are entitled to.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he thought that the Vote ought to be postponed, as the return which the noble Lord asked for had not been presented. He moved that the Chairman report progress.
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If the attention of Government has been called to the abuses caused by permitting "Civil Bill Decrees" in Ireland to be executed by special bailiffs nominated by the parties obtaining them; and if it is intended to introduce during the Session any measure to improve the administration of the Law on this subject?
 MR. LOWE  said, he agreed with his right hon. Friend that it was not desirable that the same individual should hold both these offices. Sir Robert Kane, he believed, had been called on to make his election between the two offices, but for some reason or other he had not yet done so.
 MR. LOWE  said, that during the ensuing year all the schools now aided by the Privy Council would be examined under the former Code, so that there would be no increase in the charge for inspection with regard to them; and those which came in under the new Code would be so few that no increase was apprehended in their case either. The Code did not come into effect until the 30th of June, and, consequently, the examinations under the new Code would not begin until after that date. He did not think it would be necessary to add to the number of Inspectors, though they might require some assistance during the examinations. As to the cost of the training colleges he quite agreed in the necessity of reducing the proportion contributed by the Government. They now paid 90 per cent of the cost, and had proposed a reduction of 20 per cent in respect of the Queen's scholars, but the House had declined to accede to the proposal. He only hoped that the training colleges themselves would take the matter into consideration, for it was impossible that the present arrangement should be a permanent one, and that establishments professing to be based upon the voluntary system should receive a subvention of 90 per cent from the State, With regard to the point mentioned by the hon. Member (Mr. Pugh), he admitted that the system did not go far enough, but he doubted whether that defect could ever be thoroughly remedied. The completeness of the educational system depend ed on the willingness of persons to come forward with voluntary aid, and it was not in the power of the Government to produce that willingness on the part of the public.
 MR. LOWE  said, it appeared to have been the usual expectation that the person who held his present office, in bringing forward the Vote for Education, should say something that would get up a debate. But he thought the House had lately heard enough on the subject, and that he would best consult their wishes by not troubling them with any statement, but simply confine himself to answering any questions which hon. Gentlemen might be pleased to ask him. The Estimate for last year amounted to £803,794, and this year it amounted to £842,119, being an increase over the preceding year of £38,325. Of that increase £13,500 was accounted for as being sums which would be taken for schools that would derive aid for the first time under the Revised Code on the examination of the children who attended them. The rest of the excess was accounted for by an increase consequent on the spread of the system. There was no other item in the Estimate that called for any observation. He had only one remark to make on the general subject, and that had reference to the training colleges. The Government had prepared a corrected syllabus of study for those colleges, by which they had endeavoured to reduce the standard of examination for teachers to a lower scale than the existing one, making it more exclusively practical and professional. He hoped to publish the syllabus before long, and that it might be found acceptable to the House.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he did
 1452
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ire-
 1359
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he wished to know whether it was only at the hours he had named that the police first heard of the crime?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I dare say you did. I am speaking of what took place at the beginning of 1860, and my hon. Friend will see the importance of what I am about to say. The only question raised in this House before the second reading of the Bill for abolishing the paper duty was, whether it was worth while to purchase that benefit by the laying on of an additional penny of income tax. The House of Commons heard that argument, and decided by a large majority in favour of the abolition of the paper duty. Well, I am astonished again that my hon. Friend does not see that after such a vote as that—unless the House of Commons were to lay down principles wholly novel, most dangerous, and, in my opinion, most discreditable in regard to fiscal legislation —it had, by a renewed proceeding, come under a solemn engagement to the country, at least to do this—to take the very first opportunity of extinguishing that duty.
 1400 1401 Cries of 1402 1403
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, my hon. Friend the Member for Stamford gave me notice on a former evening, on his own part and on the part of the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, that it was intended to make comments upon a speech delivered by me at Manchester. It being the common practice that when the conduct or language of a Minister is to be challenged, he should hear the charge before he is called upon to reply, I waited until the Question was put from the Chair before rising to address the House; and as the prediction of the hon. Baronet has been but partially realized — only as regards himself and not as re-
 1386 1387 1388 1389 1390 1391 1392 1393 1394
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I am very much obliged to the right hon. Gentleman. I would much rather see such a Motion merely moved than carried by this side. However, two nights before the financial statement the House of Commons thinks it necessary to introduce a Bill for the repeal of a particular tax, and thereby stigmatize that tax. I am not so presumptuous as to censure the conduct of the House of Commons for so doing. I will only say it is clear that our finances are in a critical state when the representatives of the people come to such a decision on the very eve of the financial statement. The complaints made about taxation also induce me to think it most desirable that at the present time our attention should be given to the expenditure. There is much more in expenditure than is supposed by those who look slightly at it. The expenditure of this country embraces £70,000,000—it embraces not merely the question of maintaining this or that establishment, but it embraces an enormous amount of questions with regard to the maintenance of purposes that we have in view, which are of the utmost importance. I am bound, however to say this, and the speech of my hon. Friend this evening, and the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire on a former occasion, make it more desirable that I should refer to the circumstance—that for the last three years we have been maintaining the national expenditure by the exhaustion of temporary resources. I do not say that these are causes of public danger, but they are causes of public inconvenience, and they are occasions which justify a Chancellor of the Exchequer in warning the House, and the country of the necessity for a cautious diminution of our expenditure. What I lay down is, that it is the duty of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to confer with his colleagues on the expenditure which the moment demands; and he has also the special duty, separate from the other Members of the Government, just as their departmental duties are separate from his, of exhibiting to the country the pro-
 1395 excathedra
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : That is precisely what I stated. My hon. Friend said Sir Robert Peel never proposed to repeal a tax without supplying something more than was necessary to
 1396 1397 d 1398 1399
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether Her Majesty's Government have succeeded in negotiating a fresh Treaty with the Government of the United States for the suppression of the Slave Trade; and if so, whether he in prepared to lay such Treaty upon the table of the House?
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he hoped that as an independent supporter of the Government he might be allowed to state his opinion of the speed made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer at Manchester, in regard to his position as the Minister chiefly responsible for the taxation of the country. He confessed he found it rather difficult to understand why the hon. Baronet objected to the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer; for himself, he must say he thanked the Chancellor of the Exchequer for the speech he had made. It appeared, however, that his objection was not so much to the contents of the speech as to its delivery by a statesman holding the position of Chancellor of the Exchequer; but that argument hardly applied, because the right hon. Gentleman, as steward of the public money, was right in reminding them of the fact, that the expenditure, and chiefly the military expenditure, was greater than the country in time of peace had ever to bear before. The right hon. Gentleman reminded them how much less the expenditure was in 1853, and again he (Mr. Forster) thanked him for the hope which that reference suggested that there might yet be a possibility of approaching, if not arriving at it. But he admitted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer went further than that. He stated, that if there was any reduction of
 1383 1384 1385
 MR. MONSELL  said, he wished to call attention to the fact that the Director of the Museum of Irish Industry in Dublin f was also President of the Queen's College at Cork. As Director of the Museum he received £400 a year, and as Dublin was some hours' distance by railway from Cork, it was difficult to conceive how the same individual could efficiently discharge the duties of the two offices.
 MR. SCHOLEFIELD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether the Government intend to bring in a Bill this Session for an alteration in the Licensing System?
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, it was impossible for Welsh children to acquire any portion of the capitation grant, owing to the difficulty which attended the learning of a new language.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, he rose to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If he intends to introduce any Bill during the present Session of Parliament for extending the jurisdiction, amending the form of procedure, and payment of salaries in lieu of fees of the officers of the Court of Admiralty in Ireland?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, there were, no doubt, strong reasons for some alteration in the licensing system, but he could not say that he should be prepared to introduce a Bill on the subject this Session.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, it was not the intention of the Government to introduce any Bill in the present Session on the subject to which the hon. Baronet had referred.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, in reply, that an inquiry had been instituted into
 1360
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  was understood to reply that whatever steps were found necessary to render the accused persons duly amenable to justice would be taken.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, the suspected persons were arrested on the night succeeding the murder, within a few hours after its commission.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he had no doubt the hon. Member was correct as to the exact distance of the Police Stations from the spot where this foul and cowardly murder was committed. He was able to state that three persons supposed to be implicated in the crime had been arrested, and one of them committed on the charge of murder and sent to the gaol of Clonmel. He was glad to have that opportunity of bearing his testimony to the energy and activity of the constabulary and of the sub-inspector in effecting so speedy an arrest.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  appealed to the hon. Gentleman to postpone the second reading to a future day when it could be taken at an earlier hour.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE : Sir, I find, in consequence of a few words I said the other night when the order of the day was called on, that there has been a sort of expectation in the minds of some hon. Members that it was my intention to make some attack or offer some opposition to the passing of this Bill. I wish, therefore, to explain the circumstances under which I said what I did on that occasion, when this Bill stood as the first order of the day for second reading. The Chancellor of the Exchequer asked me whether I understood that it was likely that any opposition to the passage of the Bill would be made, as he had imagined that it would be unopposed, and he was anxious that it should pass at once. I answered that I understood there was no intention to oppose the passing of the Bill, but that it was a measure on which, probably, some observations would be made, and that I myself intended to make a few observations on it and as, I believe, there were reasons why it was inconvenient for the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the other Ministers to be detained in the House, the Bill was put off but I gave no intimation that I intended to oppose the progress of the Bill. Nothing was further from my intention. At the same time the House will observe that the Bill is one of great importance. It gives the Government taxes to the amount of between £20,000,000 and £25,000,000 sterling. These taxes are of different kinds—the income tax, the tea and sugar duties, and some minor taxes; but all are put together in one Bill. And not only does the Bill thus deal with nearly one-third of the whole revenue of the country, but it grants these taxes to the Crown only for a single year. Now, that is rather remarkable. For the last two or three years it has been the practice to grant large amounts of taxes for a single year; but I doubt whether the House of Commons will be inclined to continue this course of keeping year after year no less than one-third of the whole revenue of the country in what I may call a provisional condition. The course is inconvenient, and the reasons given for it show its inconvenience. The reason which induces the Government to ask for those taxes only for the space of one year is, that they and the House are not entirely satisfied with
 1362 1363 1364 1365 1366 s d 1367 1368 1369 "Now, there are those who tell you that this state of our finance, which I hold forth to you as unhealthy, is owing to the delinquencies of the Government, and almost entirely, perhaps, to the delinquencies of a particular individual." 1370 "There are those who would say, If you had imposed some more taxes, or if you had reduced fewer, we should have been able to show a better state of the account.' Gentlemen, with all the conviction of my mind, and in the broadest sense, I deny that statement. The taxes we have reduced have been taxes in which the receipts of the Exchequer bore no proportion to the burden imposed upon the people. Even if, at the moment, they are not fully replaced, it is our business not to confine our view to the moment. After the lapse of one or two years we know that the result of such measures wisely chosen has ever been to make the Exchequer richer: and also, that in the mean time, their effect is, under a great, weight of taxation, to induce, dispose, and enable the people to bear its pressure." 1371 1372 "The principles were more alarming than even the deficiency itself. …. The Secretary to the Treasury declared, that even if he could have foreseen this deficiency, he should have felt satisfied that a reduction of taxes ought to have been made. His doctrine would not only apply to the present case, but to every tax that could be repealed; and was the right hon. Gentleman ready to assert that, whatever deficiency might occur in the revenue, taxes ought to be repealed? …. The doctrine of the right hon. Gentleman that a tax ought to be repealed because it would be a relief to the people, without reference to the obligations for the fulfilment of which that tax was a security, was a most dangerous doctrine for a Government to act upon or avow. The strongest apprehension that he had entertained from the infusion of democratic power into the House of Commons by the measure of Reform was that the House would hereafter find it very difficult to resist proposals for immediate relief at the expense of good faith and of the true permanent interests of the country…. He was still more astonished at what fell from the Vice President of the Board of Trade. That right hon. Gentleman had a theory perfectly novel. He said that we ought to regard with something like satisfaction the deficiency of £698,000 in the revenue, because it was not in fact money lost, but was in the pockets of the people ready to be extracted on any occasion that might require it. This speculation in finance the right hon. Gentleman designated by a name which would not soon be forgotten, which would, he hoped, ever continue to belong to the right hon. Gentleman without a rival claimant. He called it the' fructifying principle.' Thus, should the Government not have the money to pay the interest of the national debt, the creditor would have no right to complain of his loss, because the money, was 'fructifying' in the pockets of the people. If the right hon. Gentleman could but establish this principle generally, he would stand a chance of being the most popular man in the three kingdoms among that numerous class of the King's subjects the debtors of the country."—[3  Hansard 1373 Decipit exemplar 1374 Hansard 1375 1376 1377 1378 1379 1380 1381 1382
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE : I said Sir Robert Peel never proposed the repeal of a tax without providing a surplus for the end of that year.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  was understood to say, that he opposed the repeal of the paper duty.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  could not allow the question, to be put from the Chair without stating his opposition to the principles contained in the Bill. If his objections had related to matters of detail, he should have reserved his remarks until the Bill was in Committee. He was not inclined to enter into any discussion on the subject of foreign policy, which had taken the House by surprise. But he must say, that whilst he had listened to the admirable speech of the noble Viscount, which was characterized by his usual tone and temper, he could not help alluding to one perversion of the speech which had fallen from his right hon. Friend. The words "bloated armaments" had been used. Now, he did not believe there were ten men in the House who would not say that the armaments of France and England were deserving of that appellation. They were beyond all that common sense justified. His right hon. Friend had attributed the extent of our armaments to necessity, but expressed his belief that it was the policy pursued by the Government which had rendered those bloated armaments, both on the part of England and that of France, a necessity. He (Sir W. Jolliffe) therefore had thought it necessary to notice what he considered a misapprehension on the part of the noble Viscount, What he had risen principally to object to was the policy or principle contained in the Bill, of tampering, as the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed to do, with that
 1446
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, there is no sight more interesting than to behold a gigantic frame which has long been in a state of lethargy suddenly rising into vigour and strength, especially when  lethargicus nec fit pugil 1429 1430 1431 Trent 1432 1433 1434 1435 1436 1437 entente cordiale Trent 1438 1439 Trent 1440
 LORD HOTIIAM  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. M. Gibson), When he intended to proceed with this Bill?
 COLONEL TALBOT  said, that he could not understand why the Admiralty should refuse to concede the just claims of the meritorious officers whose case had been so repeatedly brought before the House. If the question remained as it was at present, it would still continue a bugbear, and the officers would consider that they had not had justice done to them. He wanted to know the reasons on which that justice had been refused. The Admiralty ought to have consulted the law officers upon the question when it was first brought forward; but having at length done so, he did not see why the officers could not be told the reasons why the claim had been refused. If the Motion were pressed to a division, he should certainly support it.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he should not have risen, as he certainly did not intend to take the unprecedented and inconvenient course of entering into a vindication of the opinion given by the law officers of the-Crown. His hon. and learned Friend, however, had rather inconsiderately thrown out an idea that the Government had submitted to the officers of the Crown a garbled statement.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he accepted the explanation, and would state that the course taken by the Government was, to lay before the law officers all the documents which contained the statements of the officers themselves, the Order in Council, and the other papers, upon the proper construction of which their case depended, in order that they might speak for themselves. Whether their opinion was right or wrong, it was formed upon a clear view of the legal meaning of the document on which the retirement was granted.
 MR. COWPER  said, he believed they owed the very eloquent appeal of the hon. Member for Bridport to a certain ambiguity in the word "office." When he (Mr. Cowper) had said that he thought the Record Office was perfect, he of course meant to refer to the public building of which the hon. Member was speaking; and notwithstanding what had been said by the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, he believed the Record repository to be as perfect a building for its purpose as could be erected. No doubt the temporary arrangement by which a number of papers were deposited in hired houses, until the building intended for their reception was provided, was not the most convenient one. It was by no means a new practice to place records in buildings which were not fire-proof. Indeed, the new Record Office, erected by the Government, was the only fire-proof repository of the kind that had been built of late years. Domesday Book and other most interesting records had been kept for centuries at the Chapter-house, Westminster, in a building of which the late Mr. Braidwood said that, owing to the positions of the interior woodwork, fire, if once commenced, would with difficulty be extinguished. The records kept in the hired houses in Chancery Lane and Rolls Yard, although useful, were not of a very valuable character, consisting for the most part of muster-books of old ships, paybooks from the army, logbooks, and the like. The papers before the House, however, showed that plans existed by which the preservation of all these documents would be provided for within no very long space of time. It was said that there was no continuity of management in the office of Public Works, because the head of the department went out with every change of Government. Certainly that remark did not hold good of the proceedings connected with the
 1481 1482
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he begged leave, in reply to the question of the hon. Member for Norfolk (Mr. Bentinck), to explain that, according to the information he had received, the fort which was to be built at Plymouth would be erected upon
 1484
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he considered that those who had the management of the cess were those who paid it, for all taxes of the kind must ultimately fall upon the land. He hoped that the right hon. Baronet would see from the observations of the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken, what was the real nature of the changes asked for.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that as one of the representatives of Lancashire he begged to return his best thanks to the hon. Members for South Lancashire and Carlisle, who had brought the subject before the House, and elicited the satisfactory reply of his right hon. Friend the President of the Poor Law Board. From the information he had taken pains to collect in his district, he believed that very considerable misapprehension existed as to the spirit in which the Poor Law Board were inclined to administer the rules relative to the distribution of outdoor relief. The provision that boards of guardians should report to the Poor Law Board every case in which outdoor relief was given without exacting the labour test, was construed into a prohibition against such relief. The President of the Poor Law Board had, however, stated, that while he did not think it necessary to make any special alteration in the rules of the Board, he should give the amplest liberty to boards of guardians to meet the responsibility which rested upon them. He could not account for the slight diminution which his right hon. Friend said had occurred in some districts in the number of applications for relief. But he trusted that neither he nor the House would imagine that the temporary cessation of distress alluded to was any reason for relaxing the measures which he anticipated would be necessary to meet the impending difficulties, because no man acquainted with the state of the manufacturing districts would venture to predict otherwise than that there was yet great distress to be endured. In the town of Preston the weekly loss of wages to persons engaged in the cotton trade was estimated at £6,291. The relief given, however, only averaged £463. The usual relief at the corresponding period of the year was £130, so that the sum of £333 represented what had been done by the Preston Board of Guardians to meet the withdrawal of a sum of £6,000 heretofore paid in wages. No doubt other causes had been at work to save the poor rates. There had been a relief fund, private charity had been active, and the savings of the operatives had been drawn upon. There had been whispers and suggestions of a public subscription, and a grant from the Consolidated Fund; but not only had no such proposition been entertained by the Lancashire Members, but such an idea had been altogether deprecated. The House had heard the
 1516
 GENERAL LINDSAY  said, that on his own part, and on that of the Board of Guardians and the gentlemen intrusted with the management of the relief fund in the town of Wigan, he wished to say that nothing was further from their thoughts than to apply for a sum of money for the distressed operatives out of the Consolidated Fund, until it should have been proved that the rates and private subscriptions were not adequate to meet the case. The universal feeling in Lancashire was that the poor rate was the first resource, the private subscriptions the next; and that an application for any share of the public funds should only be mode as a last resource. He had given his support to the attempt made to raise a Lancashire fund by Lanca-
 1517
 MR. GILPIN  said, it was new to him that any feeling of humiliation on the part of boards of guardians existed from their having to report the cases in which they dispensed with the labour test, and he believed they were generally satisfied with the law. Returns of pauperism, though they did not adequately represent destitution, were an index of such destitution; and the figures which the returns gave, confirmed the statement of his right hon. Friend. In the eight weeks ending with April of the present year, and commencing with the second week of March, the numbers relieved in the manufacturing districts were, respectively, as follows:—2nd week, 111,000; 3rd, 111,000 4th, 112,000; 5th, 104,000;
 1521
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, that although having no connection with the manufacturing districts, he was anxious to express the strong sympathy he felt for
 1522
 MR. SERJEANT PIGOTT  said, he rose: to call attention to the Laws and Constitution of Jersey. The subject probably had little interest for that House, but it was of momentous interest to the inhabitant of Jersey, and of some importance to persons living in this country who visited that island. The Supreme Court in Jersey was presided over by a bailliff, who was a legal gentleman appointed and partly paid by the Crown, but the business was really transacted by twelve persons, called jurats, who attended at their own pleasure, and who were wholly uneducated for the duties they were called upon to perform. With that court the great portion of the; residents of St. Heliers, the principal; town, were much dissatisfied. A Commission was issued in 1859 to inquire into the constitution of the court, and they had made a Report which brought home to that
 1523
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said after the explanation which they had just heard from the Vice President of the Committee of Council, he was sure the hon. Member for Swansea would admit, at least, the advantage of having in that House a Minister who was responsible for the control of that institution, for the maintenance of which they were called upon to vote public money. Every one must see the utility of having Ministers who were responsible for the several departments of science and art in that House. Of all the Art Institutions of the country, he agreed with the Vice President, it was the South Kensington Museum which partook most of a national character, and that it was with that institution that the idea had originated of circulating works of art through the country. When the unhappy photographer was near setting fire to the British Museum by his apparatus, the managers thought they could do nothing to prevent the recurrence of such an accident; but that was not the case with those who had charge of the Kensington Museum, for they had devised a scheme which enabled them to light the Museum four nights in the week, and the vast majority of those who visited it at night were composed of the working classes. In proof of the good that the institution had done he would conclude by quoting the words of the Committee which sat upon the subject. They said in their Report that they had arrived at the opinion that the South Kensington Museum in respect of its action, as well throughout the United Kingdom as in the metropolis, was exercising a most beneficial influence, and that it was well deserving the continued and liberal support of Parliament.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  said, he also supported the claim of those officers. He would entreat his noble and gallant Friend, in the name of humanity, for the credit of the service and the honour of the country, to reconsider this subject, and to give the officers in question the benefit to which they were entitled.
 MR. A. F. EGERTON  said, he had given notice of his intention to put some questions to the President of the Poor Law Board respecting the working of the Poor Law in the cotton manufacturing districts, Both inside and outside of the House he had heard it stated privately that it was
 1491 1492 Trent 1493 The Times 1494
 MR. C. F. BERKELEY  said, he had filled the office of private secretary to one of the Lords of the Admiralty at the time when the order was issued, and his attention had therefore been naturally directed to the claim of those officers. He did not, however, regard their claims in the light in which they had been presented to the House by other hon. Members. The description of the list was, he admitted, rather unfortunate; but still it was a stereotyped form, and he did not think that any reasonable construction of it could entitle these officers on the retired list to the advantages which were claimed for them. Moreover, it would be unfair to some officers on the active list, if those on the reserved list were dealt with as the hon. and gallant Member for Wakefield had urged. If they looked at the position and prospects of those officers in 1851, before the Order in Council was signed, they would find that most of them were the old war first lieutenants, and he doubted whether, if a return of their sea services as commanders afloat were called for, it would be found that they averaged twelve months' service. Of these ninety-five officers, he thought only twenty-five had served afloat as commanders. Of these twenty-five only fifteen had been in command; the other ten served as commanders in line-of-battle ships, principally flagships in harbour or guardships of the ordinary; forty-five had served in the Coastguard or in
 1473 s s s d s d
 GENERAL UPTON  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether the present force of Police Constabulary in Ireland will be sufficient for the purpose of Registering Births and Deaths under the contemplated measure of the Government?
 MR. W. EGERTON  said, that he too could not help expressing his admiration of the patience with which the distressed operatives of the northern counties had endured their privations, though that was not altogether a novel circumstance, for the same spirit had been displayed in former visitations of the same kind, when they had suffered from glutted markets, from over-production, or from unfortunate differences between employers and employed. He was also happy to say that there was co-operation between the masters and the operatives, and that many of the former had at great loss to themselves kept their mills at full work. He had listened with much pleasure to the statement of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Poor Law Board. It would be very satisfactory to the operatives in the manufacturing districts, among whom, as shown by meetings recently held at Manchester, there was beginning to be some dissatisfaction with the working of the Poor Law. He trusted that the discussion generally would prove to the operatives of Lancashire and Yorkshire that the House of Commons sympathized with them in their distress, and were no indifferent spectators of the noble patience and endurance with which they had borne their sufferings, and that the Government were not unmindful of their duty to see that the working classes obtained a fair share of relief in time of distress.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that the subject had so often been discussed in the House that he felt he need not then enter into its various details. He had, however, to make a statement which would, he believed, for ever set the question at rest. In consequence of the many opinions expressed as to the claims of the captains of the reserved list, his noble Friend the Duke of Somerset had referred their case to the law officers of the Crown. The law officers had gone very carefully into the whole merits of the case; they had done so in deference to opinions that had been expressed by other high legal authorities, who had given a verdict in favour of the claims of the officers of the reserved list. It was not usual, as the House was aware, to give publicity to the confidential opinions of the law officers of the Crown; he would not therefore read any portions of that opinion, except one short sentence. It stated—
 "In our opinion, the Board of Admiralty have taken a correct view of the position and rights of the commanders promoted to be captains on the reserved list, and such officers are not to be regarded as officers on the active list, so as to be capable of rising to the higher scale of half-pay, provided under the Order of Council of 1851." 1474 s s d rèsumè 1475
 LORD HOTHAM  said, that he understood the right hon. Gentleman to state last night that he would inform the House this evening when he would bring the Bill forward, but he had not the slightest idea that it would come before the House that evening. He acted under that impression, and communicated with some Members of the House, who were absent in consequence of his statement.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  observed, that it would be extremely unfortunate for the officers themselves if the Motion was, under the circumstances, pressed to a division. He hoped the Motion would be withdrawn, and it would be then competent to the hon. and gallant Gentleman to call the attention of the Government and the House to the question in some other form.
 MR. BLACK  said, he believed that the establishment of these schools of design led to great abuse, as many persons who sent their children to them had ample means of giving them a private education in any accomplishment they might think proper. The efforts of private teachers were thus discouraged, and the interference of the Government was productive of real evil.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he would second the Motion. On the two occasions last year when he brought the question under the notice of the House, the Secretary to the Admiralty opposed him; but he hoped that the noble Lord would be inclined now to take another view of the matter. It was a case simply of justice, and it was not well that impressions should get abroad that officers had been led to make an arrangement prejudicial to their interests upon a statement of the Admiralty which was liable to misconstruction.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he rose to call attention to the state of the Record Office. A very erroneous impression had been conveyed by certain statements in a recent debate on the subject. Hon, Members had been led to believe that
 1478 1479
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, be wished to call the attention of the Committee to the great increase which had of late years taken place in the amount of that Vote. In 1847 it was £8,000, and it had risen to £116,000 a year. He believed it would be better to leave the encouragement of science and art to private enterprise, instead of placing them under the patronage of the Government. As an instance, the Crystal Palace was infinitely better than the new Exhibition building.
 MR. LAYARD : I fear, Sir, I can give no other answer to my hon. Friend than this, that, so far as Her Majesty's Government is informed, M. Mercier went to Richmond without any instruction whatever from his own Government. I may add, however, that his visit has been attended by no political results whatever.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he thought that the directorship of the Museum of Irish Industry, on its becoming vacant, should not be filled up again; and that the Museum of Irish Industry should, as soon as possible, be made one institution with the Royal Dublin Society. Originally the Irish Museum was instituted as a boon to the Roman Catholics, but the present Director, Sir Robert Kane, was also Principal of the Queen's College at Cork. When he was performing his duties at Dublin, he was necessarily neglecting his duties at Cork, and  vice versâ
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS (who was very indistinctly heard)  said, he hoped neither the hon. Member for South Lancashire nor the hon. Member for Carlisle imagined that the extent of the suffering which was now being endured in the manufacturing districts in the north had escaped his attention, or that he had neglected to inform himself on the subject. Nobody, he could assure the House, could be more painfully alive than he was to the extent of that suffering, nor was he without daily evidence of its magnitude. There was hardly a circumstance mentioned by the hon. Gentleman which he could not confirm by his own experience, both as to the extent of the suffering and the generous and noble manner in which it was borne.
 1497 1498 1499 1500 1501 1502 1503 1504 s d s d s d s d s s s s 1505 "It appeared to me that we are in the Burnley Union in the midst of a general scramble for the rates, which, if order be not introduced immediately into their administration, will before long reduce the ratepayers to insolvency, without, at the same time, leaving the conviction on any man's mind that the indefinite pauperism which had created such a lamentable result had been real to the extent asserted, or that those severe privations which too certainly do prevail, and are, indeed, painfully notorious, have been sufficiently alleviated. On the next day the board of guardians unanimously agreed that I should prepare, with the full concurrence of those present, a
 1506
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, it would perhaps be well for him to answer at once the question put to him by the hon. Gentleman as to the import duties levied in India, before the discussion on the distress in Lancashire was entered upon. He had not the slightest doubt that the reduction of duty to which the hon. Gentleman had referred as having been announced in the newspapers had taken place, although he had not as yet received a despatch from India announcing the fact. He knew it was the intention of the Indian Government to reduce the duty as soon as the state of that country permitted them to do so.
 MR. POTTER  said, he desired, with the permission of the House, to give briefly his opinion as to the extent of the trade of the cotton districts and of the distress now prevailing in those districts. There were no less than 600,000 persons employed in the cotton manufacture, who received between £15,000,000 and £16,000,000 a year in wages when they were in full work, but who at this moment were receiving not more than half that amount. The hon. Member had stated the number of persons who were receiving no wages at all at 58,000; but he believed, if the facts were known, that the number would be found to be something like 100,000. These facts must carry conviction to the minds of all as to the amazing amount of distress that existed. But it was not only
 1495 1496
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he wished to call attention to a subject which he had already brought before the House on a former evening. It appeared that a fort was about to be constructed in Plymouth Sound, upon an artificial island inside the breakwater. He thought that, even if the fort were necessary, the site was injudiciously chosen, and the fort ought rather to be
 1483
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, he wished to know why the Record Office had not been proceeded with? In 1850 an estimate was given in, and the building, which was a very ugly one, was commenced. One wing was erected, but owing to the Crimean war the building had never been completed. During that war a portion of the War Office, containing records, was wanted for other purposes, and the records were sent to the present Master of the Rolls for custody. Thus he received 160 tons from the War Office; and lately he had thrown on his hands, to save them from the Victoria Tower, the documents which were formerly in the State Paper Office. No proper accommodation, however, was available for the preservation of the valuable historical documents of the country; and if any accident occurred, the loss would be irreparable. The Master of the Rolls had done more than any of his predecessors for the purpose of securing their safe custody and making them properly accessible to the public. He did not think a due tribute of acknowledgment had been paid to him in that respect. It was well known that shortly after he entered on his office he had commenced a series of calendars of historical documents in his custody. These were now being printed. The records were arranged in an admirable manner, and rendered perfectly accessible to searchers, vast numbers of whom consulted them. During the last year there had been no fewer than 12,435 searches for historical documents, and for these no fees were charged. There was only one room in which the literary searchers could be accommodated, and that was only eighteen feet by twelve feet. It might fairly be supposed that the building was so had that the Government were ashamed to go on with it. If a picture of it were produced, he did not think the House would approve it. He
 1480
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he would remind the right hon. Gentleman that there had been two Royal Commissions—one as far back as sixteen years ago. The result of the inquiries showed that it was impossible to obtain justice under existing circumstances in Jersey, property consequently nearly lost its value, and persons charged with crimes were left untried for long periods. Nothing, however, had been done in consequence, and he had no hopes of anything being done by the States of Jersey from what had been stated by the right hon. Gentleman.
 MAJOR EDWARDS  would entreat the noble Lord, the Secretary to the Admiralty, to reconsider the vote which he had given on the last occasion that this subject was brought forward, and do justice to these unfortunate officers. As a civilian he felt some diffidence in saying anything on that which might be considered purely a naval question; and as it had on so many previous occasions been brought under the consideration of the House, and rejected by such trifling majorities, it was quite unnecessary for him to go into its merits. It was simply a question of justice or injustice to a hundred naval officers, who had served their country well in the hour of her need, and who had accepted the commissions which they now held with the full impression that they should lose nothing, either in pay or promotion; in fact, that they would rise by seniority to the flag. The commissions of these hundred Captains on the reserved list were identical with those on the active list, and in the majority of instances their rank has been conferred for very distinguished services in time of war. The only way in which they differed from the post-captains on the active list was their non-liability to be called upon to serve afloat, except under extraordinary circumstances—threatened invasion, &c. A precisely analogous case to this had taken place in the army. Two years ago, the hon. and gallant Member for Wigan had moved for a Committee to inquire into the question of pay of a number of officers of the army, who, hav-
 1472
 MR. H. SEYMOUR  objected to so many Votes being placed together under one head; nine Votes were included in the total sum asked for. In it art, science, and navigation were amalgamated; and he thought that art and science must feel some surprise at the strange company in which they were thus placed. He believed the Government schools of art throughout the kingdom were to a great extent valueless, and that they entailed an expense very much disproportioned to any advantage they conferred. The schools at South Kensington were frequented by the most fashionable young ladies in London,
 1529
 MR. BLAKE  rose, pursuant to notice, to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland
 1485 1486 "Does it appear to you that it would be desirable that the landlords, in the first instance, should pay those rates?—We are agents to an estate in the county of Dublin where the landlord pays the whole of the county cess, and charges no part to the tenant; and I have for a considerable time held the opinion that the landlord ought to pay all the local charges on the land. Several years ago I published a letter on the subject. I should think in Longford the rate amounts to nearly 2 s "Is it your opinion that it would be for the benefit of the landed proprietors to take upon themselves the payment of the taxes and charges upon the land?—I think it would be for the benefit of the landed proprietors that the tenants should be relieved from demands by other parties, particularly from the county cess, which presses upon them at a season when they are not able to pay it. "Does it appear to you that the principle adopted as to the poor rate would be applicable to county charges, dividing the amount between the landlord and tenant?—It may be, but I doubt whether the mode adopted is desirable, the tenant paying in the first instance, and getting an allowance afterwards, and it is open to the objection I have already suggested, that the tenant ought to be relieved as much as possible from different demands upon him at different seasons of the year
 1487 "In what manner would you propose to check the amount of the county rates if the landlords were liable to pay, and not the tenants?—The landlords and agents generally are the persons who lay on the assessment, as members of the grand juries. "Would you continue the present system of associating the ratepayers with the magistrates?—I think the grand jury laws are capable of very great improvement in that respect; at the same time, I would be inclined to give the ratepayers a voice in the expenditure of the public money." "I am of opinion that if more than a partial remedy is to be applied—if a radical change is to be made in the system, it should be to do away altogether with grand juries for all purposes but the criminal business of the county, and to invest the Poor Law boards of guardians—representing as they do all the real and fairly taxable property within their several distriots—with all the fiscal powers hitherto exercised by grand juries, subject, of course, to such regulations as would prevent these new duties from interfering with the fulfilment of the primary objects of this institution. Dispensaries, fever hospitals, roads, and all other local public works, it is especially desirable should be placed under representative control, both for the sake of better efficiency, and in order to create that responsibility towards the payers of rates to which they are fairly entitled." "Every attempt to improve the fiscal laws which govern grand juries has failed, and this because the system is itself vicious, and incapable of producing good. …I think that no power of raising and expending money should ever be intrusted to an irresponsible body, and least of all to grand juries. I would strongly advise that the whole machinery should be abolished, and an entire new system be resorted to. Surely, the great duration of the grand jury system, the numberless attempts to improve it, and the necessity for present inquiry are, or ought to be, more than enough to condemn it. I have spoken of it as the worst of irresponsible bodies for the purpose of levying and expending public money; and a long and attentive experience has justified me in doing so." "Have you any suggestions you wish to lay before the Commissioners?—No; only that I would strongly recommend that half of the county rate should be placed upon the landlord; and the reason why I say so is this, that the lords of the soil, who generally compose the grand juries, would look, I think, with more attention, and a greater degree of surveillance, to the disposition
 1488 "I think it fair that a portion of the rate should be paid by the landlord, and for this reason, that the landlord has the power, as a grand juror, of imposing the rate for the purpose of effecting improvements, now that the rate is entirely paid by the tenant, although the tenant derives benefit from the improvements only during his lease. When his lease expires, the landlord comes in for the entire benefit of that tax which he had imposed himself upon the tenant." "The intent of the Legislature in establishing presentment sessions seems to have been to give to the ratepayers such a representation thereat as would enable them to prevent improper or improvident presentments; but the law is not effectual for its purpose. Magistrates may, and, when a particular object is to be carried, not unfrequently do, attend the presentment sessions of baronies where they have no property, and outvote those who have. Then, as to the associated ratepayers, they are not chosen by the ratepayers at large, but are taken by lot from the reduced lists made by the grand jury in the way already described. They are therefore nominees, not of the class they are to represent, but of the class they are to control. The lot, too, may fall upon the most unfit, which is, of itself, a serious fault in the system; and, the uncertainty in which the ratepayers named by the grand jury are left until the day of the presentment sessions, as to the particular individuals who may be drawn to serve, is obviously calculated to prevent a regular attendance. (Signed) "J. BLAKE, Chief Remembrancer. "JOHN YOUNG, Bart. "BARON GREENE. "WILLIAM SOMERVILLE, Bart. "JOHN L. O'FERRALL." The Committee of 1830.—This Committee, and previous Parliamentary Committees, recommended that in all future leases the whole or a part of all grand jury assessments be placed on the landlord. Committee of 1844.—This Committee on the townland valuation recommend that county cess and poor rate should be collected together, and that all tenants should have the power of deducting a portion of the county rate as under the poor law. Devon Commission, 1845.—Recommend that the cost of certain public works in counties be borne by the proprietors, and the support of charitable institutions be transferred to the poor laws. Committee of 1836—Commission of 1840—Devon Commission, 1845.—All these recommend the office of clerk of the crown and peace to be united; those of 1840 and 1845, that the office of
 1489 de novo 1490
 MR. BRIGHT : I think it was very natural that the hon. Member for South. Lancashire should have brought this question before the House, and am sure that only express the general feeling when say that the manner in which he did it was befitting the object he had in view. He being connected with the county—and many other Members of the House also connected with it—must know, that although there is great and growing distress, vet that it is not so universal as many persons at a distance might suppose; and that it is very much more severe in some towns than in others. And this arises, as the House might imagine, on the smallest consideration, from the very different kind of work which is performed, and the different branches of trade which are carried on in the different towns. For instance, in Bolton, where the spinning is almost all of fine yarn, and where only a comparatively small portion of cotton is used, the dis-
 1507 1508 1509 1510 1511 1512 d s d d s 1513 s d s The Biglow Papers "On the occurrence of general distress, we find them neither a pauperized mass, nor readily admitting pauperism among them; but struggling against adversity, beating far and wide for employment, and in many cases leaving their country for foreign climates, rather than depend upon any other resources for subsistence than those of their own industry and skill. Those among them who have not been able or willing to leave a place where at present their labour is of little or no value, have been found enduring distress with patience, and abstaining sometimes to the injury of health from making any application for relief; while others, who have been driven reluctantly to
 1514
 MR. HENNESSY  said, there was no institution in Ireland of more practical value than the Museum of Irish Industry, which, without explanation or consideration, had been so rashly condemned by the Vice President of the Education Committee. The object of the Museum was to develop the industrial resources of Ire land, and it had fulfilled its mission with remarkable success under the able directorship of Sir Robert Kane. It was to be regretted that Ireland was governed by a body of gentlemen who knew nothing whatever about it, and who were ready at any moment to sweep away its most useful institutions. There were two similar institutions in London, which cost a much larger sum, and he hoped the noble Lord
 1528
 MR. LOCKE  said, he was not present when the right hon. Gentleman made his statement, but he was under the impression from what he read that the noble Lord (Lord Hotham) was correct.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, that the subject had excited great interest in Ireland. There had been several county meetings held; and the proposals made at those meetings, at which all classes were represented, showed that a measure of the nature shadowed forth by the answer of the right hon. Baronet would not be satisfactory. The question was, why should county cess be borne by one class, and the rate for the relief of the poor be divided between two classes? For his own part he would rather wait ten years than accept a peddling and contemptible measure like that shadowed forth by the right hon. Baronet.
 MR. VANCE  admitted that there ought not to be two Museums in Dublin. He thought that the Royal Society effected ten times as much for science and art in Ireland as the other institutions.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, that while disclaiming anything like hostility to the South Kensington Museum, he could not but express a doubt as to the propriety of voting the public money for its support. It was not the duty of the Government to give high art education to those who could afford to obtain it for themselves without assistance. He did not think that the recent progress in art had arisen from votes such as that under consideration. But, in some respects, he doubted the existence of progress at all. The Trafalgar fountains, the Duke of Wellington's funeral car, the Guards' monument in Waterloo Place, and the Exhibition building, were not instances in favour of Government teaching in art. The improvement of art as illustrated in our manufactures he attributed, not to Governmental instruction, but rather to the influence of the railway system, the freer intercourse between nation and nation which, as a consequence prevailed, and the existence of such exhibitions as the present and that of 1851. Under those circumstances, he felt disposed to ask the House to reduce the Vote to the amount at which it stood last year, and thus mark its sense of the small value which it set on Government interference, while vested interests were left untouched. On all the items of the Vote that were increased over the sum voted last year he proposed to move a reduction to the amount of the excess. All he wished to do was to lay down a principle. Those who objected to the Government becoming a teacher of drawing throughout the country would support him. He moved that the Vote be reduced by £7,106.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, that the salaries of Gentlemen in other departments had not increased in the same ratio as those of the officers of the Kensington Museum, and he did not see that the latter were more deserving of increased salaries than those who belonged to other departments.
 MR. O'BRIEN  said, he hoped that the Museum of Irish Industry would be maintained as a separate institution, and not amalgamated with the Dublin Society, which was a private association. He thought Government should have ascertained the feelings of the Irish Members before expressing an opinion upon the subject.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he thought it was high time that some check should be put upon the constantly increasing ex-
 1530
 MR. MALINS : I said nothing of the kind. What I said was, that there might have been the omission of facts which the officers themselves would have wished to have stated.
 MR. MALINS  said, the subject was in an unsatisfactory position, and it had
 1476
 MR. LOWE  observed, that it had been the opinion of that House that the manufactures of the country, though possessing many admirable and durable qualities, were deficient in grace and elegance. That led to the institution of the department now under consideration, and there was no doubt that it had answered the object in view. Specimens in various manufactures now to be seen in the Great Exhibition, and remarkable for their beauty, were the work of persons educated in the Department of Science and Art. A complaint had been made that the Estimate was continually increasing. That was the very merit of it. When the Department was founded 8,000 pupils were learning under the system at £3 5 s d s d 1531
 MR. LOWE  said, there was great jus-
 1527
 MR. COLLINS  said, he was of opinion, that after what had fallen from the hon. and learned Solicitor General, the Motion should be withdrawn; but he thought the matter was one which ought to be inquired into by a Select Committee.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that he had communicated with the noble Lord at the head of the Government, and the arrangement which he mentioned was decided on. However, under the circumstances, he would not bring the measure forward that evening.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  in reply said, that it was arranged that the Committee of Supply that evening should not go beyond ten or half-past ten o'clock, when he would proceed with the Merchant Shipping Acts Amendment Bill.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  feared they were going back to the old bad habit of jumping from one subject to another on Friday nights. There were sixteen different questions on the paper that night upon the question of going into Committee of Supply, and four others in Committee. He thought it would be better when one hare was started to follow it up until it escaped or was killed. He intended to speak only upon three of the questions that had been mooted that evening. The first was with respect to grand jury reform in Ireland, respecting which the Chief Secretary had said nothing at all, notwithstanding the hon. Member for Waterford had expressed his conviction that he would receive a satisfactory and straightforward reply, He hoped the question would again be put on Monday; and if it were not satisfactorily replied to, that it would be asked again on Tuesday. Then, a question had been asked with respect to the Royal Court of Jersey. He had inquired into the subject with great interest, and before he entered Parliament he had the audacity to publish a pamphlet—he believed it had long been
 1526
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would move for leave to bring in a Bill to enable the Trustees of the British Museum to remove portions of their Collections. The object of the Bill was to enable the Trustees to remove certain of their collections to South Kensington. The Bill also contained provisions with regard to certain outlying parts of collections which were not strictly contained in those collections themselves. He hoped the print of the Bill would be in hon. Members' hands in a few days.
 MR. COGAN  said, he thought that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Adderley) had acted with some injustice in attacking an absent Gentleman, Sir Robert Kane. The Museum of Irish Industry was founded by Sir Robert himself, who was a man of high scientific attainments, and by developing its resources he had been of great service to Ireland. It was to be regretted that there was nobody connected with Ireland on the Treasury Bench to explain the objects of so useful an institution. He might add that at the formation of the Queen's Colleges there had been great difficulty in obtaining officers for them, and it was at the earnest solicitation of the Government that Sir Robert had accepted the principalship.
 COLONEL SYKES  would support the Vote, as the South Kensington Museum was the most instructive building in the country.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, before answering the hon. and learned Gentleman's question I am anxious to take this opportunity, of which the strict form of the House might otherwise have deprived me, to say a few words with reference to the subject which has been under discussion for the last two or three hours. I think that the office which hold and the means of information it places at my disposal render it a duty incumbent on me, which I have great satisfaction in performing, to bear my testimony to the admirable conduct of that great body of the working classes in a large portion of Lancashire and in some part of Cheshire in enduring that distress which they have long been suffering, are still suffering, and, I fear, will be called upon for some time longer to suffer. I think they have shown not only great patience and fortitude in enduring the distress which has pressed so severely upon them, but also the greatest good sense and the best judgment in appreciating the causes of their calamity. And, knowing well its causes, they have exhibited forbearance, wisdom, and right feeling in
 1524 1525
 SIR JAMES DUKE  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether he can afford any information of the object of the French Minister proceeding from Washington to Richmond?
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he wished to ask, whether the opinion of the Lord Chancellor had been taken on the point, because he believed that the opinion of that high functionary was wholly opposed to that of the Solicitor General. The officers, who had been unjustly treated, were officers who had seen more service than any officers had seen since the peace of 1815. He thought it disgraceful that the Government should refuse the paltry sum that was claimed.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he would withdraw the Motion. At the same time, he wished to announce his intention of moving for a Committee on the subject.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, To lay upon the table of the House a copy of the form of commission promoting the first-named ninety officers on the reserved list of Her Majesty's Navy to the rank of captain; and also a copy of the form of commission promoting the last two officers on that list to the rank of captain, with any explanation there may have been for the necessity of changing the form of commission; also a return of the names and pay or other emoluments of the first sixteen captains on the reserved list; and to move that the case of the reserved captains be referred to the law officers of the Crown? His reason for asking for the production of these papers was, that in 1851, the retired list of the nary being overcrowded, and a great difficulty experienced in promoting younger officers to the rank of captain, the then First Lord of the Admiralty (Sir Francis Baring) framed a new reserved list and persuaded certain officers of old and distinguished service to accept that promotion. There would have been no difficulty in placing those officers on the retired list of captains if they had been inclined to go there, and there would have been no difficulty in promoting such officers; but they were of too great an age for the country to expect much benefit from their services, although at the same time they were entitled to claim promotion from their long and faithful service. An Order in Council was issued which
 1470 s s s s s d
 MR. HIBBERT  said, that as he had just come from the suffering district in question, having only taken his seat on the previous night, he should be wanting in his duty to his constituents and himself if he did not offer a few observations on the subject before the House. The feeling among his constituents and in Lancashire generally was that the distress was neither caused by the Government, nor by the Legislature, nor by the employers of labour, but that it arose entirely from the unfortunate war in America. On that account the distress was borne with great patience and exemplary fortitude. It was felt, however, that the time had come when the Poor Law Board might well suspend their labour test, which interfered with the proper distribution of relief. He was sorry to hear that the right hon. Gentleman did not intend to suspend that test, the effect of which was that the guardians of the poor could not give outdoor relief without requiring a certain amount of labour to be performed, or if they did not require it, they were obliged to report the cases to the Poor Law Board. It was humiliating to boards of guardians to be obliged to report every case in which they gave outdoor relief to the able-bodied poor, and that restriction ought not to be imposed upon them when the distress, as at present, was of no common kind. It was calculated that there were upwards of 60,000 workpeople out of employment, and about 200,000 working from two to four days a week. He trusted that the right hon. Gentleman would reconsider his decision as to the labour test, and rely upon the boards of guardians properly performing their duties, and upon the people not seeking relief except when they actually required it. The operatives would then thank the Government for the sympathy which they had shown them in their present distress.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he considered that the noble Duke at the head of the Admiralty had taken a very proper course in submitting the matter to the law officers. The fact was, the claim depended entirely upon the construction of the Order in Council. He had always considered that order very doubtful in respect to its wording, and he should have been prepared to have voted for the Motion had it not been for the statement of the Government that the matter had been submitted to the law officers, and they had decided that the proper construction of the Order in Council operated against the claims of the officers in question. He quite agreed that it was contrary to the practice of the House to call upon the Government to produce the opinions of their law officers, which were private and confidential documents; and, indeed, he could easily conceive that such a course would be highly inconvenient. Under these circumstances, therefore, and however sorry he might be for the individuals who suffered by it, he thought his hon. and gallant Friend must arrive at the conclusion that he had done all he could for them, and that the matter must be allowed to rest.
 MR. KNIGHTLEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, If he has any objection to submit to Her Majesty whether it would not be desirable to make some alterations in the dress at present worn by deputy-lieutenants, and to point out the incongruous nature of the costume? Very few persons had availed themselves of it at the opening of the International Exhibition. The tight coatee, the gigantic epaulet, and the stiff collar, had been abolished in the army, and he did not see why deputy-lieutenants should be required to wear all those disfigurements, with the addition of a cocked hat with a parti-coloured plume. There was a suspicion that the dress was somewhat ridiculous—there could be no doubt that it was very uncomfortable. He would recommend the adoption of the tunic as more sightly and convenient. Perhaps the only argument in favour of the retention of the existing suit was that some gentlemen might not like the expense of new uniforms
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that he was not prepared to enter into a discussion of the grand jury laws. As had been observed, two or three Attorney Generals had failed to make satisfactory progress with measures they had introduced; and he did not think that at the present stage of the Session it would be desirable to introduce a Bill making any considerable changes in the action of the grand jury laws. In the case of the associated cess-payers, there might not be all the freedom of action that was to be desired; and he would be glad to introduce a Bill, perhaps next Session, if he held office, and would give the subject careful attention during the recess. He was not aware that the Irish generally desired to see any serious change made.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : The present Constabulary Force, I apprehend, will be perfectly adequate to carry out the provisions of the Bill.
 MR. BAZLEY  said, he also desired to add his testimony to the good conduct and
 1518 1519 1520
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  in reply said, he believed the question of the hon. and gallant Gentleman referred to two ordinances which had recently been passed by the Commissioners of the Scotch Universities, and which were at present awaiting the assent of the Privy Council. But as the Government were in no way responsible for those ordinances, and as they had been passed under powers vested in the Commissioners by an Act of Parliament, while there were recognised modes of bringing them under the notice of the Privy Council, he did not think it right that he should then enter into any consideration of their merits. He had to state, however, that the revision of the Class Fees in the University of Aberdeen, and the regulations with regard to bursaries, had proceeded in a great degree on the recommendations of the Royal Commissioners who had inquired into those subjects in the year 1826, and the result had been not to increase, but rather to diminish, the expense of passing through the University. He believed also that the Commissioners had not come to any conclusion without previous communication with the authorities of the University.
 MR. COWPER  said, he was aware that Park Lane was too narrow for the traffic which it was at present required to accommodate. But the proper remedy for that inconvenience would be to widen Park Lane, or else to give an outlet towards the north from Hamilton Place. He was afraid, however, that if the traffic
 1558
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that the Government had taken a Vote for the creation of Soldiers' Institutes without stating at what particular places they were to be established. He should be prepared to appropriate a portion of the sum towards providing an Institute at Portsmouth, but its precise site had not yet been determined on.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, that the right hon. Baronet had not given any answer to the question, which had reference to a subject of very great importance. The question of the hon. Member for Tipperary was not directed as to whether any person
 1559
 MR. PEEL  said, in reply, that the first question of the noble Lord referred to the expenditure of the year 1860–1. The money had been advanced by the Treasury, and it was afterwards paid out of a Vote passed by that House in the course of the last Session. These were sums that were urgently required, and which it was necessary to pay before the expenditure had been sanctioned by Parliament. In answer to the second question of the noble Lord, he had to state that the money for the Chapel at Paris was paid out of the Civil Contingency Fund. When the Vote was refused by the House, it became necessary to sell the Chapel, and the proceeds of the sale were applied in payment of the advance made by the Government; but the sum so realized was less by £2,000 than the amount of that advance.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he had intended to call attention to the operation of the Excise Act with regard to private houses; but there was an idea abroad that the right hon. Gentleman meant to get rid of the difficulty in another way, and he would like to know what was the fact, as it would probably save him the trouble of making any remarks on the clause. He wished to know how the Bill would affect the opera-
 1574
 THE CHAIRMAN,  interrupting the hon. Member, said, that this Bill did not deal with the malt tax, and the clause now before the Committee referred to a specific tax on beer.
 MR. PACKE  thought that the licence ought to be granted by two magistrates instead of one.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the question raised was a curious one, and had been discussed in a curious way. It had been discussed as though it was not well known that beer was sold now at these places. But people did not assemble at cricket-matches and wakes and fairs without having beer. Make what laws they pleased, the people would have beer. The great thing they had to do was to prevent their having it
 1580 s
 MR. LESLIE  trusted the clause would not be extended to Scotland. The clause in the Scotch Bill answered every purpose.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER observed,  that the hon. Member seemed to forget that the whole of the law regulating public-houses in Scotland was different to that of England. He had no objection to the Amendment.
 THE CHAIRMAN  interposed and said, that as the Motion of the hon. Baronet involved a grant of public money, in the absence of any recommendation of the Crown to that effect it could not be entertained by the Committee.
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, that there seemed to be a general system of sending surcharges right and left throughout the country without consideration. The people generally strongly objected to the mode of appeal prescribed. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had acted in a very singular manner with regard to the income tax. He had squeezed five quarters into the year, and thus kept the applications for income tax perpetually before them, he believed that nothing would tend more to the extinction of this abominable tax than this petty mode of collecting it. He hoped the public would continue to state their grievances. With regard to the Return from North Northamptonshire, it was strikingly to the point, and set forth complaints which demanded immediate attention. The petitioners complained of the various methods resorted to for surcharging them, by which agricultural tenants were made to pay on a much higher sum than they actually paid for rent; and they had been vexed and harassed, and put to every conceivable expense and trouble.
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, that no general charge had been made against the surveyors.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he could confirm what had been said by other hon. Members by what had come within his own experience last autumn, and which convinced him, that if assessments were made every
 1597
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGEBY  said, the grievance he complained of was that a number of persons were summoned—poor cottagers and others—they were dragged from their homes several miles, and then their cases were not decided. Instructions should be given by the Inland Revenue Department that no more persons should be summoned than could have their grievances heard. He was sure, with regard to this tax, that the country would ultimately come to the position they were in
 1598
 MR. HENLEY  observed, that the hon. Baronet was not correct in speaking of persons being summoned; they were amerced, and notice was given that upon a certain day they could appeal, and no possible skill could enable either the Commissioners or surveyors to know how many would avail themselves of the right.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  asked the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether the Cupola Shield, on board the  Trusty 1561
 MR. W. E. DUNCOMBE  said, that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer was very fond of taunting hon. Gentlemen on the Conservative side of the House with the success of the French commercial treaty, which he seemed to regard as the panacea for all our financial evils. Now, he (Mr. Duncombe) quite admitted that anything which tended to strengthen our commercial relations with France must be of a beneficial character to both countries:—what he objected to was, the mode in which that treaty was effected and the time it was carried out. He objected altogether to the principle of making the financial arrangements of this country depend upon a treaty with a foreign country, combining our budget with a French commercial treaty, and mixing up direct and indirect taxation. That was a most objectionable principle; and when the right hon. Gentleman said that it had conferred benefits upon the country, he was rather exaggerating his case. He doubted if the treaty had conferred much benefit on the working classes. The chief articles which had been exported to France in consequence of that treaty were coal and iron, and it was obvious to every one who had any knowledge of the subject that neither the coal nor the iron trade of this country was in a depressed state be fore that treaty was made; whereas, on the other hand, the articles which had been imported from France were not articles which were largely consumed by the working classes of this country. Another thing worthy of remark was, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would never have been able to have effected that treaty if he had not been guilty of a public injustice and a great political inconsistency. The income tax, the House would remember, was, according to the right hon. Gentleman's own showing, to be taken off in the year 1860; but when the time arrived for its total abrogation the right hon. Gentleman actually doubled it, the secret being that it was necessary to do so in order to provide for the gaps made in the revenue in consequence of the Anglo-French treaty. Then, again, the right hon. Gentleman
 1566 s 1567
 MR. W. E. DUNCOMBE  explained that he had said that he thought an expenditure of £70,000,000 too high.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  replied, that the Admiralty had been in communication with Captain Coles with a view of preparing the shield, as far as possible, according to Captain Coles's own wishes?
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he now wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether in the Return No. 202,
 1560
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury the following Questions respecting the Account for Civil Contingencies:— Whether the Item "for Votes proposed to be taken for New Services" refers to money spent for objects for which the sanction of Parliament had not already been obtained; and whether the "Net Loss on the sale of a Chapel in Paris" of £2,000, is the difference between the purchase money which had been paid without the sanction of Parliament and the sum obtained by sale when that Vote had been disallowed; and if so, whether the sum of £2,000 thus disallowed should be charged on the Fund for Civil Contingencies?
 MR. AYRTON  observed, that the clause sanctioned the sale of liquors not merely beyond the regular hours, but in any place whatsoever within the district.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he was glad to find that some alteration was to be made in the direction now proposed. He thought the Chancellor of the Exchequer would have done well to have embodied in this measure the clause introduced last Wednesday into the Public-houses Bill for Scotland. The clause to which he referred had reference to occasional licences, and provided that the consent of two justices of the peace, having jurisdiction in the district where the licence was to be granted, should be obtained before any such licence should be issued by the Excise, and that the whole bench of magistrates should have power to make regulations for the sale of liquors under such licences. By adopting this clause they would secure the advantage of assimilating the law for England and Scotland. The Act of last Session repealed the former Acts, that allowed only beer to be sold at fairs and races; and the sale of all excisable liquors was now permitted. This tended to make every public assembly a place of debauchery. Instead of enlarging the permission for the sale of liquors, it ought to be brought under the control of the law, as in Scotland. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman would accept the clause as framed for the Scotch Bill.
 MR. STEUART  hoped the Committee would not sanction the principle of applying one law to one part of the kingdom and another to the rest.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he would recommend his hon. Friend not to pay too much attention to telegrams from Ragusa, unless he wished to judge of them in a non-natural sense. So far from the Turks being defeated, he believed, as far as the Government had received information, that they had been successful in their operations. There was no doubt that they had sustained some losses, and, through treachery, a party of Turkish irregulars had been seized by the Montenegrins. He might add that the Turkish Government were acting with great moderation, although exposed to great provocation. He did not know who sent those telegrams, or whether they were sent for stock-jobbing or other purposes.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he wished to ask, Whether the Papers for which he had intended to move on the subject of claims made by the Colony of Tasmania for the maintenance of Convicts from England will be laid before the House if he withdrew the Motion.
 MR. BUXTON  said, that although the imposition of a tax upon private brewers was but fair to the trade, still he believed that neither the brewers in London nor those in the country were inclined to hold the Chancellor of the Exchequer to his promise in that respect.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that in the course of the last session he called the attention of the House to the very inconvenient form in which the Supply Bill was submitted for the consideration and decision of the House; and he regretted to find that the same objectionable form, or something very like it, had been adopted upon the present occasion. He believed the House had become aware, from the confusion of the debate which had taken place on the second reading of the Bill now under consideration, that it was impossible to discuss with any advantage on that stage of the measure the principle of any of the various proposals which it contained. The House, by accepting that form of Supply Bills, were virtually abandoning that which had always been considered one of their principal functions—namely, the exercise of a careful control over the mode in which taxation was imposed upon the people. They decided last Session that they would not require the Chancellor of the Exchequer to divide his then Supply Bill so that
 1562 1563 1564
 MR. SEELY  strongly urged the justice of repaying to a man who had been unjustly surcharged the money out of pocket by the appeal.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, the Correspondence was comprised in the Annual Reports upon our Convict Establishments, and would shortly be in the hands of Members.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, that while he could not concur in all the financial propositions, he was not disposed to agree to the wholesale condemnation which, had been passed upon the policy of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The general policy of relaxing commercial restraints on foreign commodities was one which hon. Members would not venture to resist; but there could be no doubt that the particular details for carrying out that policy were a fair subject for criticism At the time when Sir Robert Peel introduced his new commercial system there was a general chorus of approval throughout the country; but he (Mr. Griffith) did not see why relaxation should have been carried so far as had been done by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and why a moderate duty should not have
 1573
 MR. PULLER  hoped the hon. Baronet would not press his objection. Whenever an Act spoke of two justices of the peace, a meeting in petty sessions was contemplated; and in a small matter, such as in granting occasional licences to sell beer for a few hours, to require that two magistrates should come together, perhaps from a long distance, for the purpose, would be creating unnecessary difficulties, the extent of which would be understood when they remembered how difficult it was sometimes to get two magistrates together to transact the ordinary business of the petty sessions.
 MR. ROBERTSON  said, there was no such clause in the Scotch Bill as the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets had stated. The clause to which he probably meant to refer was intended merely to afford an extension of the hours of business to hotels on the occasion of a public ball or similar entertainment.
 MR. BALL  suggested, that as the right hon. Gentleman had given way on a point of comparatively small importance, he should take into consideration one of much graver interest. Upon all occasions when he proposed the remission of taxation upon different articles of consumption, the Chancellor of the Exchequer told the House that reduction of taxation did not always mean diminished revenue. Now, if he would only carry out this principle with regard to the malt tax, he would bestow a great boon upon the agricultural interest, and would afford a great accommodation to the country at large.
 MR. BALL  remarked, that the observations which had just fallen from the Chancellor of the Exchequer induced him to hope that his feelings were softening towards the agricultural interest. If so, he hoped to achieve a victory on the present occasion, and would much rather do so than make a speech; and therefore, if the right hon. Gentleman intended to give up the clause, he would not address the Committee on the subject.
 MR. WARNER  quite concurred in the opinion, that some further restriction was
 1579
 MR. WARNER  proposed the insertion of words excluding spirits from the operation of the clause.
 MR. BENTINCK  hoped the clause would be rejected altogether.
 MR. BENTINCK  remarked, that if the object of the right hon. Gentleman was not to encourage card-playing, that certainly would be the result of a change cheapening the article which was indispensable for the purpose.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he had never heard that card-playing was conducive to the morality of any human, being; and whatever might have induced the right hon. Gentleman to facilitate access to beer, he could not understand on what ground he proposed to facilitate access to cards. He wished to know on what ground the proposition was made.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, that the proposal for renewing the income tax came with a
 1595 s s d
 MR. BENTINCK  said, that what the right hon. Gentleman had just told them was what he was always in the habit of saying when discussion was inconvenient. He said he would not follow all the points of the discussion, because he did not wish to raise a controversy. That might be a very convenient course for the right hon. Gentleman to follow, but it was not very likely to meet with the approbation of hon. Members. Then the right hon. Gentleman resorted to the plan of putting his own construction on what fell from hon. Members, and then proceeding to argue upon it. The right hon. Gentleman accused his hon. Friend the Member for the West Riding (Mr. Duncombe) of inconsistency; but he had misrepresented the purport of his hon. Friend's observations. He (Mr. Bentinck) understood his hon. Friend to blame the Chancellor of the Exchequer for getting rid of sources of revenue which, without resorting to new burdens, would have enabled them to meet their financial necessities and to deal with the income tax with which he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was of all men pledged to deal. Hon. Members opposite seemed almost as much to misunderstand the policy of the Chancellor of the Exchequer as the Chancellor of the Exchequer had chosen to misunderstand his hon. Friend. The hon. Member for Derby (Mr. Bass) had recommended the abandonment of the
 1571 A laugh 1572
 MR. HADFIELD  said, that the allowance of 7 s s s
 MR. WHALLEY  confirmed the very great dissatisfaction that was felt at the surcharges in the neighbourhood of Peterborough. But with respect to the com-
 1596
 MAJOR EDWARDS  said, that the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt) was not in the House, because he was too unwell to attend. He had been taken suddenly ill while on a Committee of which he was a member, and had been ordered not to leave his house.
 MAJOR EDWARDS  quite agreed as to the hardship of poor people being required to attend again and again at the court before their appeals were heard, and suggested that in these cases the principle adopted in the Revising Barristers' courts should be followed, and that costs should be allowed to persons where the opposition to their claim was frivolous or vexatious.
 MR. KER SEYMER  said, that for the first time they had heard in the House an advocate of the Maine Liquor Law; but he had better bring in a permissive Bill on the subject, in order that it might be fairly discussed, than attack the Chancellor of the Exchequer for giving those facilities for drinking beer which the people desired. Englishmen would have beer just as the higher classes would have iced champagne at dinner. They could not put down drunkenness by an Act of Parliament, and they must look for such a result to the general improvement in the habits of the people. That process was going on at present, and he saw no reason why they should not allow a man who liked his beer to have it.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he could also: bear testimony to the unnecessary harshness with which the income was in some cases assessed; and as it was not a popular tax in itself, care ought to be taken that it was not rendered still more disagreeable by the mode in which it was assessed and collected. But he rose to point out that by the Customs Consolidation Act it was provided that in inquiries by the Custom House authorities, very similar to those under consideration, the persons summoned were entitled, on the certificate of the magistrate, to reasonable expenses. The principle held good in the present instance.
 MR. FREELAND  said, he rose to ask, Whether any information has been received by the Government with reference to a defeat of Hussein Pasha in the Herzegovina, announced by telegram from Ragusa, by way of Vienna, and with reference to other reverses which the Turkish Troops are said to have sustained?
 MR. WYLD  said, the effect of the clause would be most injurious in the mining districts of Cornwall, on the occasion of the pay meetings. In the Cornish mines 500 or 1,000 men were paid their wages on a particular day; and if the clause stood, there would be enterprising publicans availing themselves of it, and tempting the men to spend their earnings in drink. He wished to ask the right hon. Baronet the Member for Petersham (Sir William Jolliffe) if he intended to press his Motion for the rejection of the clause, because if he did not do so, he (Mr. Wyld) would certainly move that it be struck out.
 MR. BRADY  bore testimony to the faithfulness and fairness with which the surveyors of the income tax discharged their duties.
 MR. DODSON  said, he thought the hon. and learned Member for Southwark (Mr. Locke) had put the case of the hop merchants a little stronger than he was entitled to do. The right to a drawback upon the exportation of hops was given when there was a duty upon their importation, so that if they were exported and the drawback obtained, a duty would have to be paid upon their re-importation. If, however, that right was to be continued after the abolition of the import duty, the holder of a stock of hops would be able not only to export his hops and obtain the drawback, but immediately to re-import them and take the chance of the English market.
 MR. LOCKE  objected to the 12th clause, which he contended had no right to be in the Bill. The Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed to repeal the duties on hops, both British and foreign; but if they searched the Bill from end to end, they would not find a word on that subject. This was a remarkable fact, as Clause 12 directly interfered with the rights of the owners and holders of hops. At present, the English grower of hops, after drying them, was liable to pay on the 1st of January 14 s 1568
 MR. LOCKE  also considered the concession insufficient; but as the parties interested were at the mercy of the Government and the House, he saw no hope of inducing the right hon. Gentleman to improve his offer. He had expected that a much larger sum than 7 s
 MR. LOCKE  said, that having for some years had the pleasure of sitting under the presidency of the right hon. Baronet, as chairman of the Court of Quarter Sessions, he knew how difficult it was for almost any person to obtain a licence to sell spirits; and he reminded him that, after all, the magistracy would have the means of checking the evils he anticipated if they should arise, by withholding the licence.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that under the circumstances, he should accept the offer made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and should withdraw the Motion which stood in his name, leaving it to the right hon. Gentleman to do what was required in this matter.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he had given notice of a Motion to allow a drawback to brewers on the hops which they had in their hands at the time of the passing of the Bill. The Chancellor of the Exchequer said he intended to take off the duty on hops, and to recoup himself by putting a duty on beer. If the hops had already paid duty as hops, and were subsequently rendered liable to a duty as beer, it was obvious that they would be taxed twice over. He therefore asked the right hon. Gentleman to allow a drawback on hops, in order that his darling expedient of taxing beer might be adopted. He wished to know what the right hon. Gentleman proposed to do on that point.
 MR. BASS  wished to repeat the objections he had already urged to the Bill before the Speaker left the chair. The Bill was without any precedent in one respect. It imposed taxes to the amount of £5,000 upon a small body of individuals—a measure which had never been heard of before. He objected to the principle introduced by the Bill. It could not stop at this point—either it must be carried further, or the House must retrace the step it had taken. The right hon. Gentleman said the brewers would obtain an advantage by the substitution of an addition to their licence for the duty on hops. But that could not be the case, because he imposed the tax in another shape. He (Mr. Bass) was surprised at the acquiescence of Members connected with the agricultural interest, especially those who represented the barley-growing districts, in the proposal to increase the malt duty. He was told that the change was approved of by the brewers in London; but he could assure the right hon. Gentleman that it was almost unanimously disapproved of by the country brewers. He denied that the proposition had been approved of by the brewers; and he believed that when the right hon. Gentleman paid the drawback on the stocks on hand, he would have a deficiency instead of a surplus of £180,000. The right hon. Gentleman said that justice to the common brewers required that in increasing the cost of their licence he should impose a tax on private brewers. Now, on the part of the common brewers, he (Mr. Bass) disclaimed any such compensation. If there was any compensation in the measure, it was a mere shadow; and, besides,
 1565
 MR. BASS  was anxious to know what amount the right hon. Gentleman computed he would have to pay to the hop factors for drawback. In the case of paper the drawback amounted to 150 per cent more than had been reckoned for.
 MR. BLACKBURN  moved an Amendment excepting Scotland from the operation of the Act, calling the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the foot that there was already a Bill in the House regulating the sale of beer and spirituous liquors in Scotland.
 MR. P. W. MARTIN  said, he could himself bear testimony to the frequency of surcharges in two districts with which he was well acquainted. Numbers of the small freeholders had besought his interference, under the mistaken impression that as a magistrate he could procure redress. In one instance a curate, whose whole income was only £100, was surcharged without any reason; and, as he was assessed in two different districts, he had to spend a couple of days in attendance at the public-houses where the appeals
 1594
 MR. MALINS  said, he could not see the justice of the principle on which the Chancellor of the Exchequer's proposal was based, for he could not perceive the difference between the case of hops and the case of other articles on which duties had been reduced or removed and drawbacks allowed. Unless the stock of hops in hand was so considerable that the difference between the 7 s s
 MR. ALCOCK  said, he would beg to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether he sees any objection to allow hackney cabs to pass through a portion of Hyde Park, in order to avoid Park Lane, which is now rendered almost impassable at times owing to the traffic to the Exhibition?
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, the objection taken was, that no alteration ought to be made in the existing system of collection and assessment, of which the fundamental theory was that the people should tax themselves.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  asked, whether, in some cases, this clause would not make the local Commissioners responsible for the acts of persons whom they did not appoint?
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  inquired, whether the right hon. Gentleman proposed to repeal the duty on dice, which at present amounted to a prohibition?
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he rose to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If he has any official information to the effect that the recent Murder in the county of Tipperary was committed about 3 p.m., at a most open spot on the public highroad, within two and a half miles of the Police Station at New Inn, and three and a half miles of those at Cashel and Golden respectively, and that its commission was not known to the Police at New Inn until 7 p.m., at Cashel until 8 p.m., or at Golden until the following morning?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not think that it would be convenient to the House that he should follow in the track of hon. Members who had opened questions of great breadth and importance not immediately connected with the scope of this Bill. The hon. Member for North Warwickshire had referred to the framing of the Bill, a question which involved matters of controversy that had been very carefully considered in former years, and upon which the House had arrived at a deliberate conclusion. He had no desire that that controversy should be revived; but, if it were, it would be better that it should be revived with the fulness and gravity of consideration which its importance deserved. On similar grounds, and also on others, he should decline to follow the hon. Member for the North Riding (Mr. Duncombe), because he could not conceive any task more hopeless than to endeavour to mitigate the displeasure with which that hon. Member regarded the financial proposals which he had made on behalf of the Government. So far was this displeasure carried that the hon. Member could see nothing but hostility to the landed interest in a Bill the only important new proposal of which with regard to taxation was to remove a tax from an agricultural product, so far, at any rate, as its immediate incidence was concerned, and lay it upon a class of traders. And let the House look at the other proposals of the hon. Member. The hon. Member complained that it was a breach of faith on his part not to obtain the repeal of the income tax in 1860, but, at the same time, he said that our expenditure amounted to nearly £70,000,000, and in another part of his speech, apparently referring to declarations which fell a few nights ago from the leader of his party, he took the opportunity of recording his dissent from those declarations, and said that he did not see how there could be any material reduction of expenditure. At one and the same moment, and in one and the same breath, the hon. Member declared there must be an expenditure of £70,000,000, and that he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had been guilty of a breach of faith in not obtaining the repeal of the income tax. To ordinary minds those propositions were a little difficult to reconcile; but, as the hon. Gentleman was able to reconcile them, the most becoming course which he could adopt would be to leave him in possession of that
 1570
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  had then misunderstood the hon. Member. He certainly understood him to say, that looking at the condition of Europe and at the circumstances which had led to that expenditure, no material reduction could take place at present. To the speech of the hon. Member for Southwark (Mr. Locke), who was always so vigilant in guarding the interests of his constituents, he might more conveniently reply when the House, having gone into Committee, came to the clause to which it referred; and with regard to private brewing licences he would only say that he never proposed those licences as an essential part of the financial scheme of Her Majesty's Government, and that it was a matter upon which they should feel themselves at liberty to give way to what might appear to be the prevailing sense of the House.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was ready to give a pledge that under this Bill no question could be raised as to the application of the Excise Act to private or dwelling-houses.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I will put my hon. Friend out of his pain in a few words. This proposal regarding private brewing was a proposal which the Government thought it to be their duty to make, upon the ground that when they were about to impose upon the brewers for sale a charge in lieu of the hop duty, abstract justice undoubtedly required that they should propose a corresponding charge upon private brewers. They were sensible that some inconvenience must attend the operation of that charge; but it was a choice between two difficulties, as is commonly the case in all matters of legislation. After what I have heard to-night stated in this House by my hon. Friends the Members for Derby and Maidstone, I cannot but feel that the relative weights in the scales are altered, and I admit that the principle of  volenti non fit injuria 1575
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he wished to draw attention to the Amendments of which he had given notice, and also to state, that there might be no misunderstanding on the subject, that the object of this clause was not to raise revenue; it was a matter of police regulation, and must be judged upon its own merits, irrespective of the fact that a small revenue would be derived from it. The clause applied to certain descriptions of public assemblies a principle which had already been recognised by the law as applicable to certain other descriptions of public assemblies. The law had provided for such public assemblies as were periodical and recurring with regularity, but the law had omitted to provide for such public assemblies as were occasional, although in principle the two cases were alike. When large public assemblies took place there, was a disposition among a portion of the community to provide themselves with liquor, and this disposition was generally found to be so strong, that, in fact, liquor always was provided. At any rate, it was not an object on the part of the Go-
 1576 1577
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that notwithstanding the inti-
 1581 "And with the consent in writing of two Justices of the Peace usually acting at Petty Sessions, in Petty Sessional Divisions within which the place of sale is situate."
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  remarked, that if the House had determined as to the mode of arranging such a clause for Scotland, that was a very clear and important precedent, affirming the principle of the proposition before the Committee; but he thought the proper result from that was, that they should exclude Scotland from the operation of this clause. He admitted the force of the objection taken by the hon. Baronet to the jurisdiction of a magistrate who might not be acquainted with the district or the circumstances of the case; and he would suggest, therefore, with the view of requiring that the magistrate should be locally acquainted, to insert these words—"usually acting in petty sessions for the district." It had been suggested that these licences should be signed by two magistrates; but he was inclined to think, as the operation would only last, perhaps, for one or two hours, or at the most only from sunrise to sunset, that it would be imposing too heavy a burden upon the magistracy to require the attendance of two of their number for the purpose. The argument that this was a measure tending to increase the consumption of spirits, was in the nature of an objection to the principle of the clause, which it appeared had been affirmed by the House a few days ago for Scotland. He believed, however, that the fact would be the reverse. It would substitute a controlled and regulated sale for what was at present unchecked and irregular. He thought it would be better to give the power to one justice of the peace.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, that owing to the impracticability of enforcing the payment, the duty on dice had been practically repealed for some time under a Treasury order.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it had been the intention of the Government, as the Bill was originally framed, to have no new assessment under Schedule D in the present year, believing that they should thereby be sparing a great number of persons a great deal of trouble. He found, however, that the public opinion on the point was very much divided, and the Government had therefore decided on having a new assessment under Schedule D, but not under Schedules A and B. Of course the assessors would, under the circumstances, receive the bounty. He moved to amend the clause accordingly.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER,  did not think any such inconvenient consequences were to be apprehended.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not think that an assembly whose members had every facility of access to cards, and to whom price was no object, ought to be so extremely fastidious when a proposition was made in favour of those to whom the question of cost was one of some importance. He did not propose the reduction in the same sense as he had proposed the reduction of duty on a large number of commodities for the health and advantage of the people. It was simply a question of superseding a law that was constantly evaded—substituting an honest system for a dishonest one, which encouraged dishonest men at the expense of the fair-dealing trader. The quantity of cards sold without paying any duty at all was enormously out of proportion to those on which the duty was paid, and he believed that by reducing the duty to 3 d s
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, as there was to be no new assessment under Schedules A and B, there would be no assessors; and, consequently, it would be impossible for assessors to present the collectors named by the parish. The clause merely sought to provide for the lapse which would otherwise be created.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied in the affirmative.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thought the Committee would see that he would not be justified in coming to the Committee and asking for £25,000 for the assessors on Schedules A and B for doing nothing. On Schedule D the work was done, and on it it ought to be paid.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that to adopt the Amendment would only lead to the violation of the law, and give rise to the odious employment of common informers.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was impossible to ascertain the quantity of hops in the country. Some facts would induce the belief that the stock was very large, and others that the stock could not possibly be so large, because his hon. Friend (Mr. Bass) had himself consumed so many. Upon a conjectural estimate, probably the drawback of 7 s
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would now reply to the question of the hon. Member for Southwark (Mr. Locke) before the Speaker left the chair. In his financial statement he announced that the Government were prepared to repeal the hop duty upon the condition that the greater part of it should be levied in another form. Since then many representations, as might be expected, had been made in favour of granting a drawback on hops. There were two main arguments urged in favour of that being done. One was with regard to the case of hop factors in London and the other great ports: they represented that it would pay these parties to export their hops, and keep them abroad for a sufficient time at a profit, and that therefore it would be much better to make a payment to them directly rather than that money should be wasted by exporting the hops for the purpose of bringing them back again. There was another argument made use of by some brewers, not by all. They said—"You are going to put on us a sort of commutation for the hop duty in the shape of augmented licence. We shall begin to brew in October with hops upon
 1586 s s
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  begged to set the hon. Baronet right. There were 1,200 cases where parties were not brought forward, no trouble being given. They were exempted before, and the exemptions were continued.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the Commissioners referred to were not the Commissioners of Inland Revenue, but the local Commissioners.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the Motion was informal, and could not be submitted to the Committee; but regarding it as an appeal to the Government, which could come from no one with greater title to respect and considerate attention than the hon. Baronet, still it was impossible to entertain it. The real principle involved was that all subjects of the Crown should be reimbursed out of the taxes for the trouble which they might be legitimately called upon to take in respect of the payment of taxes. No one could know the full extent to which such a principle, if once admitted, would necessarily lead. They could not levy any tax without imposing an additional tax in the shape of time and trouble. He admitted that they were bound to make this as light as possible; but he could not admit the principle that such trouble ought to be represented in money, and that repayment should be made out of the public purse. If there were abuse or an excessive use of power by public functionaries, it was a proper matter for the notice of the Government, or of the House when the Government failed to do their duty. The carelessness, the indiscreet and improper use of power, or the insolence of Government officials, was to be treated as a fault and an offence, and punished accordingly. A Return [No. 172] which had been recently laid upon the table with respect to a number of appeals in a district in Northamptonshire conveyed a most fallacious impression. It gave the House to understand that a Government officer had to deal with about 1,000 cases, and in 800 of them he was wrong. He was so startled by the Return that he at once called for an explanation. The business of assessing fell upon local officers; and when they did not do their duty, it was thrown upon the surveyor. In this particular district no less than 3,248 properties were entirely omitted by the parochial assessors, and the surveyor had to surcharge in 2,720 other cases. It was not possible for any man who, through the gross default of the local officers, was called upon to deal with nearly 6,000 assessments, instead of exercising a general supervision, to show minute circumspection in the circumstances of each case, and he thought the surveyor deserved praise for the manner in which he had encountered the difficulty, rather than cen-
 1592 1593
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  complained that the hon. Baronet should have made this statement, when he had just told the Committee that there were no such instructions; and he challenged a further investigation into the matter. With regard to the statement of the hon. Member for West Norfolk, there was very little use in stating cases without names. If the names were given, he could make inquiry and ascertain the facts, but not otherwise. At present, he could only state that no person had ever complained to him of payments exacted by any officer of the Government for preparing or filling up forms or returns. Very recently he had heard that persons had employed some man in the room of the Commissioners, and paid him 6 d
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was an entire mistake to imagine that any undue pressure had been authorized in the collection of the income tax. The estimate of the tax for last year was £10,350,000, and the return was only £10,365,000. That did not look as if any stringent or novel means had been employed to extract money. A new assessment must always be attended with considerable difficulty and inconvenience.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  explained, that the reason he had taken no notice of the hon. Baronet's complaint was that it did not depend upon him or upon any Government officer, who should be summoned, but it was done by the authority of the Commissioner. If the hon. Baronet could point out anything that the Government could do to remedy the evil, he should be happy to entertain the proposition; but he was afraid that it was incident to the nature of the tax, and he was convinced that the payment of compensation in such cases would only make matters worse. The hon. Baronet seemed astonished at the increase in the assessment last year as compared with former years. Last year was the first new assessment for five or six years, and of course in a district like that to which the hon. Baronet had referred, the value of property had risen considerably; and if no increase had taken place in the assessments, it would have been a proof that the officers of the Government were neglecting their duty.
 MR. BARROW  took occasion to ask why the Highway Bill had been so frequently postponed. The evidence taken before the Select Committee had now been
 1599
 MR. BARROW  felt that the scheme for legalizing the sale of liquors was the best way of placing that sale under effectual control. In the present temper of the country it was impossible to enforce the existing law. Not merely at cricket matches and fairs, but at Volunteer meetings, beer was necessary, and it; ought to be supplied in a legal manner.
 MR. BARROW  thought that the assessors should be appointed by the Income Tax Commissioners to whom they were known; such was the case in the country, and the consequence was that a re-assessment was hardly ever required.
 MR. W. EWART  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for War, If a Soldiers' Institute will be formed at Portsmouth, in conformity with the Report of Captain Pilkington Jackson?
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he thought this clause was very much out of place in a Bill of this kind, which was to raise £25,000,000 of taxes. It ought to be
 1582
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he wished to ask the Lord Advocate, On what grounds and at whose suggestion the Class Fees have been increased, and many bursaries abolished in the University of Aberdeen, without previous communication with the authorities of the University?
 SIR BALDWIN LEIGHTON  begged to explain that he was out of the House when the Chancellor of the Exchequer had made his observations, or he certainly should not have said what he had said.
 SIR BALDWIN LEIGHTON  drew attention to the complaints which had arisen in Shropshire in consequence of surcharges, and suggested that some instructions must have been given by Government to cause these surcharges.
 MR. BAINES  reminded the House that as the clause stood it was proposed to allow spirits to be sold as well as beer at fairs, which was a very serious matter, and would be dangerous to the morality of the people. Drunkenness, as they well knew, led to every description of crime, and be implored the Chancellor of the Exchequer to adopt the advice of the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire, and leave the law as it at present stood.
 MR. FRANK CROSSLEY  said, that what he most strongly objected to in the income tax was its inquisitorial character. No doubt surcharges were frequently made unjustly; but the grossest cases of fraud upon the revenue were perpetually occurring. Frequently, when very large profits were known to be made in trades, either no returns, or returns obviously false, were made; and surcharges were made sometimes to the extent of £15,000 and £20,000 a year, which were paid without a word. He hoped the services of the surveyors were duly appreciated by the Government. They were a class of men who endeavoured to do their duty fairly, and deserved support; and he hoped they would not be deterred from doing their duty by the charges that had been made against them that evening.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that no evidence had been taken, and it was the proceedings of the Committee, not evidence, that had been ordered to be printed. The Bill stood for Thursday, but he did not think it could be brought on then; and, if 80, Monday next would be the first opportunity for considering it, though other pressing business might prevent its discussion on that night.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  wished to call the attention of the Committee to a practical grievance, and hoped he should obtain its assent to a fair remedy, though it must also have the sanction of the Government, as it would involve, to a small extent, an outlay of the public money. In some parts of the country great numbers of income tax payers were summoned to have their appeals heard. Of these many had to attend twice for this purpose. In many cases the appeals were not heard at all; in the majority of cases the appeals were confirmed. He wished to impress on the subordinate officers a little more care in their mode of summoning persons liable to the tax. The proviso he proposed to add to Clause 29 would give to persons whose appeals were not heard, or, on being heard, were decided in their favour, the reasonable costs of 6 d Geo. III "That all persons entitled to appeal from assessments of income tax, who shall attend the meetings of the Commissioners when duly summoned, shall be, if the appeal is not heard, or, if heard, is decided in favour of the appellant, entitled to costs at the rate of 6 d 1591
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  asked, whether assessors would not be appointed under Schedule D?
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, it would appear by the construction of this and a subsequent part of the Bill, Clause 31, that there was an intention entirely to override the present system of appointing collectors, and to assume for the Commissioners powers which hitherto had belonged to the parish alone.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  called attention to the extraordinary harshness and severity with which the law had been enforced in Northamptonshire, particularly in the district of Peterborough. The people had been scourged to the utmost; the surcharges which had been made were most irritating, and, according to the right hon. Gentleman's own admission, 1,200 appeals had been struck off as not sustainable.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  understood there were 2,720 cases of surcharge, and of these a very small number were sustained. These proceedings had created quite a ferment in the county; and if the tax was to be collected on that principle, the Government would be compelled, as a far stronger Government was compelled in 1816, to abrogate the tax, whatever the necessities of the country might be.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  thought the whole matter should be left in the hands of the Excise, without the interposition of the magistrates at all. If the Excise authorities were allowed to grant occasional licences for a period not exceeding three days, they could send to the police a list of the names of those persons to whom such licences had been granted, and that would be sufficient to give the police jurisdiction.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  replied, that he could only repeat what he had stated the other evening. He was not aware of the exact distance of the scene of Mr. Thiebault's murder from the police barracks named by the hon. Member, but no doubt his information was correct. As regarded the commission of the offence, the whole of the parties suspected of being implicated in the murder were arrested on the night succeeding the outrage.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, the figures in the Return referred to sales under the new Landed Estates Court. The amount sold under the old Encumbered Estates Court was about £21,000,000.
 MR. LAWSON  thought there was a fallacy in the argument that no more intoxicating liquors would be sold than were sold now, because the legalizing the sale of any article must tend to increase its sale. The working classes honoured the right hon. Gentleman, and esteemed his policy, and he sincerely joined in those feelings; but the right hon. Gentleman could not do a greater injury to the working classes than by facilitating the sale of intoxicating drinks, and thereby promoting disorder and immorality.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  thought the licence of two magistrates was quite in accordance with all recent legislation that required magistrates to act. It would be no more inconvenient to obtain the signatures of two justices than of one.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, that if his objections were not removed, he should certainly divide the House against the clause.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  observed, that "the magistrate having jurisdiction on the spot' was any magistrate in the county, and by the Amendment, therefore, as it stood a licensed victualler could obtain the licence from any magistrate with whom he might happen to have influence. That would be an unwise provision, and might give occasion to great offence in the neighbourhood where the assemblage took place. He thought the power ought to be restricted to magistrates sitting in petty sessions within the district, to the chairman of petty sessions, or to some really responsible authority.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, great complaints were made of the harsh operation of the system of quarterly payments. Many persons, especially clergymen, who received their money half-yearly, were obliged to pay taxes on their incomes three months before they were received.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  then rose to move the total rejection of the clause. He should have been glad if he could have escaped dividing the Committee on the question; but he felt that not to enter his protest against this measure would be to fail in doing his duty to the country. He must therefore call the attention of the Committee to the evils which he believed would be the result of this measure. He thought that there was not a Member on the other side of the House who would not admit that much evil was caused in this country in consequence of a large part of our revenue being derivable from the sale of excisable liquors. There was not a single magistrate to be found, whether he resided in a rural district or a manufacturing town, who would not tell them that crime was greatly aggravated by the facilities afforded for obtaining drink. Under those circumstances, and believing this to be an extension of the power of vending intoxicating liquors, he felt it impossible to permit the Committee to give their assent to such a clause without appealing to the Chancellor of the Exchequer not to persevere in pressing it. His right hon. Friend the Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) had said that he believed that the clause, even if it passed, would be attended with little effect. It would certainly not prevent the people drinking beer, and he had no wish whatever to prevent the people drinking beer. He had, however, a strong wish to prevent the extension of intoxication, which, he believed, would result from the passing of this clause. What was the meaning of increasing the consumption of intoxicating liquors? it meant more crime of all kinds, more starvation, more deserted families; it meant every misery which
 1584 1585
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, that the Memorial from the Civil Servants in Bombay had been received by the last mail, and that the Memorial from the Civil Servants in Madras and Bengal had been presented and laid on the table on Friday last.
 MR. PEEL  in reply said, there could be no doubt that the establishment of Post Office Savings Banks imposed additional labour on Postmasters; and the question was under consideration whether they should, in consequence, receive any increase of remuneration.
 MR. COWPER  said, the Bill to which the hon. Gentleman referred was closely connected with the Courts of Justice (Building) Bill, and it would be more convenient that the Government should state their intentions upon the subject when the Order of the Bay for considering that latter measure should come on.
 MR. PEEL  said, that the property to which the hon. Gentleman referred was for a long time in military occupation by the War Department. When it was no longer required for that purpose, a question arose whether the title to it was vested in the War Department or in the Crown as part of its hereditary revenue. That question had been submitted to the opinion of the law officers of two Governments, and their opinion was that it belonged to the Crown in respect of its territorial revenue. It was not usual to lay before the House the cases that had been prepared for the opinion of Her Majesty's law advisers, and there was nothing peculiar in this instance to call for a departure from the ordinary practice. The case in question was prepared jointly by the solicitors of the War Office and of the Woods and Forests. There was every reason, therefore, for presuming that the whole matter was fairly set forth as between those two departments. The War Office was reluctant to part with the property; but submitting to the opinion of the law officers, they gave it up to the Woods and Forests. The present Lord Chancellor and Mr. Justice Keating were the law advisers when an opinion was taken in the first instance, in 1857; subsequently an opinion
 1623
 MR. LINDSAY  said, that while admiring the spirit which actuated the hon. Ba-
 1664
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  suggested that the hon. Member should bring forward any Amendment upon the subject on the Report.
 MAJOR HAMILTON  thought, that the clause should be extended so as to embrace the lower as well as the higher classes.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he-would not give the clause any active op position, but neither would he pledge himself on a future occasion to support its principle.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  said, that he had on the previous day, with the permission of the House, asked a question of the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty with a view to eliciting information as to whether Captain Coles had been consulted by the Admiralty with regard to the intended experiment at Shoeburyness on the cupola shield fitted on board the  Trusty The Times
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  also opposed the Motion. If the sale of liquors were a nuisance, as the clause would imply, then the proper course to take would be to prohibit it altogether. If this proposal were assented to, he did not see how they could fairly object to the introduction of the Maine Liquor Law. The effect of such a provision would be that there would be a canvass on the part of the owners of existing public-houses to prevent the opening of new ones, and thus secure to themselves-a monopoly.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  opposed the definition, which would have shut him out from shelter and refreshment any day last week. The definition was not wide enough.
 GENERAL UPTON  seconded the Motion.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Sir, I am greatly obliged to the noble Lord and to the hon. and gallant Member for Christ-church, for putting these questions. I have read in  The Times 1619 The Times Royal Sovereign
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  begged to join most heartily in every word which the hon. Baronet had uttered in praise of Sailors' Homes. Those institutions throughout the country had been of inestimable service to the seamen, and he trusted they would receive the protection and assistance of all connected with the seafaring business of the country. The only point in which he differed from the hon. Baronet was in thinking that the public ought not to pay for every one of these establishments, but that they ought rather to be supported by the large mercantile interests whose sailors occupied the: Homes, and for whose direct interest it therefore was that the Homes should be provided. This was one of many questions the real effect of which, if assented to, would be to draw upon the public purse. Although the hon. Baronet had placed before the House a most pathetic appeal, which had been listened to with great interest and attention, it would be his (Lord C. Paget's) duty to show that there were no real grounds for calling on the public for assistance to these institutions. He had not exactly gathered from the hon. Baronet whether he thought the Admiralty; ought to propose a much larger Vote for this particular object; but he entertained no doubt that such was his intention. If they were to increase the area of assistance, that area must be extended to the whole United Kingdom; and if the hon. Baronet's proposition was confined to the sum already at the disposal of the Admiralty, it could be of very little avail if it were divided among a great number of such establishments. As the hon. Baronet must be aware, the grant now at the disposal of the Admiralty for Sailors' Homes and other charitable institutions was very small. It amounted to but £1,621 per annum, of which only £500 found its way to Sailors' Homes, all of which were either in the immediate neighbourhood of the dockyards, or situated so near to them that when the seamen of the navy were on shore on liberty they could make use of them. It was therefore only equitable, that as the sailors of the Queen's service frequented those institutions, the country should make some contribution towards their cost. He was not aware of any bargain ever having been made by the Admiralty that they should not give any such contribution unless the private subscriptions raised amounted to a certain sum. The single consideration with the Admiralty was that
 1663
 LORD LOVAINE  thought there was some misunderstanding on the matter. The funds distributed by the Admiralty were distributed by them as proprietors, and in that light only; they were not to be regarded as a Government grant in any way. He hoped the hon. Baronet would not press the matter to a division.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he rose to ask the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether it is the fact, as he understood it had been stated on the previous evening, that Captain Coles had been consulted by the Admiralty with regard to the experiments about to be made on his shield or cupola; and that those experiments were to be under his direction; and if that be the case, can the noble Lord give any explanation of the letter from Captain Coles which appeared in  The Times
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, If it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to bring forward any measure during the present Session for the purpose of carrying into effect the recommendations contained in the Report of the Committee on Miscellaneous Expenditure, so far as they suggested a transfer of all public works (save those for Naval and Military purposes) to one Department, and the appointment of a permanent Commissioner of Works?
 MR. AYRTON , in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to authorize the construction of tramways on turnpike roads and other roads in England, said, that power had already been given to the local authorities in Scotland and in Ireland for the construction of tramways there; but the measure he asked leave to introduce did not propose to confer such an extensive power as this. In London the tramways laid down had been found most inconvenient
 1620
 MR. AYRTON  said, the Bill did not contemplate the formation of any company, as it would be open to any one to lay down a tramway. Nor did it confer any authority upon local surveyors. In reply to the S remarks of his hon. Friend the Member for Westminster (Sir J. Shelley) he might observe that it was by no means necessary that tramways, if laid down within the metropolis, should be laid down in the same objectionable manner as those to which he had referred.
 MR. DUNLOP  thought it only fair that, the inhabitants of the district should have a voice as to whether a licence should be granted.
 MR. FINLAY  was willing to limit the clause to new licences, so that it should only apply to houses that had not been licensed before.
 MR. FINLAY  moved the addition of a clause—Licence not to be granted if objected to by two-thirds of the assessable proprietors and occupiers of houses, situated within 100 yards of the premises for which such licence is sought to be granted.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH , in moving for papers connected with the transfer of Hull Citadel from the War Department to the Woods and Forests, said, that when the Citadel was no longer wanted for military purposes, it might have been supposed that the property would have been sold, and the proceeds applied to the construction of similar defences in other parts of the Kingdom. But no sooner had the War Department determined to give up the works as a fortress, than the Citadel was claimed by the Board of Woods and Forests as the property of the Crown. A case was drawn up and submitted to the law officers of the Crown; and on the opinion they gave the Board of Ordnance gave up the property to the Woods and
 1622 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, that She will be graciously pleased to give directions that there be laid before this House, a Copy of the Case prepared in the War Office, and settled in the Department of Woods and Forests, which was submitted to the Law Officers of the frown, respecting Hull Citadel; and of their Opinion given thereon."
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he wished to know whether, in case the Government determine on giving effect to the recommendation of the Committee, they will lay a measure upon the subject before the House.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, that the property now in question never was the property of the Crown, except as a portion of the defences of the kingdom. Great complaints were on one occasion made, that the gates had been shut; and a representation having been made to Parliament, it was distinctly stated that the citadel of Hull was purchased by the public money. What he complained of was the large expense the country was put to in the shape of Crown revenues.
 MR. LAYARD  said, that Naples, as his hon. Friend was aware, was a place full of objects of great interest; and Her Majesty's Government did not consider it necessary to ask explanations with respect to a visit paid by any person to that city. But if there were any private motives in the case to which the hon. Member referred, he would probably find them in the  Moniteur
 MR. BUXTON  concurred in the opinion that serious inconvenience would arise from adopting the Motion in its present form. There would be no end to the demands made upon the House for contributions towards private charities if they were once to yield to appeals like this; and it therefore behoved them to pause before setting a mischievous precedent. If the House attempted to supersede private charity by public grants, the result would be to dry up the sources of private contributions, and matters would be worse than at present. Even the suggestion of the hon. Member for Sunderland was unnecessary. The shipwrecked Mariners' Society had organized machinery in every port of the kingdom to preserve shipwrecked sailors from starvation, and to forward them to their homes.
 MAJOR CUMMING BRUCE  said, he did not think the clause ought to be adopted.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, in reply, that he had no official knowledge that any such consequence as that to which the hon. Gentleman alluded had followed from the course taken by the Government in that matter; but he had heard that two or three places, including the town which the hon. Member represented, were anxious that the Bill in question should pass, in order that they might have a remission of their present assessment. In reply to the second question of the hon. Gentleman, he bad to state that he had
 1616
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the French Government have made any communication to the English Government in explanation of the object of Prince Jerome Napoleon's present visit to Naples?
 MR. MURE  confessed he was favourable to the principle of the clause: but, he thought that the clause went further than the hon. Member who framed it intended.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  rose, pursuant to notice, to call attention to the establishment of a branch of the Royal Mint at Sydney, New South Wales, and to move for a Select Committee to consider and report on the expediency of legalizing the circulation in the United Kingdom of the sovereigns coined at the Branch of the Royal Mint at Sydney. He might say, at first, that he understood the Government did not intend to oppose the Motion, and therefore he should not go into the subject at any length. It was known that since the discovery of the gold-fields of Australia—that was, within the last ten years—gold to the amount of upwards of £100,000,000 sterling had been received in this country from that colony, the receipts averaging about ten millions per annum. In the year 1853, after considerable negotiation, and on the representation of parties here, as well as in the Australian colonies, her Majesty's Government agreed that a branch mint should be established in New South Wales. A Treasury Minute was issued for that purpose, wherein it was stipu-
 1666 "That a Select Committee be appointed to consider and report on the expediency of legalizing the circulation in the United Kingdom of the Sovereigns coined at the Branch of the Royal Mint at Sydney."
 MR. CRAUFURD  thought the point ought to be settled before they went out of Committee.
 MR. MACEVOY  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether
 1615
 COLONEL FRENCH  thought the right hon. Baronet had proved the inexpediency of the Bill. He was not prepared to give his assent to it.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether it is true that Mr. George Linnæus Banks has been placed on the Civil List for a pension of £50 per annum?
 MR. HODGKINSON  said, he wished to ask the President of the Poor Law Board, Whether he has any official know-ledge that, in consequence of the Government having in the last and the present Session promoted a Bill to amend the Law respecting Parochial Assessments, the revision of the assessments in a large number of parishes is postponed; and whether there is a probability of the Bill now before the Select Committee of which he is Chairman being reported to the House so as to give sufficient time for its Consideration and being passed into Law during the present Session?
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that if this was an Imperial question, there was the more reason for its being considered by the Imperial Parliament. He believed the value of the coin was as little likely to be tampered with in Australia as in England. The East was inundated with money coming from Sydney, where it circulated with
 1668
 MR. BLAKE  was favourable to the principle of the Bill, but he rather objected to give the grand juries as they were now constituted any additional powers whatever. He understood that the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) had promised
 1670
 MR. BRADY  said, the Irish grand jury laws generally were in an unsatisfactory State, and required immediate revision.
 MR. HENNESSY  asked leave to withdraw the Bill seeing that the hon. Member for Waterford had announced his intention to introduce a general measure next Session.
 MR. HENNESSY , in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, the grand jury secretaries were appointed under an Act of George IV., and the salaries were then fixed. Their duties had been greatly increased, and the price of provisions had become considerably higher, and the object of the Bill was to enable the grand juries to increase the salaries. The grand juries were in favour of the Bill, and a clause was inserted enabling the ratepayers to review the decision by which the salary of any secretary was raised. It ought to be a Government measure; and if the Government would undertake it, he would; withdraw this Bill.
 MR. HUBBARD  then rose to move the Resolution of which he had given notice—
 "That the incidence of an Income Tax should not fall upon Capital or Property; and that when applied to the annual products of invested property, it should fall only upon the net Income arising therefrom; and that the net Profits, Gains, or Salaries of persons in partnerships (not being public Companies) engaged in any trade, manufacture,
 1624 "Your Committee, however, after full consideration, have arrived at the conclusion that the plan proposed by their Chairman does not form the basis for a practical and equitable re-adjust-
 1625 1626 1627 d d 1628 1629 Vict Vict "Certain advances of public money to promote the improvement of lands have been made by way of loan…and the repayment thereof has been secured by a rentcharge…. by which the principal sums advanced will eventually be repaid with interest thereon, and it is just that provision should be made for deducting and allowing the duty charged by this Act in proportion to such interest on the payment of such rent-charge; it shall be lawful for any person paying any such rent-charge from time to time to deduct and retain thereout in respect of the duty chargeable under this Act one-third part of the sum which the rate of such duty computed on such rent-charge will amount to, and no more." 1630 1631 Vict 1632 1633 s d s s s d d 1634 s s d s d s 1635 "I would treat professional and mercantile incomes in the light of short annuities, and levy upon them the same rate; and with regard to incomes of this description I should act very much as the State has acted, not making it very inquisitorial, because if you did, there would be a rebellion against the tax, and it would be no longer paid. I believe the tax has been levied with great moderation by the State; that was the practice when I was a merchant, from 1808 to the repeal of the 10 per cent tax. For years I made the same return annually, and was never surcharged. Supposing A, employed as a merchant, returns his £1,000 profit for the year, do you consider that he ought to be taxed three per cent upon that £1,000, or is there any modification by which you would alter the amount on which he should pay the tax? —I would treat that precisely like any other annuity. The merchant makes his own return. The greatest indulgence is in that respect shown him by the State. In the case of other properties the parties may possibly have reason to complain. A man who has an income derived from land or houses, gets no allowance for repairs, and various other heavy deductions which are made upon the nominal rent; but the mercantile and professional men make their own returns at their own discretion; and whatever the return may be, it is hardly possible by investigation to find out whether the return is true or
 1636 1637 1638 1639 "That, in the opinion of this House, the incidence of an Income Tax should not fall upon Capital or Property; and that when applied to the annual products of invested property, it should fall only upon the net Income arising therefrom; and that the net Profits, Gains, or Salaries of persons and partnerships (not being public Companies) engaged in any trade, farm, manufacture, profession, or salaried employment should be subject, previous to assessment, to such an abatement as may equitably adjust the burthen thrown upon Intelligence and Skill as compared with Property."
 MR. HUBBARD  in reply said, that he was surprised that only one Member of the House should have risen to speak to his Motion, the more so as a notice of Amendment by the hon. Member for Stamford (Sir S. Northcote) had been on the paper for a considerable time. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had, however, made a formidable attack upon the proposition he had ventured to submit to the House, and he wished to say a few words in reply to some of his observations. In the first place, the right hon. Gentleman had complimented him on his strength of will in reproducing in the House the proposition which had been rejected by the Committee. Now, so far as the rejection of his draft Report by the Committee went, it was only rejected by a majority of one, after which he took no further part in the proceedings of the Committee. It was not thought advisable to ask the concurrence of the House in regard to the Report, it being then so near the end of the Session; and for that reason the simple course was proposed of reporting the evidence alone. He denied altogether that a Committee of the House, or even the House itself, constituted an infallible guide, and he would beg to remind them that the House once voted that a £1 note was worth 20 s s 1656 d d d d d 1657
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he should vote for the Motion if the hon. Member divided the House. It was a most important question, because, in point of fact, it involved the property in the foreshore of the whole coast of England, and the public were entitled to the fullest information. It might not be advisable as a general rule to give the opinions of the law officers, but this was an exception.
 MR. MARSH , in seconding the Motion, reminded the House that the pillar dollar of Spain, which came from the Colonies of that country, obtained an immense circulation, and was found very convenient in commercial transactions. He did not see why coin struck at the Royal Mint of a colony should not be allowed to circulate in this country. The Australian sovereign was gradually creeping into circulation here, and being fully equal in value to the English sovereign, there could be no reason why they should not be a legal tender. The coins were, moreover, received in France and other countries without diffi-
 1667
 MR. O'BRIEN  said, the fees to secre-
 1672
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, cases had arisen in which magistrates in Scotland had been called on to decide what the words " bonâfide
 MR. BLACKBURN  expressed his dissent from the proposal.
 MR. WYKEHAM MARTIN  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to give any remuneration to the Postmasters in consequence (if the additional labour imposed upon them by the institution of Post Office Savings Banks?
 MR. CRAWFORD  begged to second the Motion of his hon. Friend, and in doing so joined in asking the House to affirm the principle for which he contended. It was because he saw little prospect of being able to dispense with the income tax altogether, although it had been first imposed for a purely temporary object, that he assumed the responsibility of taking part in this discussion; and he was perfectly satisfied that he echoed the sentiments of the important constituency he had the honour to represent, and of all the other large constituencies in the country. Ever since the first institution of the tax, and especially in the years 1848 and 1851, great dissatisfaction had been expressed at the working of the income tax, which had culminated in the appointment of Mr. Hume's Committee. He had hitherto always indulged in the hope that we should be able to part with the income tax; but he was no longer able to see that prospect before them. The country appeared to be of a different mind altogether, and in the present large expenditure of the country, a speedy termination of which could not be expected, he could indulge in the hope no longer. The petitions recently presented embodied a fair
 1640 "5. That with the same view it is expedient to make a distinction between income arising from capital of every description, and income arising from labour merely, levying a smaller proportion of the latter income than the former. "6. That with the same view it is expedient to make a distinction between income possessed by persons who have only an interest in the same for their lives or for some lesser term, and income possessed by persons who have an interest in the capital from whence the income arises, levying a larger proportion of the latter income than of the former.—[3  Hansard "The tax now proposed, however, was one to which he could not consent. Was it a just tax? Was it an equal tax? Those were questions for the country to determine. Was it fair for those who were in the permanent occupation of property —that those whose property descended from father to son, and who might dispose of it as they pleased—should pay in the same proportion as those who obtained their annual incomes by their own exertions; incomes which would be immediately cut off by some of those casual accidents to
 1641 Hansard "Again, we are told that taxation ought to be equal. Can anything be more monstrously unequal than the tax recommended to us?"—3  Hansard "The right hon. Baronet had professed that he wished to take from all persons according to their means; but he failed to realize his professions, because he exacted from persons in trade and from persons who lived by their learning and faculties as much as from individuals of real property. He appealed to every man. Conservative or Liberal, whether this was just; and, moreover, whether they would sanction injustice with their eyes open? Did not such flagrant injustice invite every species of evasion?"—[3  Hansard "But let their Lordships go a step further; let them go to trades and professions. There again the inequality was more gross than ever. But he would not advert to this part of the subject further, because his noble and learned Friend (Lord Brougham) had, on a former occasion, most eloquently dwelt upon the peculiar circum stances of those who in a state of bad health and of declining age, and finding their professional earnings were escaping from their reach, were nevertheless by the rigid rule laid down—and he admitted necessarily laid down—obliged to pay the fullest amount on their earliest returns, with out having the poor consolation of enabling them to explain their case, because that very explanation would be injurious to them, and deprive them of the benefit which their former reputation had obtained for them."—[3  Hansard "I am not one of those who make light of these charges [against the income tax]. In my own individual opinion it is perfectly plain, from the mode in which the income tax was put an end to at the end of the war, that it is not well adapted for a permanent portion of your ordinary financial system. Whether it is so or not, on which
 1642 Hansard "I did state that the burden which the income tax casts upon property is unequal as compared with the burden which it puts upon intelligence and skill. I did not contest the opinion commonly entertained that intelligence and skill were too hardly pressed upon as compared with property."—[3  Hansard "Now, if there was at that time (1853) any feeling in or out of Parliament which was stronger than another, it was, that it was absolutely necessary that the Government should either abolish the income tax, or should modify it to moot certain inequalities and injustices, which were apparent in its operation."—3  Hansard "It is repugnant to public feeling to impose the same rate of tax upon incomes derived from permanent realized property, enjoyed without exertion or risk, and incomes derived from trades, professions, and salaries, which are subject to both." "I should say that the first rule is the general rule of taxation—namely, equality; that is to say, taxation in proportion to means. But this does not, I think, imply taxation in proportion to the whole of a man's receipts, because the whole of his receipts may greatly exceed what he can with propriety expend upon himself. It seems to me, I therefore, that two kinds of allowances are necessary, an allowance for small incomes and for those that are of temporary duration or precarious. And I think that the present income tax tails of justice under both those heads, though I do not go nearly so far as many people in my estimate of the amount of that injustice. By the adoption of the principle of not taxing savings all the claims of justice towards individuals would be included and covered." 1643 The Economist "It will be admitted that the time has arrived when a reconsideration of the income tax, with a view to some discrimination between the various sources from which income is derived, is imperatively forced upon the Government. Notwithstanding the ability with which a uniform rate of charge was sustained, it is impossible not to admit that the conviction on the part of the public of its injustice has assumed a more substantive and practical shape than at any former time, and that a very large majority in Parliament is prepared to act according to that conviction."
 MR. COLLINS  said, he wished to ask
 1617
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  was sorry to have to oppose the appointment of the Committee, but this was an Imperial and not a local question. When the Sydney Mint was established, it was made a condition that the sovereigns coined there should not be made a legal tender here; and nothing had since occurred which could change the views of the Government. The coinage of this country had always been produced in the country, and there were good reasons why it should be so; for it was necessary to guard against any possibility that its integrity would ever be tampered with. All our trading relations were regulated by it, and British merchants should always be able to feel that British coin would pass all over the world at a certain rate of exchange. Since 1851 £100,000,000 of gold had been produced in Australia; and if sovereigns coined there had been a legal tender in England, this amount would have come to us in the shape of coin. But it was not wanted here in that shape, somewhere about £60,000,000 only having been coined here during the last eleven years. The Bank of England had no exclusive privilege in coining. It was merely used as the medium through which coin was obtained for the convenience of the country. It had no interest except that of preserving the integrity of the coin. But if Australian sovereigns should be made a legal tender here, they would become an essential part of the coin of this country; and if any tampering should take place with the colonial coin, Imperial interests would be affected. This was not a question for a Committee, and he felt very much inclined to take the sense of the House against the proposition of his ton. Friend.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, he hoped that the hon. Baronet would not press this subject to a division, for these institutions were well supported, and he was sure there was spirit enough in the British shipowners to induce them to do all that they could for the British sailor. He was connected with the Shipwrecked Mariners' Institution, and constantly he was called upon to receive legacies on its behalf, nor was there at any time any want of sympathy, especially when severe casualties occurred. There was no want of sympathy for the British sailor, and nothing was more undesirable than that they should endeavour to induce these institutions to believe that they would receive any large aid from Government. These institutions, if well managed, ought o be self-supporting.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said the landowners of Ireland were already over-taxed. They might be truly described as a body of encumbered proprietors charged with the support of a horde of paupers, placemen, and policemen. He admitted, however, that some grand jury secretaries were under-paid; but the present Bill, if read a second time, would require to be carefully considered in Committee.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he hoped his hon. Friend the Member for Peterborough (Mr. Hankey) would not oppose the Motion. He quite agreed with his hon. Friend that this was not to be treated as a mere matter of form, that it should be regarded as an Imperial question, for the subject was one on which every step should be taken with the utmost circumspection and deliberation. The question had, in fact, been brought forward on Imperial grounds. It was no doubt desirable that the country should not be flooded with quantities of this coin; but he had no apprehension of such a result. It might be true that we had not perfect identity in the composition of all the sovereigns in circulation in Australia, but neither had we perfect identity in the composition of all the sovereigns now circulating in this country, for some of them were alloyed in one way and some in another. But had we absolute security for the sufficiency of value of an Australian sovereign? The answer to that question did not admit of the smallest doubt. The Mint in Australia had been established by due authority, and had been properly described as a Branch of the Royal Mint in England. His hon. Friend (Mr. Hankey), in saying that an Australian sovereign was at present of greater value than a British sovereign, appeared to raise an inference that some day it might be of less value than a British sovereign. But that could not be, for the Mint regulations would prevent any such thing. At any rate, that was a matter on which it would be the duty of the Committee clearly to satisfy itself. There were two reasons which appeared to him to justify the appointment of this Committee. In the first place, he thought the proposition of the hon. Member for Greenwich (Alderman Salomons) would be advantageous to the colonies. He did not in the smallest degree apprehend that British sovereigns would be supplanted by colonial sovereigns of less value. Neither the Chancellor of the Exchequer nor the House ought to grudge the colonies the privilege of supplying this country with gold coined at their own expense. The proposed Committee ought not to meet with a foregone conclusion. The Committee would consider the evidence of persons connected with trade and with the
 1669
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : My hon. Friend who seconded this Motion has combined together in his speech a reference to two matters which are in themselves perfectly distinct, though I admit they are associated in his mind. I mean the question whether the income tax should be reconstructed, or rather, whether the subject of its reconstruction should be agitated; and the question whether the income tax is to be a permanent part of our financial resources. With regard to the permanence of the income tax, with regard to its security or insecurity, its desirableness or otherwise, as a permanent portion of our finance, I have nothing to say on this occasion; because it was my duty, now nine years ago, to explain myself fully, on the part of the Government to which I then belonged, with regard to that subject; and I believe I might say that to every word of what I then uttered I now deliberately adhere. I did not then think that an income tax of 7 d d 1644 1645 "Guided by these considerations, your committee have arrived at the conclusion that the plan proposed by their Chairman (the plan now before the House in the form of this Resolution) does not afford the basis of a practicable and equitable readjustment of the income tax; and they feel so keenly the dangers and ill consequences to he apprehended from an attempt to unsettle the present basis of the tax, without a clear perception of the mode in which it is to be reconstructed, that they are not prepared to offer to your honourable House any suggestions for its amendment. 1646 1647 bonâ fide 1648 d d d 1649 s d d d d d d 1650 d s s d Primâ facie d d 1651 d d 1652 d d d d d d d 1653 d d d 1654 d s 1655
 MR. DEEDES  said, he should have liked to hear who were to be the promoters of these tramways—whether they were to be executed by a company or by persons locally resident in different parts of the country? On the other hand, a provision which gave such a power to the local authorities would be viewed with much jealousy. In some instances, surveyors of highways had assumed a right to authorize the erection of electric telegraph posts, or interference with the road for one purpose or another. But the right to the soil of the road remained in the proprietors on
 1621
 SIR DAVID DUNDAS  said, that upon a clause of so much importance the Committee had a right to expect that the Law Officer of the Government would have made up his mind upon it. For himself, as he had a decided opinion on the subject, he should oppose the clause. If the justices were competent to the discharge of their duties, they ought not to be over-ruled by persons living within either 100 or 200 yards. If he stood alone, he should divide against the clause.
 SIR HENRY STRACEY  rose to move,
 "That in the distribution of the Parliamentary Grant to Sailors' Homes, it is desirable that the Admiralty should be empowered to give assistance to such Sailors' Homes as in its judgment it may deem most deserving of support, whether situated in the neighbourhood of dockyards or not." 1659 The Times 1660 1661
 SIR HENRY STRACEY  said, that he intended his Motion to apply only to the amount at the disposal of the Admiralty, and he did not think that Sailors' Homes received a fair proportion of that sum. He believed, that although Government aid should be given to these institutions, the public aid would be continued to them. He trusted that the Government would feel that this was such a small matter that they would at once grant it, and not force him to a division.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  thought the right hon. Baronet had made out a good case not only against the present Bill, but for the introduction of another, regulating the whole matter, which was in a most unsatisfactory state. The Secretaries received these fees without any control over the amounts charged. He hoped the right hon. Baronet would, at some future time, propose a Bill, not abolishing the fees, but regulating their amount and carrying them to the county fund.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, his objection to the Motion was removed by the declaration of his hon. Friend that it was ultimately his intention to refer the Bill to a Select Committee. But he could promise him that, in consequence of the experience they had already had of the effects of laying down tramways in the crowded thoroughfares of the metropolis, unless the metropolis were exempted from the Bill, it would meet with great opposition.
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, he believed there were many parts of the country in which tramways would be found a great convenience by the inhabitants, while it would be an act of great humanity to provide the relief which they would afford to horses. He had no doubt that such tramways would be most beneficial to the whole country, and would in process of time prove; valuable feeders to the various lines of railways. For these reasons he hoped that leave would be given to bring in the Bill.
 MR. KNIGHTLEY  said, he had the misfortune of being accidentally absent during the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer; but he agreed generally with what he had heard the right hon. Gentleman say on the subject on previous occasions. The hon. Gentleman, in proposing his Motion, seemed to have proceeded on what was known in America as the "logrolling" principle; and seemed to have altogether forgotten that the landlord paid land tax, poor rate, highway rate, police rate, and county rate. And independently of all this, and independently of the succession duties, it was now proposed to saddle him by an addition to his income tax. Sir Robert Walpole said, that the agriculturists might be sheared as easily as their own sheep, but that it was a very difficult thing to squeeze money out of the commercial classes. He contended that, owing to wet seasons and bad harvests, the income from landed property was fluctuating and uncertain, as well as that from commercial pursuits. The simplicity of the present system, at all events, was a recommendation; for a man paid upon his income as long as he received one; and if he received no income, he paid no tax. They could not diminish the Estimates to any considerable extent without imperilling the safety of the country; and if a portion of the revenue was to be cut off, how was the deficiency to be met? There was only one answer to that—by laying excessive, exclusive, and exceptional burdens on annuitants, mortgagees, and fund-
 1658
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  disclaimed having foreshadowed any measure of the kind suggested by the hon. Member for Waterford. What he said was, that he should be glad during the recess to give a careful consideration to the whole of the grand jury laws. He was sure, that if he had introduced such a proposition as this on behalf of the Government, he should have been opposed by nearly all the Irish Members. On the part of the Government he was bound to give a decided opposition to the Bill proposed by the hon. Member for the King's County. There was no necessity for increasing the salaries of the secretaries of grand juries, as he could show that they were remarkably well paid and their duties very light. Every addition to their salaries would be an addition to the county cess, and they ought to deal cautiously with the amount of money paid to the county officers. So far from these gentlemen requiring an increase of pay, whenever there was a secretary's place vacant there were numerous applications for the office; and not only that, many were ready to give a handsome gratuity for it. This did not look like a state of things calling for such a Bill. It had been said that the secretaries had their time so much occupied that they could not engage in any other business. He had made inquiries on this point, and he found some of these gentlemen employed as treasurers to public bodies, connected with insurance offices, acting as agents; and one secretary styled himself a "perpetual commissioner for the transfer of property by married women." They were not only paid a salary, but received large emoluments from fees. He would take four counties to show what was the condition of these ill-paid officers. The secretary of the county of Donegal received a salary of £203; but he also received in fees on the applications for payment to contractors £223, making his total receipts £426. Yet this secretary asserted he was out of pocket by his office £150; he could not understand how this could be the case, when there were twenty gentlemen quite ready, not only to succeed him, but to pay for succeeding him. The secretary for the county of Down received as salary £203; but
 1671 d s s d s
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that considerable changes had recently been made by the Irish Government in the rules for the management of Irish Lunatic Asylums, and he was happy to say that the new system had given general satisfaction.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, he thought the parties ought to have the same right of appeal that they had at present. He saw no reason why the right of appeal should be taken from them. He would take the sense of the Committee on the clause unless the appeal was allowed to remain.
 MR. ADAM  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether he has received any Memorial from Her Majesty's Covenanted Civil Servants in Bombay, praying for the redress of certain grievances; and when the Memorials from Civil Servants in Bengal and Madras will be in the hands of Members?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he did not then remember the whole of the recommendations of the Committee to which the noble Lord referred. But he believed that almost all the public buildings, except those of a Military or a Naval character, were at present under the supervision of the First Commissioner of Public Works. With regard, however, to the main drift of the question, whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to appoint a permanent head of the Department of Works, he certainly was not prepared to say that the Government had any such intention. That would withdraw from responsibility in that House the chief direction of the works on public buildings, and he thought that would not be advisable. In the first place, it would deprive many hon. Members of the agreeable opportunity they at present possessed of criticising the conduct of the Chief Commissioner, and of having a regular battle with his proposals. It would also be unconstitutional, inasmuch as it would withdraw from that House the control over a considerable portion of the public expenditure.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that no pension had been awarded to Mr. Banks. Representations had been made to him that Mr. Banks, being a man of considerable literary attainments, who had devoted much time to literature, and also to the extension and encouragement of mechanics' institutes, had therefore rendered great public service; but that, from peculiar circumstances, he had been reduced to such a condition that a small grant from the Royal bounty would be well bestowed. A grant of £50 from the Royal bounty had been accordingly made; but it was not an annual pension, and did not involve any further grant.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : Sir, in the necessary absence of my right hon. Friend; (Sir G. Grey), I came down this morning to listen to this debate, and with no intention of taking part in it; but, after the remarks which have fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, I cannot well avoid offering a few observations upon the second reading of this Bill. I think it will be felt that there is nothing very tempting to any person to take part in the discussion of the church rate question. As we have been reminded, twenty-three Bills respecting it have been successively submitted to this House; and when we remember the number of fruitless debates to which they and other Motions have given rise, and, following them, the balanced vote of last Session, any person must be very sanguine who hopes to-day to lead the House to any practical conclusion in the matter. It must, be admitted, I think, that the existing operation of the law is not satisfactory. We know that in a large number of parishes the rate is absolutely refused by a majority of the vestry, and that in other parishes, where it is not refused, an even worse state of things exists—namely, that the minority in the vestry vehemently, but unsuccessfully, resist the imposition of the rate. To meet this unsatisfactory state of things two proposals are made—one being the repeal of the existing law, and reliance; upon the voluntary principle; the other, a less sweeping change in the existing law. As I understand, the Amendment may be included in the latter class; and, if it passes, the right hon. Gentleman is prepared to submit to the House a substantive proposal for a change in the existing law. He is therefore not one of those who think that the present state of things should be continued.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : That agrees very much with what I stated; for a plan may be brought forward by Resolution as well as by Bill, and I presume that such a Resolution would not be confided to mere negations, but would include some definitive plan. The right hon. Gentleman, then, is one of those who are not satisfied with the existing law, and who think that it admits of a remedy. The question is, what amendment of the law can we adopt? Now, looking at the history of the twenty-three Bills, and at the course of the discussions in this House, I confess that I despair of any such amendment being made while the present law continues; and therefore I am prepared without any hesitation to take the alternative of the voluntary system, and to vote now, as I have voted on former occasions, for the second reading of the Bill of the hon. Member for Tavistock. Supposing that the Bill passes—which does not appear to be a very proximate event—and that we have to deal with a purely voluntary system, it is not at all unlikely that plans would be proposed for establishing a voluntary system of assessment to supply the place of the present church rate. Last Session I had, perhaps, the rashness, to mention a plan which I thought would be acceptable, and, as it has just been alluded to by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for North Wilts (Mr. S. Estcourt), I will restate it to the House. My hon. Friend the Member for Tavistock (Sir J. Trelawny) has brought forward what may now be called the Japanese argument. It is said that when the Japanese ambassadors go back to their own country they will describe a monstrous and barbarous institution existing in one of the most civilized countries in Europe—namely, church rates. Now, I confess that I should question altogether the justice of that supposed opinion of the Japanese ambassadors. It does not appear to me that church rates are either a monstrous or an unintelligible institution. When church rates were established, there was but one religion in every parish in England. The whole community belonged
 1695 1696 "It is unjust and inexpedient to abolish the ancient customary right, exercised from time immemorial by the ratepayers of every parish in England, to raise by rate among themselves the sum required for the repair of their Church." 1697
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : What I said was this:—That it is not a legal right, inasmuch as it cannot be enforced by any process of law.
 MR. REMINGTON MILLS  wished to remind the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just spoken, that when the agitation against church rates first commenced, Lord Monteagle, then Mr. Spring Rice, brought in a Bill charging the amount of the church rates on ecclesiastical property. That measure was rejected only by a majority of three; and the Conservative power in the House at that time prevented its renewal. If hon. Gentleman opposite would recur to the principle of that measure, he believed they would not encounter much opposition. Since then it had been declared to be the common law of the land that a church rate could not be levied except by the will of the majority of the parishioners. But the fact was, that the population had outgrown the common law as to church rates. At the end of the 16th century there were 9,284 parishes in England, no doubt with as many churches. The population was 5,500,000; and he calculated, making a reduction of 58 per cent on the gross number of the population for those who could not attend public worship, that there was one church to every 320 persons. Taking the census of 1851, it appeared that there were 14,000 churches in England; the population was 18,000,000; and making the same reduction on that number, there were now 1,270 persons demanding admittance to every church. The accommodation the Church afforded had diminished three-fourths since the end of the 16th century in relation to the increased population. There were 10,000,000 persons for whom church accommodation ought to be provided; but the Church could only give that accommodation for 5,300,000. Consequently, there were nearly 5,000,000 persons for whom there was no accommodation whatever. The Church said it could not provide it; it could do nothing; it had no room. It was all very well to talk of common right, but common right meant common use; and if a man could not use his common right, his right was to little purpose. With regard to Churchmen themselves, they were required to pay for churches which they never entered. Though churches had increased to the number of 14,000, only four fifths of them were entitled to rates as parish churches,
 1703
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the House being anxious to come to a division—an impatience at which I am not at all surprised—I shall occupy but a very few minutes in the observations I am desirous of addressing to you. But, if I were to pass over the remarks of the hon. Gentleman, so far as they have reached this side of the House, we should go to a division with an imputation resting upon the conduct of hon. Gentlemen on this side, in reference to their dealing with this important question, which is, I think, quite undeserved. We have been reminded during this discussion that this question has occupied Parliament for now nearly thirty years, during which time twenty-three schemes have been brought forward for its solution and settlement, two of them under the auspices of Ministries of the Crown, one of those Ministries being Whig and the other Tory, and all of them; have proved wholly ineffectual to effect
 1722 1723 1724 1725 1726
 MR. BUXTON  said, he rose to second the Motion, although his views differed to a very great extent from those of the hon. Baronet. In doing so he did not hesitate to say that he was not so much influenced by either the expectation or the hope of their succeeding in abolishing church rates as by the desire, if possible, to wring from hon. Gentlemen opposite a fair compromise upon this subject before it was too late. No doubt, what had occurred last year was somewhat discouraging. There appeared at that time to be a very strong feeling on both sides of the House in favour of some arrangement being come to; and yet, after a great deal of negotiation, and after a most reasonable proposal had been made from the opposite side of the House, all proved to be of no avail, and nothing could be determined upon. But notwithstanding this, and although there were considerable difficulties in the way, he believed that every year, both on the Conservative side and on the Liberal side, there had been an increasing feeling that this was one of these questions which ought to be settled, not by violent action, but by a fair ar-
 1682 1683 1684
 MR. MACDONOGH  said, he had listened to the extraordinary speech of the Secretary for War with considerable surprise. The right hon. Gentleman had assigned some very strange reasons why the Government should abdicate their functions and refuse to bring in a Bill on this subject to tranquillize the public mind; but this abdication of their duties was the general characteristic of the course pursued by the Government throughout this Session. Last night the House was engaged up to a late hour in discussing an important measure—a
 1698 1699 1700 1701
 MR. MACDONOGH : Whichever way the proposition was phrased, it was not sustainable. Suppose the income tax were resisted in any locality for seven years, would it be said that the parties acquired an immunity by wrong, and could they then be told by a Minister of the Crown that the tax must be abolished, because it could not be levied in particular cases? Yet this was a precisely similar case. The right hon. Gentleman said a legal right does not exist because it cannot be enforced; or, rather, not that it cannot be, but is not, enforced. But there cannot be the slightest doubt, that if a majority agree to a rate, it may be recovered by law. The statute law in Ireland was clear on this point. By the 7  Geo 1702
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, it is at least interesting to the House, if not convincing, that the hon. Gentleman who has just spoken should have read an extract from the speech of a late Member of this House, now a Member of the other House, and adopted him as a great authority upon this question. I presume the hon. Gentleman would not take Lord Russell's opinion upon a great many subjects; and I presume that he will admit it is not unlikely that the opinion which Lord Russell holds in the year 1862 may at least be as wise as that which he held in 1854, inasmuch as rational opinions on a question of this
 1705 1706 1707 History of the Anglo-Saxons 1708 1709 1710 from the Opposition benches 1711 1712 1713 1714 1715
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY , in replying,
 1727
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  said, he must once again ask for the patience of the House while he brought under its notice the Bill which he asked the House to read a second time that day. When he considered that this measure had in former times received a large amount of support, had had large majorities in its favour, and that gradually it lost its supporters, until on a division it was actually defeated, he might possibly feel discouraged on the present occasion, were it not that he derived great comfort and consolation from this consideration—that their defeat was in fact their own act; for it must not be forgotten that on the back of the Bill which was introduced last year, with a view to a compromise of this question, stood the names of several Liberal Members, and that considerable division existed on that (the Liberal) side of the House. His hon. Friends seemed to have been led away by the vain hope of effecting some satisfactory compromise, which they must now see had become wholly impracticable. He had considered the grounds upon which his right hon. Friend the Member for North Wilts (Mr. Sotheron Estcourt) could logically oppose him. He could not logically oppose him on the ground that no legislation was necessary, because he him-
 1675 1676 1677 Lives of Engineers 1678 "The viear of Bitton is one of those men, who, if you placed him in the deserts of Arabia, would, I believe, have half-a-dozen churches up about him in little more than that number of years. I am afraid to say how many he has built in the parish of Bitten, which was once as bad as Arabia; but I think I am correct in stating that he found it with one, and that he has managed to add four or five others, and by the time he is gathered to his fathers as many more will, I expect, stand as monuments of his untiring, his unconquerable zeal. Where he gets or got the money for them all, Heaven knows, I do not; but I should say he must have been a most intrepid beggar and indefatigable man to do what he has done. He restored the mother church, he rebuilt Oldland, perched a pretty new chapel on Jeffries' Hill, and planted another among the coalpits of Kingswood. He rubs on, enlarging the borders of the Church while others are squabbling about her; erecting altars, while others are fighting about turning their faces toward or from them." Saturday Review "Of all the monographs of churches which have fallen under our notice, we have not seen one of greater artistic interest than Mr. Street's description of Stone Church in Kent—a building which has been fortunate in falling into such good hands, both for its written history and its material restoration. This Kentish village church is well known to antiquarians and architects for its
 1679 The Gentleman's Magazine "The arches appear to have been clumsily repaired, for they incline a little to the north and south of the nave, and to prevent them from falling they are connected by unseemly iron braces, bolted through the spandrels. The windows and aisles are of churchwarden insertion, ugly and round-headed, and each window is a perfect caricature. All have wooden frames, with large panes of glass. A monument there is of Stephen Hutehens—'He hath given £100 towards the repairing and beautifying this church.'" 1680 1681
 MR. DILLWYN  said, that the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had placed church rates and tithes in the same category, whereas they stood upon entirely different principles. The tithe was a rent-charge, enforced by a distinct and recognised principle of law, whereas church rates were little better than an illusory possession. The desirability of having a compromise had been urged on both sides of the House; in his opinion, however, the advances, if a compromise Was to be made, should be made by the Conservative party. Her Majesty's Government had very little encouragement to propose such a compromise, as their own supporters were nearly unanimous in favour of total abolition; while the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Bucks, with all his power of rhetoric, had not been able to induce his party to combine in support of a measure which he understood was to proceed from that side of the
 1721
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he thought the hon. Gentleman had risen to second the Motion of the hon. Baronet for the second reading of the Bill; but he would put it to the House whether the logical conclusion of that speech ought not to have been that he would vote in favour of the Resolution which he (Mr. Estcourt) had placed upon the paper. In making that observation he intended no disrespect towards his hon. Friend—on the contrary, he was glad to find that his hon. Friend's opinion was so much in accordance with his own. The hon. Baronet, who had been his consistent, but courteous, opponent upon this question, had fairly interpreted his intention in not, as in former years, meeting the Motion with a direct negative. He desired to keep open the opportunity of settlement which in the course of last Session presented itself, and they had now come to a point of the discussion when the matter was likely to be treated in a more business-like way than had hitherto been adopted. He observed that his hon. Friend seemed to draw a distinction between the clergy and the Church. This he could not understand—they might as well try to separate the officers from the army. For instance, the hon. Baronet spoke of the enforcement of the payment of church rates being an exercise of tyrannical power oh the part of the clergy, as though it was for their own benefit, whereas, in fact, the rate was the result of a vote of a majority of the parishioners in order to carry out an object in which they conceived they had a common interest. The hon. Baronet had also created a confusion between the restoration
 1685 1686 1687 pro tanto 1688 1689 1690 "That it is unjust and inexpedient to abolish the ancient customary right, exercised from time immemorial by the ratepayers of every parish in England, to raise by rate among themselves the sums required for the repair of their Church, until some other provision shall have been made by Parliament for the discharge of those obligations to which, by custom or statute, the churchwardens, on the part of the parish, are liable." 1691 1692 1693
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, that what he stated was, that he was disposed to recommend proceeding with the subject by a Bill, if the measure were to come from the Government; but that a private Member could best deal with it by way of Resolution, and that he should himself be prepared to propose a substantive Resolution, if no other Member undertook that duty.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, every one who has heard the speech of the hon. Member for Birmingham will allow that I am justified in making two remarks on it. The first is, that all the arguments of the hon. Member are applicable as much to the payment of tithes as the payment of church rates; and the other is, that he forgot, as all who take his line on this question are prone to do, that the Church of England is essentially the poor man's church. There is no place of worship belonging to the Church of England throughout the land which the poor man is not at all times free to enter without payment of any kind; and that forms one of the grounds on which we rest our vindication of the rates. The hon. Member applied to us the designation of political Churchmen. I might, with more reason, speak of him and his friends as political Dissenters. I must take exception to the answer which the hon. Member for Birmingham made, upon the quotation which my hon. Friend the Member for Sussex (Major Barttelot) made from a speech delivered some years ago by Lord John Russell. The hon. Member observed that the noble Lord had as good a right to an opinion in 1862 as in 1854. My objection is that the answer does not apply. The noble Lord has never told us that he has changed his opinion. The complaint I made against the noble Lord is that he has changed his vote—that he has changed his conduct, but that he has never changed his opinions. ["Oh !"] At least, he never told the House that his views had undergone an alteration. In the same speech, I believe, to which reference has been made, the noble Lord used words which have already been verified in a remarkable degree. He said, "I do not think that a general who has to defend a fortress is apt to say, 'I will abandon the outworks, and then the citadel will be safe.' "Those words involved a great principle, and again and again the noble Lord, as the leading champion in this House of church rates, uttered that warning. There are points, however, in the speech of the hon. Member for Birmingham in which I heartily agree. I am glad to hear from his lips a distinct declaration that he desires a settlement of this question. I join most cordially in that wish. The subject is painful. It is inconsistent with the interests of religion, and fraught with acrimony and bad feeling.
 1717 "What we require is, that when the present incumbent shall depart this life, the successor shall not be appointed, and that the funds should be sequestrated to the use of the civil Government." Nonconformist's Sketch Book 1718 "The Church of England is an image carved with marvellous cunning, tricked out in solemn vestments, a part woven by human fancy, a part stolen from the chest of truth—an image, we repeat, an outside semblance, a counterfeit…empty, without heart, destitute of any well-spring of vitality…Kings, nobles, and bishops under the sanction, and on the behalf of their Church, perpetuate a thousand enormities, violate every maxim of religion, degrade, insult, harass, imprison—regard neither justice nor mercy in their pursuit of pelf. An attention to rites for the performance of which fees may be exacted—heartless formality—a blind, unreasoning, ignorant superstitious obedience to the priesthood—payment of tithes and Easter offerings and church rates—these are the great objects of our Establishment. To shatter this image, and give the dust of it to the four winds of heaven…is the sacred mission of Protestant Dissenting ministers." Christian's Penny Magazine 1719 1720
 SIR PERCY BURRELL  rose to support the Amendment, and to enter his protest against dragging into this discussion matters which had nothing whatever to do with the question under discussion. The law relating to this subject was founded upon the common law, and that was founded upon the principles of common sense and justice. He wished to express his disapproval of the attempts to treat this
 1716
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  said, that the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for North Wilts showed that they on that (the Opposition) side of the House were open to compromise, and he thought that some proposition ought to come from the Government bench. They stood in a very different position now with regard to the question from that which they occupied some years ago. The opinion out of doors formerly was widely different from what it was now. Circumstances had occurred and language had been used which had had the effect of shaking the strong opinion held by certain classes who were in favour of total abolition, and now the general desire was that some compromise should be effected. The large and populous towns—such as Birmingham, Manchester, and Leeds, which were as distinct as possible from the agricultural districts—had so far settled the question that they had abolished church rates as far as they were themselves concerned. These places, therefore, had no grievance to complain of. Then, taking the case of towns of from 5,000 to 10,000 inhabitants, in which, if any grievance existed, it was
 1704 "We have a national Church—we have an hereditary aristocracy—we have an hereditary monarchy; and all these things stand together. My opinion is, too, that they would decay and fall together. I see no reason why we should prefer to these institutions those of the United States of America; and I must therefore oppose this Bill, as, in my opinion, tending to subvert one of the great institutions of the State."—[3  Hansard
 MR. DIGBY SEYMOUR  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether his attention has been called to a statement in the newspapers that a child of the name of Thomas, aged nine years, was lately fined £5 11 s
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  replied, that the Government had not hitherto come to any decision on the Report of the Cadastral Survey Committee, but as at present advised they had no intention of bringing in any Supplementary Estimate on the subject.
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, he believed that it would, but he could not at the moment speak positively upon that point.
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, that the Delhi and Lucknow prize-money was at present being paid in India. In order that it might be paid to those officers and men who had returned from India, it would be necessary that the Prize Rolls should be sent to this country; they would be forwarded immediately, and the money would then be paid under the terms of the Act of Parliament. The Indian Government had taken steps for having the Rolls prepared in the shortest possible time; and the Commanding Officers of Regiments in India had been directed to send them in within a fornight from the 21st of March last. With respect to those officers whose head-quarters were in India, and who were absent on leave in this country, they would be required to produce certificates that they had not received the money in India.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought the object of the clause a very good one; but be wished to know how the right hon. Gentleman meant to work that part of the clause which required from the engineer "satisfactory evidence of his sobriety, experience, and general good conduct on board ship." How long, in what manner, and in what capacity must an engineer have served at sea before going up for his examination? The conditions ought to be defined and made clear.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, that the clause would not impose upon shipowners the necessity of employing a particular engineer any more than the law which already required the examination of masters and mates, and which had been generally approved of, imposed upon them the necessity of employing a particular master or mate. Therefore while on the one hand the clause offered a great boon to shipowners, it on the other gave necessary protection to the public.
 MR. HENLEY  said, there was a difference between the cases of masters and mates and engineers. The former must have learned their business at sea; but the engineers went to sea from the mechanic's shop. If the right hon. Gentleman had not made up his mind on the point, he might postpone the clause and bring it up on a future day.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was satisfied with the right hon. Gentleman's Amendment.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the apprenticeship; of an engineer must be served on shore. He must have mechanical knowledge, which he could only acquire in a workshop,; and there was no reason for giving a monopoly to the inferior officers of merchant steamers merely because they had been to sea.
 MR. DIGBY SEYMOUR  said, that the question as to how far the Board of Trade were in future to undertake the function of inquiring into the alleged misconduct of masters and mates in the merchant service was properly raised on the tenth clause. Upon that point great dissatisfaction prevailed in the mercantile marine. Under the existing law the Board of Trade had the power of investigating any charge before two justices or a stipendiary magistrate, with a view of determining whether the certificate should be cancelled. The operation of that law was as follows:—A report of the investigation was sent to the; Board of Trade, and upon that report they decided the question without examining any more witnesses. The Mercantile Shipping Committee had addressed a very strong remonstrance on this subject to the Board of Trade. He would suggest that the proper tribunal to refer these inquiries to was the local marine board, and that where appeals should be necessary they should be made to the High Court of Admiralty, assisted by the Trinity Masters, where the proceedings would be conducted before the public. The Board of Trade had given up their power of suspending the certificates of masters and mates, but by the Bill they would have an appellate jurisdiction. He thought that no tribunal
 1754
 MR. HENLEY  said, he held that the clause would add another to the curious anomalies which already existed. Nautical questions, with which the local marine boards had some acquaintance, were sent before a magistrate, who know nothing about them, and the Boards were restricted to cases of immorality or drunkenness. Some of the proceedings to take place under the Bill savoured too much of the Inquisition. It was monstrous also that a master or mate should be compelled, under pain of fine or imprisonment, to answer a series of searching questions which might criminate him. As to the engineers, any question relating to their professional conduct should be judged by a scientific person.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he wished to ask for an explanation of the clause. It proposed to apply the third part of the principal Act, with the exception of certain clauses, to all sea-going ships exclusively employed in fishing on the coasts of the United Kingdom. The interpretation clause of the principal Act defined "ship" as a vessel not propelled by oars. He wished to know whether the clause would extend to every fishing-boat which ever hoisted a sail.
 MR. HENLEY  asked, whether the clause would be confined to decked vessels?
 MR. HENLEY  said, he could not say he was satisfied. The clause related to many other things besides agreements between masters and men, and the introduction of the word "registered" would not meet the difficulty. For instance, he wished to know whether fishermen taking apprentices would come under the Act, and whether they would thus have to make those returns about their crews which were required from sea-going vessels.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he intended to move an Amendment; but as the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth (Mr. Collier) had also an Amendment upon the same subject, he would defer his own for a time. His intention was to deprive magistrates of the power of suspending or cancelling the certificates of masters or mates, because before magistrates no charge was preferred, and therefore the parties were not put upon their defence.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the right hon. Gentleman had answered by anticipation the substance of his Amendment, but he wished to test the accuracy of his figures. From the wreck returns of the last three years—
 MR. HENLEY  said, it was not usual to deal with returns other than those of which the House was in possession. From the wreck returns of the last three years it appeared that out of the total number of 3,965 wrecks and casualties the Board of Trade had only seen fit to order sixty-six inquiries, or at the rate of one inquiry out of sixty casualties. The right hon. Gentleman, therefore, had no right to put into his mouth a statement which he had never made, that the captain, or mate, was put on his trial for every loss. The right hon. Gentleman stated that these inquiries were in the nature of an inquest; but at inquests it was not usual to subject the man accused of murder to cross-questioning and cross-examination; he was told he might stand aside and be silent if he liked. The magistrates and assessors, moreover, were not to inquire and report merely, but actually to pronounce sentence; and everybody knew that an inquiry was conducted in quite a different spirit when it was prelimi-
 1759
 MR. HENLEY  said, he had now heard for the first time, and with great surprise, that masters and mates were satisfied with the existing system. Certainly, when he was at the Board of Trade, a very large deputation waited on him, and expressed the greatest dissatisfaction with the tribunal. He had been misunderstood when it was supposed that he desired that there should be a second trial after an investigation had been held; what he had endeavoured to impress upon the Committee was, that these investigations all turned upon the conduct of the masters and mates, and it was immaterial to say that an inquiry so conducted was not the same thing as a trial. He thought it would be more satisfactory if the court were constituted with more than one naval assessor.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was glad the right hon. Gentleman had made so important a concession as that of allowing a second assessor. All that he desired was that the master and mate should be put properly on their defence. If he gave an assurance on that point, he would not press his Amendment. He thought that the power of examination should be limited, and that the person respecting whom the examination was made should be present at it.
 MR. DIGBY SEYMOUR  said, that it was a very common practice to examine and cross-examine the master. He thought, if a power of appeal was granted, it ought to be to some public tribunal.
 COLONEL CLIFFORD  said, that in his district the question was not one of changing the status of pilots, but a question of annihilation. The Isle of Wight pilots would find pilotage abolished. After all, the pilotage was no burden on the shipowner, as in the end it fell on the consumer; and he doubted the economy of the abolition, for the loss of one cargo of great value would cover an immensity of pilotage charges.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the desultory course the debate had taken had made it difficult for him to understand what they were really debating about. No hon. Gentleman, with the exception of the Member for Liverpool, had dealt with the subject immediately before them. After the speech he had just heard, all doubt he might have had about voting for the clause was swept away. Whether pilotage ought to be compulsory or not he would give no opinion, but it was plain that that was a very grave question and one involving the liability of the shipowner for damage done. He had never known a question of such serious importance disposed of by provisional orders, and his hon. Friend might well doubt whether Liverpool would be safe under the Bill. He (Mr. Henley) did not like the system of provisional orders to be extended beyond due limits; and he thought the Bill went beyond that. The clause affected interests secured under charters and Acts of Parliament; and even with the Amendment which the right hon. Gentleman proposed for sending the matter to a Select Committee, the questions at issue were too large and too important to be safely dealt with by provisional orders. As far as he could see, he did not know what abuses the Bill dealt with, unless, indeed, compulsory pilotage was regarded as an abuse.
 MR. HENLEY  asked, why it was necessary to give the clerks to the Solicitor to the Customs, who was a well paid officer, the power to appear in court as counsel or attorney. It was hard enough to have legal proceedings instituted by a Government office, but harder still to have the proceedings conducted without those forms and regularities which professional men knew so well how to exact. There were many hundreds of penalties, and, unless he heard some good reason, he should vote for the omission of the clause.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought the clause should be struck out.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he wished to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade to the effect of the clause. It proposed that where any man was informed of or indicted, it should be sufficient to state the number of the section of the Act under which the indictment or information was made, instead of stating the offence. Now, they would find that one of the sections of the Act contained no less than fifty-one separate offences; and suppose an unfortunate man should be informed against, and the case should be conducted, not by a professional man, but by a Customs clerk, what a position would he not be in, and what a nice position the magistrates would be in, who would be called upon to decide the case on a clause which contained several offences, for every one of which there was a penalty attached to the extent of £100. There were other clauses relating to misdemeanors which were highly objectionable, but as these clauses would be postponed he would not say more than that he thought they must have been shoved in by the Solicitor of the Customs, who said, "Here are a number of clauses; never mind the offences so that we have somebody to convict." But that would be a sharp way of doing business, and he believed the right hon. Gentleman could not know what the effect of these clauses would be. As to Clause 63, which would enable magistrates to send doubtful cases to the Superior Courts, he thought it ought to be extended to those persons who might he convicted on information or indictment.
 LORD NAAS  said, that while he was himself favourable to the principle of superannuation generally, he thought the present proposal too novel in its character to be hastily adopted. Neither Mr. Power nor Mr. Senior, when before the Select Committee, had suggested any such measure as the present, and the country, therefore, which saw in that House a decided tendency to increase local taxation, would be taken by surprise. He hoped, therefore, that the right hon. Gentleman would postpone the Bill, so as to give the people of Ireland an opportunity of considering its provisions.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that he must protest against the eccentric manner in which the Bills connected with Irish legislation during the present Session had been proceeded with. At the same time, he thought the Irish Members had exhibited much patience. He begged to move the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, that the natural consequence of the present most unjust law was that the shipowner was obliged to take a pilot; and so long as he was obliged to take a pilot he must be necessarily relieved of any liability for accidents which might arise when the vessel was in the charge of such pilot. With respect to the present clauses, he objected to them because they did not go far enough. He wished to see it left to the shipowner's discretion to take a pilot or not, according to his judgment; and he would remind the Committee that the sense of responsibility resting upon the masters would always induce them to take a pilot where it was necessary. The present law on the subject of pilotage was anomalous, inconsistent, and incomprehensible, and was founded neither on justice nor reason. There were some cases, as in the Bristol Channel for instance, where, one pilot being quite sufficient to do the work, the shipowner was compelled to employ two. Danger arose from the system of compulsory pilotage, and he knew at least one instance in which a ship had struck through stopping to take on board a pilot. If a ship was bound from Newport or Cardiff dawn Channel, the same pilot who takes her out of her own port is not allowed to take her out of danger, but at a given place a Bristol pilot steps on board and supersedes him, notwithstanding that there might be a gale of wind blowing, and the vessel might be in the most imminent danger, in order that the privileges of the Bristol pilot might not be interfered with. It was also absurd to allow the captain of a ship having a valuable cargo on board from any port in the Baltic to enter the port of London without employing a pilot; while the same captain, bringing the same vessel with an equally valuable cargo of wine from Oporto or Lisbon, could not enter the port of London without being compelled to employ a pilot. Again, though coasters are exempt from compulsory pilotage, a vessel returning home in ballast from the Port of London to the North is obliged to take a pilot at Gravesend as far as Orfordness, though the captain may be thoroughly competent to conduct his ship. The pilotage charges pressed very heavily on the small class of ship-owners, who were the least able to bear
 1767
 MR. LIDDELL  said, that he was surprised that no provision was inserted in the Bill giving to some authority a greater power to deal summarily with cases of desertion. The Select Committee recommended that such a power should be lodged in the hands of the shipping master.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he should not have risen but for the expressions used by the hon. Member for Sunder-land (Mr. Lindsay), which must give very unnecessary pain to that very valuable body of men, the pilots of this country. Whatever opinions might be entertained as to the abolition of the present system, nobody had alleged that the pilots did not give satisfaction to those who employed them, except the hon. Member for Sunderland; and even that hon. Gentleman must have often congratulated himself that his property at sea was in the hands of good and faithful pilots. Yet that hon. Member had asserted that under the compulsory system this class of men were indolent and inattentive, and that they must be placed under the non-compulsory system before they could be kept up to their work. He
 1777
 LORD HOTHAM  said, he had stated distinctly that in speaking of the number of accidents he was guided altogether by the information which he had received. He would make inquiry, and admit his error if he found that he had unintentionally put forward any misstatement. After the strong opinions which hon. Members had expressed with regard to compulsory pilotage, he was surprised that none of them had proposed clausesgiving effect to those views.
 LORD HOTHAM  said, he should oppose the clause, his object being that the subject of pilotage should not be included in the Bill. The measure under consideration might be taken as the offspring of the Committee of 1860. Now, although the question of pilotage formed a separate item in the Report of that Committee, yet the only inquiry made into it was by questions put in the cross-examination of the hon. Member for Sunderland. So superficial, indeed, was the inquiry, that from the two great estuaries of the Mersey and the Humber not a single witness was summoned before the Committee. Pilotage had always been considered a matter of national concern, and accordingly steps had been taken to keep up an adequate supply of competent pilots at various points on our coasts. Three years ago a new Pilotage Board was formed at Liverpool, to which was committed not only the old docks of Liverpool, but likewise the new and important docks of Birkenhead. It was called the Mersey Docks and Harbour Board. Now, a body of that description, consisting as it did of commercial men of high and independent position, was, he contended, quits as well able to conduct satisfactorily the pilotage of the Mersey as the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade could pos-
 1765
 MR. AYRTON  remarked, that the clause delivered passengers up to captains in a somewhat summary manner. If such powers were to be given at all, they should be given with great precision, so that passengers might not be subjected to unnecessary annoyance.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he wished to ask for some information as to the object of the clause.
 MR. AYRTON  said, the clause had nothing to do with British shipping, and ought to be omitted. He protested against such an off-hand mode of dealing with great legal principles. Any passenger on board a foreign ship might be prosecuted for an offence under the clause, while every one else on board was not liable; and if the question happened to be one of assault, he would have no means of obtaining the attendance of witnesses from on board a foreign ship to show that he was first assaulted, and that all he did was to act in self-defence. It was not clear whether the offence was intended to mean an offence against English law, or against the law of the country which claimed jurisdiction over the vessel where the transaction occurred. At least, there should be some reciprocal treaties with foreign countries before such a sweeping clause was adopted.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he should support the Amendment. Under the operation of the clause as it stood, goods might be hustled on the wharves without the consignee being aware of their arrival. He would suggest that a certain time should be specified in the bill of lading, within which the merchant should take charge of his goods, instead of using the word "forthwith."
 MR. AYRTON  said, that he trusted, before the right hon. Gentleman extended such an anomalous and fantastic system to another class of the community, he would seriously consider the consequences. It would be establishing a system of close courts, quite contrary to the English law, which expressly declared that no man should be deprived of his character and his living without a fair trial.
 MR. AYRTON  thought such great powers as the clause gave should not be vested in one magistrate only. He thought the magisterial court ought to be strengthened.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he shared in the astonishment which had been expressed at
 1761
 MR. AYRTON  said, he must repeat his objection to the clause, that it introduced a new principle. It was the first time an Act of Parliament invested the Crown with the power of determining whether a man should be at liberty to carry on his own business. It was the greatest condemnation of the much-lauded principle of free trade that could be pronounced. There was no reason for requiring the proposed examination that would not equally apply to engineers of railways, mines, and engineers in general. If it was the opinion of shipowners that the engineers ought to be raised to the standard of a professional class, a clear explanation ought to be given of what was intended to be done. It was a startling fact that the shipowners could not manage their business for themselves, like the owners of mines and railways.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he wished to ask upon what principle the proposal with respect to engineers, embodied in the clause, was based. It was the first time, he believed, that the Crown had undertaken the singular duty of determining the efficiency and qualifications of any body of persons engaged in carrying on their own private business. Not only were engineers who were candidates for service on board merchant steamers required to undergo an examination, and to be certified, but the whole operation was to be under the absolute control and discretion of the Board of Trade. The proposal involved so great a departure from recognised principles, that the right hon. Gentleman was called upon to give some explanations as to the grounds of the change.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he thought that compulsory pilotage should be abolished. At St. Ives there were no licensed pilots, and he was informed by those who were well acquainted with the subject that there was no difficulty there in obtaining pilots or assistance to vessels in distress, while at Penzance, where there were licensed pilots, the same readiness was not exhibited.
 MR. LAYARD  said, the questions of, his hon. Friend related to a great variety of points. His hon. Friend wished to know, in the first place, what steps the Government had taken towards the punishment of the parties privy to the fitting out in Liverpool of the slaver  Nightingale 1746 1747
 MR. BUXTON  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, What steps the Government have taken towards the punishment of the parties privy to the fitting out for the slave trade, in Liverpool, in November, 1860, of the slaver  Nightingale engagés 1745
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that for many years great anxiety had been manifested on the part of some Members of that House that there should be frequent inquiries into the causes of loss of life at sea; and it having been suggested to the Board of Trade that many casualties took place because ships went to sea in an unsea-worthy condition, they determined, when the Merchant Shipping Act was passed, to put an end to the reproach that such cases escaped notice. It was determined that the officers of the Customs and the Coast Guard should always, in the first instance, take up the case where it occurred; and so far as he knew or believed, in every case of loss of life on the coast since the passing of that Act, there had been immediate local inquiry instituted under a competent person on the part of the Government. The result of these inquiries was communicated to the Board of Trade; and if the circumstances were such as seemed to render a public inquiry necessary, the case, was investigated and evidence taken before a sti-
 1760
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  sad, that the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Collier) stated that the shipping interest was that to be principally considered m this matter; but that there was, above and beyond all, a public interest, on behalf of which, as well as on behalf of the import ant body of pilots whom he represented, he asked leave to make a few observations. There were three principal objections urged against the present pilotage system. First, that under it prevailed certain anomalies and inconveniences; secondly, that among persons qualified to pilot vessels, there ought to be free competition, just as among butchers, bakers, and such like tradesmen; and thirdly, that upon the east coast and elsewhere a voluntary system of pilotage did exist, and answered so well that it might well be made general. And this afforded the solution of the question he had often asked himself in wonder, why he found the hon. Member for Norfolk (Mr. Bentinck) leading the attack upon what he was pleased to call the monopoly of the present system? His hon. Friend the opponent of monopoly, the champion of free trade! He put it to the House, when they found his hon. Friend—the last living Protectionist—the man who preferred wars to treaties of
 1769 quasi 1770 1771 1772
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he was glad to find that one hon. Member had been added to the band of Protectionists; for a more determined Protectionist speech he had never heard. His hon. Friend, however, had taken an exaggerated view of the question. All that was proposed was, that vessels should not be compelled to take pilots under circumstances where they were not required, and that every competent man might have it open to him, upon passing an examination and obtaining the proper certificate, to act as pilot. The hon. Member for Sandwich had forgotten, that although by the Bill powers were given to the Government to deal with abuses that might be hereafter shown to exist, yet that no decision affecting local or vested interests could be taken without again coming to the House. As he had been wrongly supposed to have impugned on a former occasion the pilotage of Liverpool, he would take that opportunity of saying that the pilot system of that port was admirably conducted. There was a sufficient number of pilots, they possessed excellent vessels, and they were always forthcoming in the worst weather. One gross and glaring abuse of the present system ought to be remedied. A ship was compelled to take a pilot; and as long as he was on board, and the vessel was in narrow waters, the owner was exempted from all liability for accidents. If the vessel ran down another, the owner of the vessel so injured had no remedy or ground of action, except against the pilot. The Trinity pilots had a fund among themselves, so that if one of their number were proceeded against for damages, his wife and family were maintained while he went to prison and was "whitewashed." The question really seemed to be whether the safety of the ship or the interest of the pilot was the principal consideration. It used to be supposed that pilots were made for ships; but as they were now dealing with the question, it appeared as if ships were made for pilots. He believed that in places where pilotage was voluntary the service was better done, and at a cheaper rate, than where a compulsory pilotage existed.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he agreed with; the hon. Member for Pontefract (Mr. Childers) for this reason—no one would like to have for an engineer on board ship a man who had never been to sea. If the men were not required to have certificates in order to act as assistant engineers, it was quite clear that they would have ample opportunity for learning their sea-going; duties.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  said, he thought more time was required for the consideration of the Bill, and he should therefore support the Motion for an adjournment.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he should support the Bill. The effect of the clause might be to introduce the thin end of the wedge, as it was called, into the system of
 1773
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he also concurred in the expediency of omitting the clause. He would also suggest that before the Bill was reported the right hon. Gentleman should consider the propriety of extending the power of inquiry to the case of wrecks off the coasts of British possessions.
 MR. CHILDERS  suggested that the word "registered" should be inserted before "sea-going ship exclusively employed in fishing."
 MR. CHILDERS  suggested that the Amendment should be withdrawn then, and brought forward at some future time, in an altered form.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he would express a doubt whether either the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Henley) or the President of the Board of Trade fully understood the effect of the clause. They seemed to suppose that every engineer in a steamer would be required by the clause to have passed an examination. But that was not in the least the effect of the clause. By the fourth clause, the first and second engineers of every foreign-going ship would be required to pass an examination; but every such ship had six or seven engineers. Again, with respect to ordinary passenger ships, only the first and second, out of a body of six or seven engineers, would be required to pass an examination; and as to vessels of less than 100-horse power, only the first engineer would have to pass an examination. The practical result would be, that not more than a third or a fourth of the engineers employed in the merchant service would be required to pass an examination. Therefore he thought it would be inexpedient not to require the small proportion of engineers who would need these certificates to give some proof of their general good conduct on board ship.
 MR. CLAY  was convinced that the clauses under discussion, though they did not propose to abolish compulsory pilotage, would lead to that result. He would not now argue whether the change would be right or wrong; but he thought that a question of that magnitude ought not to be decided by clauses which did not pretend to decide it, or without being preceded by an inquiry.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, it might suit the youthful energy of the noble Lord to go on with Irish Bills at two o'clock in the morning, but he had not the power to do it. It was quite a new principle to superannuate Government officers after only ten years' service and the subject ought to be discussed.
 MR. BAGWELL  said, the House wished for some explanation of the measure from the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary for Ireland. Unhappily, transactions which had recently taken place in his own neighbourhood would prevent him from opposing the Bill, though, in his opinion, it would be totally ineffectual. The only
 1782
 MR. BLAKE  said, he rose to second the Amendment. He deeply deplored the murders which had recently been committed; but that the Bill would not prevent the commission of such crimes was proved by the fact that in Tipperary assassinations had taken place in districts which had been proclaimed for many years. All that was required was a reorganization of the police force.
 MR. BLAKE  said, the rumours of dissensions in the Government were certainly strengthened by what had taken place that evening. The noble Lord at the head of the Government had been unable to take more than a few minutes' repose without finding when he woke up the hon. Member for Sandwich (Mr. Knatchbull-Hugesseii) in fierce contest with the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade. If that right hon. Gentleman did not consent to an inquiry into the effect of the clauses, he might be responsible for heavy losses to life and property which he would regret to the end of his days. Until harbours of refuge were established, there could be nothing more important than an adequate supply of skilled pilots. But the tendency of particular clauses of the Bill was to discourage this useful class.
 1774
 MR. BRADY  said, he had hoped his hon. Friend would have opposed the Bill. The inefficiency of a measure was a strange ground for supporting it. The police were ineffective because they were a military body. Crime was more prevalent in England than in Ireland. Why, then, should such a measure be passed with regard to Ireland only? Ireland ought to be treated as England. Such a law was an insult to Ireland. He moved that the Bill be read a second time that day six months.
 MR. GEORGE  said, he should oppose the Bill on the ground that it introduced the principle of union rating. He urged the right hon. Baronet to postpone the measure at that hour.
 MR. LOCKE  said, his objection to the clause was that it would permit a ship-owner to land goods on a wharf without giving notice of the ship's arrival to the consignee, and enabling him to take his goods from the ship. By the custom of the port of London for several centuries, every consignee of goods brought into it was entitled to forty-eight hours' notice to take them out of the vessel in
 1780
 MR. O'BRIEN  also condemned the murders which had been committed in Ireland, but he was convinced that this Bill would have no effect in preventing the commission of similar crimes in the future.
 MR. R. HODGSON  said, he hoped the clause would not be omitted.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, that a similar provision had been in operation in some of the colonies with the best result, and no objection had been made to it.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he thought that the noble Lord would do well not to press the House on the point of compulsory pilotage, which had attracted a great deal of public attention. It would be better for the noble Lord to join the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade in bringing the question before the House in the manner proposed by those clauses. If his noble Friend should persist in going to a division, and if he gained a victory, the only consequence would be more excitement than there was at present, and the question would be brought forward in a more aggravated form. There was no doubt that the system of compulsory pilotage had arisen from a desire on the part of our Government to protect the mercantile wealth of the country on the dangerous waters which surround our coast; but since the repeal of the Navigation Laws, and the skill and scientific knowledge of navigators had increased, there was less necessity for that system. All that the clauses now objected to sought to do was to provide a means of applying the knowledge of the Board of Trade to those cases, and he hoped his right hon. Friend would either abolish compulsory pilotage or preserve the Bill as it stood. The hardships which had been referred to in the course of the debate, and the remarks of Dr. Lushington in a recent judgment, showed the necessity of a remedy for the existing state of things.
 MR. COLLIER  said, that the clauses were very valuable; and although they did not amount to an abolition of compulsory pilotage, he hoped that they would lead to it. Some hon. Gentlemen seemed to think that there had been no inquiry upon the subject; but the fact was, that the question had been examined by a Committee, presided over by the hon. Member for Sunderland, who took a great deal of evidence, and reported that they had arrived at the conclusion that a system of voluntary pilotage might safely be established in most parts of the empire. They added that where such a system now existed pilots were more abundant and efficient, and the rates were generally lower than those which prevailed where pilotage was compulsory.
 MR. COLLIER  said, he would recommend the postponement of the clause; because it had a much wider application than
 1764
 MR. COLLIER  said, his proposition was to simplify the law. As it stood at present, in some cases the local marine board had the jurisdiction of granting and suspending certificates; in others the magistrates. In each case there was an appeal, practically, to the Board of Trade. What he proposed was that the jurisdiction should be given exclusively either
 1762
 MR. COLLIER  said, that provision was made for the trial of cases under the Act by the local marine board, by magistrates, by the Naval Board, and by the Admiralty Court, and other courts and tribunals. The suspension of a master or mate was a matter more peculiarly within the cognizance of the local marine board than two justices, and therefore the jurisdiction should be intrusted to the former. He proposed to strike the word "magistrates" out of the clause.
 MR. COLLIER , observed, that there was a great deal in what had fallen from his learned Friend; but he thought they might pass the clause without determining the question he had raised. There was much inconvenience in the law as it stood, on account of the concurrent jurisdiction of the several courts of inquiry.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the clause did that which, as he understood, his hon. and learned Friend desired. He understood him to say that the local marine board ought to be the tribunal to investigate the conduct of engineers, as well as of captains and mates. If an engineer were charged with drunkenness, the local marine board would be quite competent to try such a charge by itself; and if they found that it was true, the Board of Trade could withdraw his certificate of sobriety. When it was a charge of incompetency from want of professional knowledge, he agreed with the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire, the local marine board ought to have the assistance of engineering assessors. As the clause, however, only applied to engineers, whatever provisions might be made as to captains and mates, it would be convenient to reserve the gene-
 1755
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, when the Merchant Shipping Act passed, the owners of fishing-vessels desired to be exempted from its provisions, but they had recently made application that they might be brought within the operation of certain provisions of the Act which related to discipline and questions of wages—to place, in fact, all sea-going fishing vessels under the same law as merchant vessels. In fact, the object of the clause was nothing more than to enable sailors to recover their wages by a summary mode against owners and captains; and, on the other hand, captains and owners would have a summary remedy against sailors,
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that the object of the clause was merely to enable agreements between masters and men to be enforced by a cheap and summary process, and that in respect to such an object it could make no difference whether a vessel was decked or open. No doubt it would
 1756
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he could give no further explanation, but he would consider the propriety of inserting the word "registered," which would limit the operation of the clause to vessels of fifteen tons and upwards, in bringing up the Report.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  did not exactly concur with the hon. Member for Liverpool in his approval of the maxim, that freight is the mother of wages. The sailor was not a partner with the owner, but the servant of the owner; If a ship was lost, the sailor ought not to suffer the loss of his wages. He engaged to serve the owner for wages, and was entitled to be paid for those services during the time his services were rendered. If sailors abandoned their vessels unnecessarily, the law could be enforced against them.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he could not assent to the Amendment. The inquiry before magistrates was in the nature of an inquest, to ascertain the causes of any casualty, but in the course of that inquiry it might appear that misconduct on die part of the master or mate had led to the misfortune. In an inquiry, instituted with the twofold object of ascertaining the causes of a wreck and the conduct of the officers, it was necessary that it should be conducted in a judicial spirit. To combine the necessary nautical knowledge with a just protection of the interests of those inculpated by the inquiry, a nautical assessor and a magistrate were selected to constitute the tribunal. The cases ought not to be referred to the local marine boards, because the persons composing them were often shipowners, who might themselves be interested parties, if the origin of the casualty in any way turned upon the unseaworthiness of the ship. For these reasons he must decline to leave out the word "magistrates." With regard to the remark made by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley), he thought it would be very unjust to prefer a criminal charge in the first instance against the master of a ship, because the Crown would then be bound to follow up the inquiry in the spirit of a prosecution. Great advantages had resulted from these preliminary inquiries. Lights had been put upon stations where the necessity for them would never have been discovered but for the information
 1758
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  observed, that he had taken the figures for six years.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the clause might very well be omitted from the Bill. It did not set up a new court but simply affirmed that the court, such as it was, which heard the case should sentence. Those who heard the evidence and observed the demeanour of the witnesses must be better qualified to pronounce sentence than those who merely read a report, which was the duty of the Board of Trade. If it was the wish of the Committee, he would not insist on the change proposed, but leave the courts to proceed as at present. When an engineering question was involved, there would be an engineering as well as a nautical assessor; and if one nautical assessor was not thought in an ordinary way sufficient, he should have no objection to another. These were points of detail.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, it was not the recent practice to examine the master. He was told that he might make any statement he pleased; but he
 1763
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he would admit the difficulty of determining what should be accepted as evidence of general good conduct and that a man might be an able engineer, though he had not been employed on board ship. Therefore he was quite prepared to omit the words "general good conduct on board ship."He presumed that although a man might on examination prove his ability as an engineer, yet if it should be known that he was a great drunkard, or his character were otherwise impeachable, there would be little chance of his obtaining a certificate.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that the proposal rested on the same principle as the existing regulations with respect to the examination of the masters and mates of merchant vessels. Engineers had important duties to perform; life and property were intrusted to their care, and it was desirable that there should be some test of their competency. He believed there was no objection on the part of engineers to the proposal, which had this advantage, that in the case of misconduct, drunkenness, or neglect of duty on the part of any engineer, there would be the power of withdrawing this certificate. The object
 1751
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, it was framed to meet a class of cases of which there had been a recent example. Some English sailors left their own vessel, went on board a French ship, sufficiently distant from the Essex coast to be upon the high seas, committed a violent assault, and then returned to their own vessel. It was only reasonable, to prevent such offences being committed with impunity, that the clause should be inserted.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the clause was taken from the Railway Acts, and it had not hitherto been found practically inconvenient.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, be must oppose the Amendment. The object of the clause in the Bill was to enable shippers and shipowners to give effect to their own agreements both as to the time of delivery and the rate of charge. They were competent to judge of their own affairs without being nursed by a clause in an Act of Parliament; but if no agreement as to the time when the goods should be taken out of the ship were made, then the Bill required that the goods should be discharged within a reasonable time, in order that the space in the river and the docks might not be taken up by the needless detention of vessels. The proviso now proposed by the hon. and learned Member would establish an enduring responsibility on the part of the shipowner which was quite unprecedented.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, it was for lawyers to decide what was the mean-
 1781
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he had no objection to postpone that and the two following Customs clauses.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the clerks having been a long time in the office of the solicitor of the Board of Customs, were thoroughly conversant with the law on the subject, and the Customs authorities told him it would be very convenient to have this power.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he hoped the noble Lord would not press his proposal for the omission of the clauses to a division. Those clauses did not maintain, or abolish compulsory pilotage, but they enabled different localities to make such changes in their pilotage system as they thought advantageous, without the necessity of resorting to the trouble and expense of passing a private Bill through Parliament. The provisional orders would have to be confirmed by a general Act, and any petition against a provisional order would be referred to a Select Committee, so that private interests were effectually guarded. He could not, therefore, conceive any reason why the Committee should object to persons receiving the advantages which the Bill provided, with a due regard to existing interests and the circumstances of particular cases.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that if the master or mate got a copy of the original depositions on which the investigation was ordered, he thought it would meet the view of the right hon. Member for Oxford-shire. He had no objection to strengthen the court by giving a second nautical assessor, and he would make that provision in a subsequent stage of the Bill.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the value put on a wreck by the valuer appointed under the provisions of the Bill by the Receiver of Wrecks, would not be binding, but mere evidence, which might be rebutted in Court.
 MR. HORSFALL  said, it was his intention to support the clauses in the Bill as they now stood, and he should do so for the reason that they would insert the wedge into the question of pilotage. He also agreed that compulsory pilotage ought,
 1775
 MR. HORSFALL  said, he considered the proposed examination for certificates of competency as one of the most important provisions of the Bill. No injustice was done to the engineers by the change, and it was only carrying out the principle of the Merchant Shipping Bill, that had been applied with such good effect in the case of masters and mates.
 MR. HORSFALL  said, he also shared in the surprise expressed by the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire, that the tribunal in its present form gave entire satisfaction to the masters and mates in the mercantile marine. On the contrary, a very large deputation from that body had represented that they were dissatisfied. He thought the right hon. Gentleman might, with a good grace, yield so far as to add to the stipendiary magistrate two assessors; the whole difficulty might then be got over. It was due to the right hon. Gentleman to say that when he asked whether the deputation to which he referred could point to any case where injustice had been done to any master or mate, the reply received was that they could not, but they knew that a general feeling of dissatisfaction pervaded the mercantile community.
 MR. HORSFALL  said, he had hoped that the law would have been amended which enabled sailors to recover their wages, whether the ship was lost or not, or whether they abandoned it upon a supposed emergency. The underwriters or the owner had to bear the loss, and why should not the sailors take their share of the risk? The effect of the clause would be to render seamen apt to abandon their ship instead of standing by her to the last.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that on the second reading of the Bill in question he would give the House the best information in his power with respect to the probable cost of the contemplated enlargements and improvements of the Museum on its present site and of the buildings which it was proposed should be erected on a new site.
 MR. COX  said, he thought it was very desirable that the system of compulsory pilotage should be abolished. Between 8,000 and 9,000 barges plied for hire on the Thames, and every day three or four, if not five, of them were injured in some shape by vessels coming from Gravesend to London Bridge. Where it not for the present pilotage law, the owner of a barge thus injured would be entitled according to the common law of the land to require compensation from the owner of the vessel that had injured the barge. But the pilotage law exempted the owner of the vessel from all liability, in consequence of his having being obliged to employ one of the compulsory pilots, and the owner of the injured barge had only the pilot to look to for compensation. The futility of such a resource was evidenced by what recently happened to one of his constituents. A barge worth £140 or £150, belonging to that constituent, was run down, and, upon endeavouring to recover compensation from the pilot employed by the owner of the vessel that occasioned the damage, he discovered that the pilot lived on a second floor in a back street in Gravesend, and was utterly incapable of paying even a shilling of compensation. In the course of a twelvemonth 1,500 at least of these accidents occurred. But what was the law in the event of a vessel being injured by a barge? The owner of the vessel could sue the owner of the barge for compensation. Did the President of the Board of Trade approve of such unfair distinction made by the law between rich shipowners and bargeowners? In common justice the shipowner should be obliged to resort for compensation to the free waterman whom a bargeowner was
 1766
 MR. DEEDES  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for India, What is the reason that the Delhi and Lucknow prize money still remains unpaid, and whether he can name any period within which all claims will be met?
 MR. DEEDES  said, he wished to know whether the receipt of the Prize Rolls would be necessary before payment could be made to those senior officers of the staff who had been for some time in England?
 MR. GREGORY  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether, before the second reading of the Bill for the removal of certain Collections from the British Museum, he will be able to give the House an estimate of the cost of the alterations of the present structure of the British Museum, and of the proposed additions, and of the cost of the building and fitting-up of the proposed new Museum of Natural History at Kensington?
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he would remind the hon. Gentleman that the owner might insure his freight as well as his ship. There was, therefore, no pretence for the alteration suggested.
 MR. W. S. LINDSAY  observed, that the term "sea-going" was well understood.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he thought the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gibson) would be a most extraordinary termination to the discussion.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, it was well known that at ports where pilotage was not compulsory the supply of pilots was greater and better—the effect of competition. He had listened to the speeches of the noble Lord opposite and the hon. Member for Hull (Mr. Clay), and they were the same as adduced in years gone by, the doctrines of which had been happily exploded. They had ample evidence of what would be the effect of abolishing compulsory pilotage. At present, where it was not compulsory, the men were much more attentive to their duties, and to be found at a greater distance at sea; and further, they were more numerous, and their charges were lower. On the other hand, where the system was compulsory, the pilots were apt to lie by in bad weather, and then jumped on board when a ship was out of danger, and claimed the pilotage. The only objection which he had to the whole of the Bill was, that it did not propose to sweep away the system altogether. The right hon. Gentleman proposed to deal with Falmouth, the Downs, Yarmouth Roads, and the Isle of Wight; but why did he not grapple with the question boldly, and sweep the compulsory system away altogether? He felt convinced that that would have tended to the interests of the pilots themselves, and hare improved their condition. It would also have tended to the interests of the shipowners, and, above all, to the interests of the public at large; and if the House would support him, he would, on the bringing up of the Report, propose clauses which should entirely abolish compulsory pilot-
 1776
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he had stated no more than was, contained in the Report of the Commissioners themselves, and quoted the passage in which it was stated that in one port where the pilots were unlicensed they were much more vigilant than in a neighbouring port where the pilots were licensed.
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether it is the intention of the Government to act upon the Report of the Cadastral Survey Committee; and if so, whether he will bring in a Supplementary Estimate this Session to enable their recommendations to be carried into effect?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that on seeing the statement in the newspapers he immediately referred it to the chairman of the bench of magistrates at Maidstone, and requested him to furnish a report of the facts of the case. He received a report a few days afterwards, and it left no doubt as to the nature of the offence of which the boy was charged. That offence, however, was not quite accurately described, either in the newspaper statement or in the question put by the hon. and
 1748
 SIR HENRY STRACEY  said, he was of opinion that compulsory pilotage bore hardly on shipowners. It was not to be supposed that any man, having his property embarked on board a vessel, would employ an inefficient captain to command the vessel, and therefore it was a hard case to subject him to compulsory pilotage. Although his constituents lived on a dangerous coast, he had received no representation from them against these clauses, and he should certainly give them his support.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he had made rather a lengthened statement on the
 1783
 SIR ROBERT PEEL , in moving the second reading of this Bill, stated, that its principle had received the approval of 134 out of the 163 Boards of Guardians in Ireland, and of the Select Committee on Poor Relief which sat last year. Its object was to extend to officers under the Poor Law system, who had devoted the best part of their life to the discharge of those duties, the same advantages which were already enjoyed by officers in gaols, lunatic asylums, and other establishments. Its operation would be strictly confined to such officers as the master and matron, apothecary and schoolmaster, who well deserved to be superannuated; and while imposing but a very moderate burden on the country, it would be productive of large benefits. [The right hon. Gentleman read extracts from the evidence of Messrs. Power and Senior, Irish Poor Law Commissioners, and of Mr. O'Shaughnessy, of the Cork Union, in favour of the proposal embodied in the Bill.] The intention was to levy, within a period of three years, a rate of 6 d 1784
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that the Government would yield to the wish which had been expressed by the Irish Members.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that the manuscripts of the Brehon Laws from the
 1749
 MR. CAVE  said, that no new principle was introduced, as certificates or diplomas were necessary in many callings. There was a great difference between an engineer of a mine, who could be discharged if incompetent, and an engineer afloat, whose
 1753
 MR. CAVE  said, that alarm was felt at the Receiver of Wrecks having power to appoint the valuer, and that there was a wish that another valuer should be appointed in conjunction with him on the part of the owners, in addition to an umpire, He did not attach much weight to to this objection, as he thought the valuation would be mere evidence, which the owner might rebut, and the court would be the umpire. Perhaps the right hon. Gentleman would state if his impression was correct, as this would remove the uneasy feeling to which he had referred.
 MR. CAVE  said, this was a lawyer's objection. No mercantile man would dream that "immediate" meant anything than with all convenient speed. The change in the law was necessary, because the law, as it stood, could not be observed, and was habitually broken with the consent of all parties—a very unsatisfactory state of things. The Member for Southwark had done what he did two years ago. He had made a speech for the plaintiff in the case of Wharves  v Shipping and Mercantile Gazette
 MR. STIRLING  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, What progress has been made with the Brehon Law Publication; and whether the surviving Editor, Mr. Curry, is prepared to continue the work?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  hoped that the hon. and gallant Gentleman would not press his Motion. The hon. and gallant Gentleman had observed that the Irish Members had shown much patience during the Session. He hoped they would not make that occasion an exception.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he was informed that the Commissioners had agreed upon their Report, and that it was likely to be in the hands of the Government next week.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : When the Report has been presented to the Government, I will answer that question.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether certain lands, comprising part of the glacis or otherwise connected with the Citadel of Hull, have not been sold by the Board of Ordnance some years since; and whether the titles to such lands so sold are not invalidated by the recent opinions of the Law Officers of the Crown, alleged to have been given, as to the paramount rights of the Crown to those lands?
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that some years ago the Hull Citadel was sold by the Board of Ordnance to the Hull Dock Company, and the sale was effected by Act of Parliament, so that he apprehended there could be no doubt about the title of the, company in question to that land. He was not aware that any doubt had been cast upon its validity by any opinion given by the Law Officers of the Crown. The only question he understood to have arisen was whether the land was part of the hereditary land reserved, or whether it was vested in the Board of Ordnance; but that was a question between two public departments, and it could not in any manner affect the title of the purchasers.
 THE O'CONOR DON  said, he wished to ask the hon. Member for the City of Waterford, Whether it is his intention to proceed this Session with the Charitable Donations and Bequests (Ireland) Bill?
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : Sir, I apprehend that the question of the Member for the King's County is founded mainly upon the proceedings of a late Court Martial in Dublin. Now, I think it is rather precipitate to condemn the constitution or the procedure of these Courts upon a single case. If they were to decide in that manner with respect to the value of trial by jury—admitting that every now and then juries arrived at improper decisions, which it was the duty of the Secretary of State to rectify—surely they would be committing a great mistake. I think, therefore, that even supposing that an error has been committed in this instance, which may be denied, there would still be no conclusive reasons for a change in the law. But I do not precisely know at present the exact evil which it is proposed to remedy, or the exact remedy which it is proposed to apply. If any definite proposal is brought under my notice, I shall be quite ready to give it my best consideration, but I have not at present any intention of proposing a change in the law.
 SIR, WILLIAM GALLWEY  said, that in rising to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the double appointment of Sir Edwin Pearson and Mr. Tite, M.P., to the Chairmanship of the Westminster Improvement Commission, he wished at the outset to express his regret that this painful duty should have devolved upon him. The matter, however, was one which, as would be seen, evidently called for explanation. He had also been personally placed in a most disagreeable position by the conduct of the Chief Commissioner of Works, and
 1795 "I am required by the Act of this Session to nominate the Chairman of the new Westminster Improvement Commission, and I believe I should best discharge the duty devolved upon me by
 1796 "I beg to acknowledge your letter of the 2nd of August, in which you do me the honour to nominate me the Chairman of the new Westminster Improvement Commission. I will undertake with much pleasure the office which you offer to my acceptance, and I trust that I may be instrumental, with God's blessing, in bringing to a successful termination the improvements in Westminster, of which untoward circumstances have for so many years prevented the public from reaping the benefit." "I am distressed to find that I must not. give effect to the intention I mentioned to you in my letter on Friday last. Since I wrote to you I have received an intimation that some of the parties at whose instigation the power of nomination was committed to the First Commissioner of Works attach great importance to the Chairman being a person who comes freshly to the work, without any previous acquaintance with it or any bias; and although I have never heard a whisper of complaint against you, nor do I believe that any one could offer the slightest objection to you personally, yet I do feel that if the duty of nomination was intrusted to me under the expectation that I should infuse what is called 'new blood,' and select a person who would take up the affair from its present starting point, rather than from its origin, I should not be acting rightly in giving way to my own feelings, which prompted me to desire to offer it to you. I am only consoled by the reflection that you will be saved a thankless and laborious task, and that you could find no satisfaction in being again concerned in the affairs of this unfortunate undertaking, from which, I believe, you derived no advantage but that of coming out of it with a spotless reputation." 1797 "It is unfortunate that you should have hastily communicated the erroneous impression you had derived from my first letter before you could receive my second; but, after weighing carefully what you have urged, both by word of mouth and by letter, I am only confirmed in the conviction that the view expressed in my second letter is the sound one, and that by which I ought to abide I feel sure that you are over-sanguine in supposing that an appointment as director would be an advantage to you in regard to past transactions. Persons who, at present, have no inducement to raise questions as to the share attributable to you in those transactions, and who have no inclination to blame you, would be driven by the fact of your appointment to take up a different position; they would protest against the appointment, and bring forward their objections publicly. The amount of damage which you would incur from the raising and discussion of these questions would be greater than the benefit you could derive from having been selected by the First Commissioner of Works. The opinion of the objectors would have more effect upon the public than that of the First Commissioner of Works, since the former are cognizant of the circumstances, while the latter has no personal acquaintance with them. It would not be beneficial or advantageous to you to be named the Chairman of the new Commission, and it would not be right for me so to exercise the trust confided in me; and I am therefore compelled to repeat that I cannot appoint you, but have thought myself bound to offer the post to another gentleman. I am extremely sorry that in my desire to gratify you and your friends I should have caused you annoyance, and I beg to assure you that I shall be anxious to make amends in any way that would be consistent with my public duties." 1798 "House of Commons, Aug. 6, 1857. "Dear Sir,—I have so high an opinion of the services you rendered in transforming those haunts of vice and dens of misery into a wide and handsome street, that I shall be glad to seize any opportunity that may offer of helping to secure for you a suitable acknowledgment of the labours which met with so successful a result. "Very truly yours, "W. COWPER." "If you have never asked yourself the question—and perhaps your generosity has forbidden it—I have. You owe me nothing; the public are a little in my debt on that account, it is true, but I owe them so much on many others that I have long ceased to keep account with them. Their greatest of all obligations in this affair is due to you. To you they are indebted for an improvement which, for all the ordinary purposes of such undertakings, is only the second of its class in the metropolis; for the moral benefits which it will confer second to none. What I am now stating would, I am sure, be confirmed in every quarter; but it is known, perhaps, only to myself how much its progress was aided by the confidence felt here in the purity of your personal character. Were I to make yon acquainted with all I hear on that point you would see how little you were indebted to me." "That Sir Edwin Pearson, who was Chairman of the Commissioners, but who resigned his seat
 1799 1800
 MR. COWPER : Sir, if the hon. Baronet felt it necessary to apologize at being obliged to enter into such a personal question as the one which he hag raised, I must feel still more reluctant to trouble the House with the details. I can unhesitatingly say that I grieve exceedingly at the disappointment of Sir Edwin Pearson in not getting the appointment which he expected to obtain. [An hon. MEMBER: Which he did obtain.] Nothing is more unpleasant in the exercise of patronage than being unable to appoint people whom you would like to oblige. If the simple question had been the disappointment of Sir Edwin Pearson at not getting the place, I should not trespass at any length upon the time of the House. But the hon. Baronet has placed the subject in another light. He moves for a Committee of inquiry into the double appointment. I venture to say that there has been no double appointment. It is a fiction of the hon. Gentleman's brain. No such thing exists. There has been no double appointment, and there is nothing to inquire into. Sir Edwin Pearson was not appointed, and I do not think he ought to have been appointed. I will first state the circumstances under which I wrote the letter. I wrote it for the purpose of ascertaining whether Sir Edwin Pearson was willing or not to occupy the post. ["Oh, oh!"] If hon. Members demur to that, I am sorry to say I must go through the whole story. Everybody is aware of the gross mismanagement of the Westminster Commission. The Winding-up Act, which passed in 1861, was for the purpose of bringing that gross mismanagement to a conclusion. The affairs of the Commission were in a state of inextricable confusion. It was established in 1845 on a wrong principle, for it undertook to execute a very large work without sufficient funds. The consequence was that heavy loans were raised without any means to pay them off. It was stated by the Chairman
 1801 1802 "I am required by the Act of last Session to nominate the Chairman of the new Westminster Improvement Commission, and I believe I should best discharge the duty devolved upon me by placing you in that arduous and responsible post. I am encouraged to hope, from the readiness with which you have worked for the public, that you will be willing to undertake the laborious task." quo warranto 1803 1804 1805
 MR. COWPER : If there is any doubt as to the truth of that statement, I can refer to the date on which I wrote the letter.
 MR. COWPER : On which?
 MR. COWPER : This is the first time that I have heard of it. It would have been well if I had been told that before, But that does not alter the fact that I wrote the letter on the 5th—that it is dated on the 5th. The hon. Member corrobo-
 1806 1807
 MR. COWPER : I beg to say that I was not reading the paper. I was merely stating the impression conveyed to me, which was, that persons who were interested in winding up this Commission were of opinion that Sir Edwin Pearson had not the energy, the determination, and the business qualities which would enable him satisfactorily to discharge his duties. I had to act not merely upon the opinion I
 1808 1809
 COLONEL, SYKES  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the active hostilities now being carried on by British Naval and Military Forces against the insurgents in the province of Kiangnan, not withstanding the friendliness of the insurgents to foreigners at Ningpo, have been authorized, or are now sanctioned, by Her Majesty's Government? With respect to the conduct of the rebels at Ningpo, it is stated in the  Overland Trade Report "Since the capture of Ningpo the Taepings have conducted themselves there in an exemplary
 1827 The Times "The Marines had got close tip to the barricade, only waiting the Admiral's order to enter the intrenchments. At this time the enemy were observed to be retreating in great numbers from the rear, when the shells from Bradshaw's artillery were thrown rapidly among them, committing fearful havoc. Numbers also fell under the fire from the rifles of the French and English sailors, who were extended out on the left to cut them off; but the nature of the country precluded this, so they kept up an incessant fusilade on them as they ran away. Some of Colonel Ward's soldiers had got round on the other side, and were in hot pursuit. The fire from the earthworks being pretty well silenced, the British Admiral waved his cap, when the Marines under Captain Holland and Lieutenant Sturt, and the blue-jackets under Commanders Gibson, Fawkes, and Richardson, entered in front through a breach which was soon made by an extempore company of sappers and miners—blue-jackets—under Lieutenant Bosanquet, of Her Majesty's gunboat  Flamer
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he rose to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the circumstances under which certain arrests (stated to be illegal) were made for trespass on the Curragh of Kildare, and into the powers possessed by the Civil and Military Authorities for enforcing their orders and Regulations within the Camps on that Common, while such Camps continue to exist. In 1853 a camp for the instruction of the troops was formed at the Curragh of Kildare—a plain which had long previously been used as a common, over which the inhabitants of the surrounding districts enjoyed rights of pasturage, and on which races had been held at least ever since the reign of Charles II. The proposal to establish a camp there at first awakened the jealousy of the persons who had enjoyed rights of pasturage, and who were interested in the races; but the Government entered into an engagement that no encroachment should be made upon the privileges of either of those classes. An engineer officer had been at that time sent to the Curragh, and a line was drawn on the map of it made for the purpose, which
 1833 1834
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that the hon. and gallant Gentleman, who possessed considerable talents, had spoken for a long time upon the subject without conveying to the House any clear idea of his meaning, or the precise point of his complaint. The clear object of his Motion might, however, be gathered from what had fallen from the hon. Member for Kildare. It apppeared that there was a dispute as to a right of way over the Curragh, but that involved a point of law which could not properly be determined by a Committee of the House. If the Committee did pronounce an opinion on the subject, it would not be binding upon any parties, and would have very little effect in terminating the dispute. Another ground of complaint was, that there was a difference between the county and stipendiary magistrates; but that was a matter for the consideration of the executive Government. If any difficulty arose from the absence of special legislation with respect to the camp at the Curragh, it was for the Secretary for War to look into the question; and if it were brought before him in the proper manner, he would give it his best consideration.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he heard the first sentences of the speech and the conclusion; indeed, nearly the whole of what the hon. and gallant Gentleman said.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he was not in a position to follow the hon. Gentleman into the account he had given of the polities of the town, which appeared to have been unfortunately mixed up with the question. He did not admit that a law officer who had to discharge the duty of appointing new trustees to a charity ought to be dictated to by any party. It was his duty to obtain the best information in his power, and then to nominate, regardless of politics, the party appearing to be best qualified to discharge the duties of the office. The question here appeared to belong to the general charity.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he was not aware that any objection had been made to the Church list; nor was he aware, till he saw the question on the paper, that
 1839
 LORD HENRY LENNOX (who was greeted with cheering from the Ministerial benches)  said, he could understand the derisive cheers which were heard from behind the Treasury bench when any independent Member rose to show that there had been wanton expenditure. The House was too accustomed to the gentle pathos of his noble and gallant relative who had just sat down to pay much attention to his pathetic appeals. It was a question of hard common sense which was before them; and the most remarkable fact was that the matter had, on different occasions, been put forward in fourteen distinct shapes, and recommended upon almost as many grounds. Last year the Government said it was not a harbour of refuge, but a harbour necessary for military purposes; and his noble and gallant relative changed the venue, spoke of it as a harbour of refuge, and now implored them to remove that dreadful sand-bank which was going to prove a most fearful instrument of destruction to unhappy ships tempest-tossed in the Channel. His noble and gallant relative said that the harbour would be most useful in the event of a war with France, because it would be a place of
 1856
 MR. PEEL  said, that the question before the House was not whether the construction of the harbour should be commenced. Alderney was not intended as a harbour of refuge; it was a harbour of defence—one in which, in time of war, our shipping in the Channel could be protected. The late Sir James Graham and the Duke of Wellington were both of opinion that these works would be of great service to this country in a military point of view, and he hoped that the Committee would come to a similar conclusion. The objection that the expenditure upon them was uncertain as to its amount might have had force at one time; but since 1859 the present Government had determined to what extent the harbour should be carried, and had fixed a point for the extremity of the pier, so that the estimate had never since then undergone any change. The length of the pier was a mile. The construction of the pier had been finished as far as the base was concerned, and also as regarded three-fourths of the superstructure. There only remained one quarter of the superstructure to be finished, and he contended that suddenly to abandon the undertaking, when it was so near completion, would be unwise even upon economical grounds. It
 1857
 LORD ELCHO : Before you reply, Sir, I wish to say that had my hon. Friend not risen to put his question, it was my intention to have claimed the indulgence of the House to allow me to read a letter upon a matter personal to myself. The letter is one addressed by you, Sir, the Speaker of the House of Commons, to myself, and with the permission of the House I will proceed to read it—
 "May 16. "My dear Lord Elcho,—I have heard with amazement that the Lord Chancellor announced last night in the House of Lords that he had received a challenge to a rifle match from the Speaker of the House of Commons—a challenge from the House of Commons to the House of Lords. As I cannot doubt that you made the
 1790 "Believe me yours very truly, "J. EVELYN DENISON."
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  observed, that in the existing temper of the House it was a difficult task to defend Alderney harbour. But he wished to impress upon them the inexpediency of leaving in an unfinished state a work that would in time of war be extremely valuable for our fleets in the Channel. In 1859 the present Government, immediately after accepting office, inquired narrowly into what had been done. They found that the late Government thought so highly of Alderney, that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Droitwich had proposed that a considerable extension of the breakwater should be made. The present Government, however, having ascertained to what extent the foundations of the breakwater had been laid, came to the determination to finish the breakwater to that extent, and to that extent only. There remained 1,000 feet of the breakwater to be completed. However prejudiced they might be against Alderney, the Committee should consider that over the unfinished foundations there was at low water only a depth of twelve feet, which was positively dangerous, and would lead to some great disaster to vessels which might attempt to make the harbour in a gale, if matters were not improved. The 1,000 feet must be completed, or the works should be blown up, and he thought few would hesitate to admit that the Government ought to complete the breakwater to the extent he had mentioned. That was all the Government proposed to do. If it should be the pleasure of Parliament that the eastern arm of the breakwater should not be proceeded with, the Government would not press the matter. He, for one, should not originally have advised the formation of the harbour; but he thought, that having begun it, they ought not to leave it in an unfinished state—that would be a disgrace to the country. Without entering into the value of the harbour in time of war, he would remark that our recent experience
 1855
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, the hon. Member must have been alluding to the plan of the late Government for enlarging the harbour of Alderney. The notions of the present Government were much more modest.
 LORD HENRY SCOTT  said, that having recently visited Egypt, he thought he could mention some facts that would be interesting to the House. Her Majesty's Government appeared to think that the construction, of the Suez Canal would be a dangerous project for this country, both commercially and politically. He could not but think, with all deference to those who entertained opposite opinions, that if any one was to benefit by such a canal, the British traders would derive as much advantage as those of any other nation; for no country had a greater interest in a more easy and rapid communication with India. Upon the question of the practicability of the canal opinions varied, the French engineers holding one opinion, and the English engineers an opposite one; and therefore the issue must be decided by the result. But, whichever opinion was right, it was certain that many years must elapse before any portion of the canal could be open. The hon. Member for Devizes had complained, and justly, of the manner in which
 1824 d s 1825
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, it would be well for the Committee to know the real amount of the Vote for which they were asked. That given in the Estimates was only the apparent amount. The apparent amount of the present Vote was £150,000 only; but there was also a very large balance in hand. He found by a Return of this year (No. 195) that, according to an account brought up to the 1st of April, 1862, there was a balance in hand, in respect to Dover, Alderney, and Portland, of £134,000. This was seen to be the case if the sums certified up to March 31, 1862, were subtracted from the sums already voted. The sum £134,000, added to the £150,000 now proposed to be voted, made a total of £284,000. For Holyhead and Portpatrick harbours, the sum of £101,221 which was voted a few days ago, together with the balance in hand,
 1852 1853 "thought himself placed in a very unsatisfactory position with reference to harbours of refuge; he did not see what check or control he could possibly have over the work in question,  &c Q. 1858. "Therefore there is no real check or control?—Not the most remote." "Not to my knowledge. I never see one; nor ever have, from first to last."
 MR. AYRTON  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the manner in which the Charges for the Civil Services are increased, and to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer whether it is expedient to make any change in the mode of conducting business to enable the House to exercise a more effectual supervision over the progress of measures which tend to that increase. In consequence of a communication which he had received from the right hon. Gentleman, it would not
 1840 1841 1842 1843 1844
 MR. LAYARD  said, that he had to thank his hon. Friend the Member for Devizes (Mr. D. Griffith) for the courtesy
 1828 1829 d s 1830 1831 1832
 MR. LAYARD  said, he was not aware that any judgment of the kind mentioned by his hon. Friend had been pronounced by a Neapolitan tribunal, He would, however, make inquiries into the matter.
 MR. LAYARD  said, the Report referred to by the hon. Gentleman was presented to the Congress at Washington. Her Majesty's Government had received a printed copy of the Report, and there would be no objection to lay it upon the table.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he was astonished at the statement the noble Lord had made as to the point at issue. They were not there, like a body of attorneys, to determine whether the Chief Commissioner had given a legal bond or made a legal contract, but they were there to decide upon a point of honour. It would be disastrous if the noble Lord, and those who were going to support him, failed to see that that was the point at issue. The character of the hon. Member for Bath (Mr. Tite) had never been called in question. But what they wished to determine by the inquiry of a Committee was the grounds upon which the Chief Commissioner was entitled in honour to cancel the nomination which he had made. The right hon. Gentleman stated that he had cancelled it upon grounds which reflected upon the character of Sir Edwin Pearson; and Sir Edwin Pearson had a right to ask for an inquiry.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that it had happened in August last that Sir Edwin Pearson was staying at his (Mr. Newdegate's) house near Uxbridge, where the letter from the Chief Commissioner of Works, attempting to revoke the appointment he had made, reached Sir Edwin Pearson. He had had the honour of knowing Sir Edwin Pearson for many years: that Gentleman was extremely distressed at the letter, and referred the matter to him (Mr. Newdegate) as a friend. He approached the subject with every inclination to prevent anything like a disagreeable collision; he calmly considered the whole case. He had to take into account that ever since the resignation of Sir Edwin Pearson in 1852, in consequence of his strong opposition to the inception of the transactions which had afterwards disgraced the Commission, he had been the victim of false and malicious calumny. On resigning, Sir Edwin Pearson wrote to every bondholder, warning them, that if such proceedings as were then proposed to be taken were carried into effect, they would lead to disaster. This was an act of honesty and of duty, but was probably the cause of anger among those implicated in the subsequent transactions of the Commission. Since that period Sir Edwin Pearson had been the victim of calumny. He claimed for him the sympathy of the House, because he pledged himself to show that expressions had been used in that House on several occasions connected with the passing of the Act for Winding up the Affairs of the Commission, which gave currency to those unjust calumnies. On the 10th of May, 1861, Sir Edwin Pearson addressed a letter, which he (Mr. Newdegate) then held in his hand, to the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Commissioner of Works, in which he said, "I trust I am not asking anything but what is most just and reasonable, when I very respectfully request that you will take the opportunity on the third reading of the Westminster Improvements Bill to remove the erroneous impressions made upon the public with all the weight and authority of your official position." Therefore before his re-appointment to the chairmanship was ever thought of, before the present Act passed, expressions had been used by the Chief Commissioner which,
 1817
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, that before putting the question which stood in his name upon the paper, he wished to take that opportunity of making a remark on the practice of the House, suggested by the division which had just taken place. As the matter which had been last discussed was one of a personal nature, it was quite possible that an hon. Member might from obvious motives wish not to vote upon it. Yet, if the Motion next upon the paper happened to be in the name of any such hon. Member, it was absolutely necessary that he should be present and vote in the previous division, in order to be in time to make the Motion. There was also some risk that after a crowded division the Member who, like himself, had next to put a question, or to make a Motion, might not be able to find his way to his seat through the crowd. He wished to point out these matters to the consideration of; the House, as it occurred to him that some regulation might be adopted to enable a Member to absent himself from a division, and subsequently reach his place to exercise his right by putting the question of which he had given notice. He rose, however, to ask the hon. Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs some questions upon the subject of the Suez Canal, in which he thought the interests of humanity were concerned. He regretted to differ from the noble Viscount in the view which he took on the subject of the Suez Canal: but he might add that at the very time when, some time since, he (Mr. Griffith) was submitting his views to the House, a distinguished statesman, M. de Tocqueville, was making very similar representations to an eminent fellow-countryman of theirs. Mr. Senior. M. de Tocqueville was of opinion that the almost passionate opposition set up in England to the Suez Canal was productive of much mischief between the two countries. The opposition of England led the French to think that the; scheme must be praticable, and some even had gone so far as to denominate it a vulnerable point in the  cuirasse Anglaise 1822 1823 "Whether the Pacha of Egypt has lately compelled 10,000 or 20,000 labourers, or more, to work for the Suez Canal Company by forced labour, the Company paying 40 francs per month for them to the Pacha, but giving only rations to the labourers; "Whether the requirement of forced labour from the population of his Pachalic be not a direct violation of the obligations with which the Pacha has undertaken towards the Porte, according to the terms of the Firman of 1841, by which he is bound to carry out the provisions of the Hatti Sheriff of Gulhané, the Tanzimât, and all the other laws at any time existing in the Ottoman Empire; "Whether a persistence in such course might not be held to involve the forfeiture of his Pachalic by the Pacha, and the rendering invalid the permission lately obtained from the Porte to contract a loan with European capitalists; "And, if so, whether her Majesty's Government will not call upon the four Powers who were parties to the Convention of the 15th July, 1840, and of the Collective Notes to the Porte of the 30th January and 13th March, 1841, to enforce the observance of those stipulations and engagements upon the Pacha of Egypt; or will take such course as they may consider to be effective for the purpose?"
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he wished to say a few words as to what had fallen from the occupants of the Treasury benches. He denied that the Motion was an attack on the present Government, for it was equally an attack on former Government It was now admitted that the harbour of Alderney was not a harbour of refuge, but it was said that it was a harbour of observation; they had not, however, learnt what could be observed from it. He ventured to say nothing—certainly not Cherbourg. It was also represented as a harbour of shelter; that it was not, for no man in his senses would run into it. It seemed to him, that grave as would be the cost of the work, it was a much more serious consideration that it would lead to the establishment of a fortification which would require 5,000 men to garrison it; and he should like to know how, in the event of a war with France, that number of men could be spared?
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of I State for Foreign Affairs, Whether he is aware that on the 3rd day of May, 1861, a I tribunal at Naples decided that the owners of the  Orwell
 MR. HUNT : To both. We say two Conservatives have been struck out of each list and two Liberals have been substituted.
 MR. HUNT  said, he rose to ask Mr. Attorney General, Whether he will state at whose instance, and upon what ground, he has struck out of the List of Persons unanimously recommended by the Town Council of Northampton to fill the vacancies in the number of Charity Trustees for that borough the names of four gentlemen professing Conservative opinions, and has substituted others in lieu of them; and whether he will undertake to restore the original names to the List to be submitted to the Lord Chancellor? He begged leave to shortly state the circumstances of the case to the House. There were two public boards in Northampton—the one connected with the Church charities and the other with the general charities, the latter being by far the most important. It was obvious that such charities ought to be administered without the slightest suspicion of party influence, and the boards had been so constituted as to prevent any such suspicion arising. Ten years ago, when the Liberal party had the predominance in the town council, they themselves assented to the principle upon which it was determined that the office of trustees should be filled up—namely, in such a way as to leave the two parties equal, there being on the Church charities board a majority of one Conservative, and on the more important general charity majority of one Liberal. Such equality was particularly desirable in Northampton, where, as he could testify, party spirit ran so high; and in 1859, when the first re appointment of trustees took place, the Conservatives, if they had felt desirous to depart from the original principle laid down with respect to the appointment of the trustees, would have had a most favourable opportunity of doing so, seeing that there was a Conservative Government in power at the time, and that the Conservatives had then a majority in the town council. They, however, did nothing of the kind, but left matters precisely as they were
 1838
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, that as he happened to have been the Chairman of the Committee to whom the Bill was referred, he wished to offer a few words in explanation. The Committee, having understood that the right hon. Gentleman the First Commissioner did not wish to make the appointment, took the subject into consideration; but, not desiring to assume the responsibility of the step, they requested him (Mr. Baillie) to address a letter to the Chief Commissioner of Works, and to request him as a public duty to make the appointment. He (Mr. Baillie) did not wish to enter into the question whether the Chief Commissioner was justified in appointing Sir Edwin Pearson or not; but this he could affirm, that it was the unanimous opinion of the Committee that no person connected with the former state of things ought to be appointed. No opinion of the Committee was more clearly entertained than that. He was fully convinced
 1818
 MAJOR EDWARDS  said, that it was to he regretted that the selection made by the Attorney General had destroyed that equality which had hitherto pretty generally been maintained, and his selections of Liberals only, instead of taking Liberals and Conservatives fairly, had occasioned very great dissatisfaction in Northampton.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  was understood to defend the Vote, and to declare that the harbour was useful as a harbour of observation, more especially with regard to Cherbourg.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Baronet is out of order.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the hon. and gallant Member could not conclude with his Motion, because the House by a division had affirmed that "the Speaker do now leave the chair" should stand part of the Question.
 MR. SPEAKER : I can assure the noble Lord that I receive the expressions he has just uttered entirely in the spirit in which he made them, and in a manner in which I should wish to receive such expressions from an old and valued friend. I wish to treat this matter with perfect good humour, and I trust the House will be disposed to treat it in the same way. I should guard myself upon one point—I mean a point of order, of which it is my duty not unfrequently to remind hon. Members—that it is not within the rules of order to refer to debates that have taken place in the House of Lords. I should be sorry to appear myself to have infringed such rules, but I must point out to the House that this is rather an exceptional case. Perhaps it might be treated in the light of a message from the
 1791
 MR. LAIRD  said, the Committee did not really know what they were about to vote the money for; but, with the information he possessed, he was certainly inclined to support the hon. Member for Montrose. A plan of the harbour ought to be laid upon the table, showing how far the Government intended to go, and what would be its true cost.
 MR. MACAULAY  said, that as far as he understood the speech of the First Commissioner, the right hon. Gentleman objected to the wording of the Motion as prejudging the question of a double appointment; but that, subject to a verbal amendment of the Motion, he did not object to his conduct in the matter being referred to a Select Committee of that House. It was greatly to be regretted that the right hon. Gentleman had gone so far as
 1813 1814 "I am distressed to find that I must not give effect to the intention I mentioned to you in my letter on Friday last. Since I wrote to you I have received an intimation that some of the parties at whose instigation the power of nomination was committed to the First Commissioner of Works attach great importance to the Chairman being a person who comes freshly to the work, without any previous acquaintance with it or any bias; and although I have never heard a whisper of complaint against you, nor do I believe that any one could offer the slightest objection to you personally, yet I do feel that if the duty of nomination was intrusted to me under the expectation that I should infuse what is called new blood, and select a person who would take up the affair from its present starting point rather than from its origin, I should not be acting rightly in giving way to my own feelings, which prompted me to desire to offer it to you." 1815 1816
 MR. HASSARD  said, he would take
 1794
 MR. O'BRIEN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether the Government intend to propose any change in the Law with regard to the constitution of Courts Martial?
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for War, When the Commissioners for inquiring into the necessity for erecting
 1792
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : When will it be on the table of the House?
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Then I will ask that question next week.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE :—Mr. Speaker, upon a matter which comes under the head of privilege I wish to put a question to you, Sir, as to what I conceive must be a most unjustifiable hoax, that has been practised upon the Lord High Chancellor of England and the noble Lords in another place. I wish to ask you, Sir, whether there be any truth in the statement that you, at the instigation of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for War, have sent a challenge to the other House of Parliament to meet this House in a rifle contest. I have reason to believe that the statement is a mere hoax, but I wish to give you, Sir, the earliest opportunity of contradicting it.
 MR. MALINS  said, he rose to order. Unless the right hon. Gentleman was prepared to state the name of the writer and the date of the letter, it would be better to refrain from reading that document.
 MR. MORE O'FERRALL  said, that as one of the Members for Kildare he begged to return his thanks to the hon. and gallant Gentleman for bringing the question before the House. The complaint was that the camp interfered with an ancient right of way, and that it had been stopped without any authority. In the case of Aldershot a similar complaint had been remedied. The right hon. Baronet, who was usually very ill informed about Irish matters, had given a singular instance of it that night. It was not true that the parties molested on the Curragh were, as alleged by the right hon. Baronet, thieves and prostitutes. In one case, a child nine years of age was kept some days in prison, taken before the county magistrates, and dismissed. Labourers, and, he believed, one farmer, had been arrested for using the public way, and instead of being admitted to bail to appear at the petty sessions, they were sent to gaol until the next day, when, being brought before the county magistrates, the case was dismissed. The stipendiary magistrate set himself above the county magistrates. Gentlemen in the commission, who had resided in the county for years, and enforced the law in a proper manner, would not strain the law, or commit an oppressive act. The stipendiary magistrate had exceeded his duty in sending a man to gaol for a common trespass, instead of taking his own recognisance to appear, at the sessions. There was no wish to interfere with Her Majesty's troops. All that was required was that the rights of the public should not be extinguished except by Act of Parliament.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not wish to commit himself to the particular opinions of the hon. and learned Member for the Tower
 1845 1846 1847 1848 1849
 MR. BAXTER  said, he rose to move that the Vote be reduced by £90,000, the sum asked for Alderney. It was not his intention to trespass long on the attention of the House, as he had last year stated his reasons at considerable length for objecting to the Vote for Alderney. He had not yet met a single Gentleman who in private conversation was prepared to defend this wasteful expenditure; and he felt confident that the Gentlemen sitting on the Treasury bench would rejoice at the success of his Amendment. The real difficulty in connection with the matter was, that neither the Government nor the House of Commons had yet had the moral courage to confess their original blunder by blotting the Vote out of the Estimates. The Duke of Somerset had made a remarkable statement in his place elsewhere—namely, that there were no fewer than fourteen plans for Alderney, and that not one of those plans provided it with a good harbour after all. He (Mr. Baxter) had no means of knowing what those plans were, but from the evidence taken before the Select Committee which sat in 1860 upon the miscellaneous expenditure it appeared that there were five plans, the first of which was in 1848, and was to have cost £620,000. In 1850 a second plan was proposed, at an estimated cost of £880,000. In 1854 the parties engaged in the plot against the public purse proposed an extension which was to have cost £1,300,000. In 1857 the plotters against the public purse had enlarged their scheme to acostof£l,850,000. And in 1859 their expanding views culminated in one grand scheme that was to have cost no less a sum than two millions sterling. Would the Committee believe that of all these plans—whether fourteen, as stated by the Duke of Somerset, or five as was stated in evidence before the Select Committee—only one plan, and that the smallest and the cheapest, was ever sub-
 1850 1851
 MR. BAXTER  in reply said, the speech just delivered by the noble Lord was much the same as they had for years past listened to from every Minister who had spoken
 1860
 MR. COGAN  said, he held that, on the showing of their own law officers, the Go-
 1836
 MR. MONSELL  said, that if the right hon. Gentleman introduced a special law to meet the existing state of things, the magistrates and the public of Kildare would meet him half-way; but, in the mean time, he thought that the Government ought to pledge themselves distinctly that the stipendiary magistrates would be
 1837
 MR. MONSELL  said, he was not surprised to hear the right hon, Gentleman say that the speech of his hon. and gallant Friend opposite was one of which he found it difficult to catch the purport, because, if he were correctly informed, the right hon. Gentleman was not in the House while the speech was being delivered.
 MR. MONSELL  said, the House had had four different plans presented to it, each of them accompanied by a different estimate of the expense. The real question before them was this—Was there any Minister in his senses who, in the event of a war with France, would take the responsibility of leaving 5,000 or 6,000 men in Alderney, with the certainty that any fleet there could be destroyed by the enemy, if he had the command of the Channel?
 MR. TITE  said, he quite agreed with the remark made by the right hon. Gentleman the First Commissioner of Works at the beginning of his speech, when he expressed his regret that the appointment had been placed in his hands at all. He (Mr Tite), at all events, regretted that he should have been the unfortunate individual appointed. His own part in the transaction had, however, been very simple and straightforward; and, briefly stated, it would afford the best reply to the imputations upon his character which he felt sure the hon. Baronet would regret having made, He knew nothing whatever of the new street, or the dealings or doings of the Commissioner before the 8th of August, when, having gone down to the coast of Suffolk, he received the following letter from the Chief Commissioner of Works:—
 "Dear Mr. Tite,—The Act which has just passed for altering the Westminster Improvement Commission, for winding up its affairs and giving a title to its property, and for making some new streets, and for getting that unfortunate chaos, Victoria Street, out of the mess in which it is, has given me the authority to appoint a Chairman, who is to be one of six Commissioners, of whom two are elected by the bondholders, two by the mortgagees, and one by the existing Commissioners. Is there any possibility of persuading you to become the Chairman? I am afraid it may be rather a troublesome task; but, on the other hand, there is great public good to be done, and some reputation to be achieved by getting the waggon out of such a rut. Pray tell me how you feel about this, for the parties concerned wish, I believe, that my appointment should he made before the election of the others proceeds, "Truly yours, "Aug. 8, 1861." "W. COWPER." 1810 "17. St. Helen's Place, E.C "Aug. 23, 1801." "My dear Mr. Cowper,—Thanks for your note of the 21st, and the information it contains. But it has accidentally come to my knowledge that some appointment in favour of Sir E. Pearson had been under your consideration. I presume, how ever, Sir Edwin has no pretence to claim the appointment at your hands, because I would, on no account, expose myself to the chance of any contest with the claims of any other gentleman. If, however, the nomination were perfectly free from any such difficulty, I should be ready to accept it, and to do my best to perform its duties. "I am, my dear Sir, your obedient servant, "W. TITE." 1811 "Aug. 30, 1861. "My dear Sir,—I was much pleased to get your letter, and to find that you are willing to undertake this task, Soon after the Act had passed Sir E. Pearson was recommended to me by persons connected with the Westminster undertaking. I thought that his experience and intimate acquaintance with the affairs of the Commission during the first period of its proceedings might afford an advantage which no one else could possess, and that his zeal and interest in the cause, and the absence of other occupations, would insure his full and undivided attention to the business of the Commission, and I was pleased at the thought of giving him some opportunity of retrieving the disaster into which he had, I believe, been originally drawn by a patriotic desire to improve the district. Under these impressions, I wrote to him in order to ascertain whether he would be willing to accept the office, and unfortunately it was only after I had written to him that I discovered that the circumstance which I had imagined to be an advantage was felt to be a fatal objection by some who were pecuniarily interested in the winding-up of the concern; and it appeared that the duty of nominating the Chairman had been imposed on me with the expectation that I should select some one who would take up the affair without bias or predilection from previous transactions. "I felt it, then, my duty to explain this to Sir E. Pearson, and to assure him of my regret that I could not act upon the intentions expressed in my previous communication. My second letter was written on the third day after the first; but owing to his absence from home it did not reach him immediately, and, unfortunately, he had on receipt of my first letter told his friends that he was to be appointed. I am greatly vexed at having occasioned him this disappointment, but I am now occasioned that I should not rightly discharge my duty by appointing him, so that a refusal from you would make no difference to him. "I am truly yours, "W. Tite, Esq., M.P." "W. COWPER." 1812
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, What information Her Majesty's Government have received respecting the occupation of Mexico by France, and the intentions of the French Government regarding Mexico?
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, the outpost of Alderney, if it was required at all, was inferior in importance to many other questions in connection with the national defences. He was old enough to recollect four reconstructions of the navy; and considering the altered circumstances in which naval matters had been placed during the last few months, and with a further reconstruction of the navy staring us in the face, he could not consent to waste a single shilling in the works at Alderney. He should therefore support the Amendment.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he concurred very much in what had fallen from his hon. Friend, but he wished to say in reference to the Public Works Committee, of which he was a member, that evidence was given before that Committee of Works contemplated, and almost begun, by one Commissioner, and then that the whole arrangement had been reversed, on a change of Government taking place. The Committee were, consequently, of opinion that the Public Works should be placed under some responsible Commissioner, who should not necessarily go out of office on a change of Government. The Committee, also, thought that it would be well if the Commission had a political representative in the House; and the idea was that one of the Junior Lords of the Treasury, who had very little to do, might undertake that office. Another point which was raised was in reference to the audit of the accounts. The Committee thought that there should be a  bonâ, fide
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that even had the Motion been before the House, he should have been obliged to resist it. The hon. and gallant Member had entirely failed to make out a case. Four instances of illegal acts had been given, and he believed that three were the cases of prostitutes, and one the case of a thief. There was no special Act for the Curragh, as there was for Aldershot; and the hon. and gallant Gentleman, from his experience in military matters, must know that for the sake of discipline it was necessary to keep the hordes of prostitutes and thieves who pressed round the camp outside its limits. He could not see how acts done by a stipendiary magistrate could be more illegal than nets done by unpaid magistrates. The hon. and gallant Gentleman said, that whereas formerly there were 30,000 sheep, the number was reduced now to 20,000. Would he like the camp to be removed? The benefit of the camp being there, independent of the facility it afford-
 1835 "As to Colonel Dunne's Motion on the Curragh arrests, a Committee can ascertain no more that the Returns already given."
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he thought the whole sum spent at Alderney was wasteful and useless. It was therefore time they should stop, more especially after the statement made by the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty, that he would not have been a party to proposing the original Vote for the commencement of the works. If England remained mistress of the Channel, it would be of no additional advantage to her to have a fortress at Alderney; if not, the works would be in the possession of an enemy in twenty-four hours. With an ultimate expenditure of £2,000,000 staring them in
 1858
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he wished to be informed if the £90,000 was for the purpose of completing the work, or whether any further Votes would be asked.
 SIR THOMAS BURKE  said, he regretted that the Government was unwilling to grant the Committee moved for by the hon. and gallant Gentleman. He believed that every one in the neighbourhood was agreed that the stipendiary magistrate had far exceeded his powers.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  said, that having examined the harbour of Alderney, he thought, if it was intended for large ships, that the part of the new works extending the breakwater to the point where the sea was deeper must be finished. If that was done, there would be water enough in the harbour for large ships. The foundations were laid, and if the House determined that the works should be stopped, those
 1854
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  was understood to say, in explanation, that the treaty with Guatemala was not ratified till the month of August, 1859.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  rose to ask Her Majesty's Government, Whether any understanding has been come to with the Government of the Republic of Guatemala with reference to the proposed road to be made from the City of Guatemala to the Atlantic coast? He was sure, seeing the responsibilities which the treaty cast upon the Government, the House would excuse him if he trespassed upon them with a few words. In 1859 a treaty was entered into between Her Majesty's Government and that of Guatemala; the object of which was to define the boundaries of the territories of the republic and of Her Majesty's dominions in that part of the world. It also contained a stipulation by which her Majesty's Government agreed to undertake the liability with the Government of Guatemala of forming a road. In the first place, he could not conceive a principle more objectionable than that this country should enter into liabilities for these kind of public improvements in another country which was quite capable of doing the work without any such assistance. The treaty, upon being brought to this country, was at once ratified by the noble Lord at the head of the Foreign Office. The noble Lord having accepted this responsibility—as he (Mr. Fitzgerald) thought somewhat hastily—it struck him that he should like to know something of the extent of the liability. He was called on to do his part under the treaty in making the road, which was 350 miles long. Major Wray, an engineer officer, was therefore sent out to investigate the matter, and he reported that the expense of making the road would be about £150,000. It appeared, also, that the Government of Guatemala was under the impression that England was to find the money for the road,
 1826 chargé d'affaires
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD : May we expect to have the Papers shortly?
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, he rose to ask Her Majesty's Government, Whether they have received from Her Majesty's Minister at Washington a copy of the Report of the Committee of the House of Representatives of the United States on the operation of the Reciprocity Treaties with Canada; and whether, if such a Report has been received, there is any objection to lay it upon the table of the House?
 SIR WILLIAM GALLWEY : On the letter of August 5.
 SIR WILLIAM GALLWEY : The words "too late" were marked on that letter.
 SIR WILLIAM GALLWEY : It is unfortunate that that letter—
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I think the hon. Baronet who made this Motion ought to be satisfied with having attained what I feel persuaded is his main object—that of having vindicated the character of his friend from any imputation that might have been cast upon it. But, if he be resolved to persist in the Motion, I think he might add a rider; whereas he proposed to appoint a Committee to inquire into the double appointment which he says has been made, he might also move for a Committee to inquire into the double Motion made by the hon. Baronet himself, because he has given a notable example of that change of mind which he condemns in my right hon. Friend. The hon. Baronet, upon full consideration, makes a Motion which, after he finds it inapplicable, he consents, in accordance with the suggestions from another quarter, to alter into a Motion of inquiry into the conduct of my right hon. Friend. Now, I maintain there is no double appointment. The result of the discussion has boon to convince the Mover of this Resolution that there has been no double appointment. He gives up his Motion on that subject, and is content with a Committed to inquire into the conduct of my right hon. Friend. With regard to the appointment in question, nothing could be more absurd than to suppose that the letter offering the appointment constituted the appointment itself. It is childish to suppose such a thing. Does any man imagine, that if Sir Edwin Pearson were to walk into the Commission with that letter in his hand, and to say, "I am your Chairman," he would not be asked, "Where is your appointment?" And when he could not produce it, would he not be told, "Your appointment must be contained in some document from the responsible authorities. You have it not; therefore you are not our Chairman"? Therefore, I am glad that the hon. Baronet has himself acquiesced in the absurdity of his own Motion, and has seen the propriety of altering it into a Motion for a Committee of inquiry into the conduct of my right hon. Friend. My right hon. Friend, perhaps, made a mistake; but it was the first act that was the mistake, and not the second act. He might have made a mistake in offering the appointment to Sir Edwin Pearson—not that any moral imputation rested upon that Gentleman. Indeed, the hon. Member for
 1819 1820
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I do entreat the House to consider this question with calmness, and not only with regard to the nature of the question but the condition in which we now stand. I can quite understand a difference of opinion as to the desirability of the construction of any works at all at Alderney. For my part, I think the fortifications there and the harbour were a wise expenditure of public money. Other persons may entirely differ from that opinion. I do not mean to put my opinion as more entitled to consideration than that of my hon. Friend who made the Motion. But, on the other hand, we have the recorded opinion of the Duke of Wellington—a pretty good judge, it must be admitted, of military considerations. My hon. Friend who made this Motion says, "We are now living in the year of grace 1862; the Duke of Wellington expressed that opinion n any years ago, and things have altered since then." Well, the instruments of war vary from time to time, but the great principles on which war is carried on are pretty much the same in all periods of history. And I believe that the grounds on which the Duke of Wellington thought it advisable, in case of war, that we should have as tation on the one side of the Channel, like Alderney, to communicate with and support a station en the other, like Portland, hold just as good now as at the time when the Duke propounded them, and that the execution of that recommendation is as important now as it was then. But not only have we the deliberate and well-considered opinion of the Duke of Wellington on the subject; we have also the continued stream of action of Government after Government. The present Government are not now proposing far the first time to incur a great expense on a plan which they have originated; they are only carrying on works which were begun years ago, and have been prosecuted by preceding Governments composed of Members on both sides of the House, acting on their own responsibility, after a full consideration of its value and utility, and determined to go on more or less extensively with the undertaking now under discussion. It is said it has been admitted that this is not a harbour of refuge. Well, primarily, it is not a harbour of
 1859
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that such a plan had been laid before Parliament over and over again.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I am quite sure, Sir, that the House would not require any assurance on your part to convince them that in any act, however serious, or of a different character, you would commit them in any way that would be inconsistent with the rules and proceedings of the House. The House has heard the statement of my noble Friend, and they have also heard what you, Sir, have said, and I am persuaded that they will join with me in the hope that there never may be any other or more serious collision or conflict between the two Houses than that which is likely—if it be likely—to occur—a practical trial of skill on the terms and upon the occasion that has been referred to by you and my noble Friend.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Yes.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, by the latest accounts which we have received from Sir Charles Wyke, our Minister in Mexico, who was then at Orizaba, it appears that there was an intention to advance a French corps to the city of Mexico. As to what the intentions of the French Government may be, I can only refer the hon. and learned Baronet to the Convention of October last, recording the intentions of the three Powers for common action in Mexico, and it is not, of course, for a Minister of the British Crown to speak one way or other as to the intentions of any Foreign Government. It may be satisfactory, however, that I should add that, from a Despatch from Sir Charles Wyke, dated the 13th of last month, it appears that he expected on the 17th to have an interview with Senor Doblado, the Mexican Minister of Foreign Affairs, to conclude a Convention for the satisfaction of British claims. My noble Friend at the head of the Foreign Department states that he is quite prepared to lay before Parliament the Papers connected with the transactions in Mexico. That being the case, perhaps the hon. Gentleman who has given notice of the Motion for Tuesday will think it proper to defer that Motion until he has seen the Papers.
 MR. LINDSAY  observed, that the noble Lord, when he stated that France had, built and building, thirty-six iron-clad ships, and that this country had only twenty-five, ought to have mentioned the size of the ships, for that was an important point. Taking the case of  La Gloire Warrior Trent
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, he would not venture to give an opinion in direct contradiction to that of Professor Owen on the scientific question. His plan certainly seemed a very extensive one; but the House should remember that in this, and in most other cases, it was easy to obtain great authorities on either side of the question. There were two points included in the proposition before the House to which he wished to direct attention— the question of finance, and that comprised in the saving clauses of the Bill. He could not agree with the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken that the House was not entitled on that occasion to discuss the financial part of the subject.
 1917 Cries of 1918
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : That makes the case rather worse, because the hon. Member says that this land was bought by the public money. [Mr. H. SEYMOUR: One half part of it.] The land was purchased by the Commissioners of the Exhibition of 1851. But then came another proposal from his hon. Friend in his zeal for economy.
 "—Medio de fonte leporum "Surgit amari aliquid."
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : Sir, this subject is fortunately not new to the House, and I am certainly not desirous of occupying its attention more than a few minutes. The question has undergone so much consideration by different Go-
 1927 Ironical cheers 1928
 MR. HENLEY  said, he did not wish to give a silent vote on what seemed to him a curious Bill; still less so when he heard from his right hon. Friend near him that the sum to be expended was not quite agreed upon. But it was not on account of the disagreement that he objected to the Bill. He objected to it on this simple
 1932
 COLONEL DICKS0N  said, he felt it his duty to call the attention of the Government to the murder which was committed on the person of a young gentleman named Fitzgerald, in the broad day,
 1949 1950
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, that the right hon. Baronet had misunderstood what he said about the tenure of land. He had cast no imputation upon the landlords of Ireland; but what he meant was that the land was the only support of the people, and that the moment they lost their land they were driven to despair and starvation. Some inquiry was needed to see if means could not be devised to put an end to so miserable a state of things.
 LORD NAAS  said, he should protest against the notion that any law to be passed by that House relating to the law of landlord and tenant would be adequate to put down these crimes. The idea of fixity of tenure was a mere delusion, and the sooner it was removed from the minds of the ignorant peasantry the better. He did not recommend the slightest straining or tampering with the law in dealing with these crimes; but the law ought to be rigorously exercised, and the most extraordinary precautions ought to be taken by the Government to prevent the commission of these crimes on persons who were known to be threatened.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Sir, I shall have no objection whatever to the production of these Returns; but, in mercy to himself and the House, I trust the noble Lord, when he hears that inventions in reference to iron-cased ships come to us at the rate of about 100 a month, will not insist on printing such a blue-book as they would make, if carried back to any remote period. I can assure him that they are receiving very careful attention. I cannot follow the noble Lord through all the topics he has introduced, but I shall be happy to give him all the information I can as to what is being done in ship-building. I regret the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli) is not present, as I think he would probably administer some little rebuke to an ardent supporter for coming before the House with a grand proposal for building an iron fleet, and adding very considerably to the large Navy Estimates. The noble Lord accuses all Governments, but lays the principal blame on the present Government, for continuing to build wooden ships after France had begun to build them of iron. I am anxious to say a word on this matter, because I have heard from several quarters that the present Government has proceeded recklessly in the construction of wooden line-of-battle ships long after it was evident that these vessels would be useless. I beg the noble Lord's attention to this point. There
 1943 vexata quastio 1944 Monitor Merrimac Warrior Warrior 1945 1946 matériel Warrior Excellent Cambridge 1947
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : I signed a letter to the hon. Gentleman myself on Monday.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU , in rising to move for Returns upon the subject of iron-plated ships of war, said, that on a late occasion, when he troubled the House with regard to the public expenditure, the Chancellor of the Exchequer recommended that a practical issue should be taken on particular items, in order to secure retrenchment. That was now his object. Since the year 1854, when the value of iron-plated ships had been proved as vessels of war, no less than £10,000,000 had been wasted in building wooden ships; even this year twenty-two ships of 13,900 horsepower were being built; and the Admiralty were about to launch into an enormous expenditure in constructing cupola ships, without knowing what was the best form for such vessels. If the best form were already known, why had it been laid by for eight years, and wooden ships built instead? There might, in a similar manner, be plans of a better form, collecting dust in a pigeon-hole of the Admiralty, which would also not be regarded until they had already done execution in the hands of the Americans. The iron vessels suggested twenty years ago had met the same fate. It was known that iron vessels, of plates only ⅜ in. thick, required few or no repairs. Some had lasted for twenty years with almost no repair. In the merchant service they had for a long time been preferred because of their cheapness; the annual cost of repairs being about one per cent of the original cost. On the other hand, a wooden line-of-battle ship was built, and then laid up in ordinary for four or five years; when the dry rot was found to have invaded her timbers, and half the original cost had to be expended in repairs. Iron ships also retained their form longer than wooden vessels, as the  Mosquito 1934 Fairy Nemesis "The  Nemesis Nemesis Simoom 1935 "The result of the experiment, or rather the conclusion to which we came in consequence of what we had learnt of the iron-cased batteries, was that we were considering whether it would not be advisable to build a ship coated with iron." Q. 51, "In 1854–5 several floating batteries were constructed with iron defence-plates of great thickness. These batteries were never practically tried, although similar batteries belonging to your Majesty's allies were used at Kinburn and found highly efficient. The principle of the protection afforded by iron defence-plates was proved; but no attempt was made to apply it to ships of war generally until 1858." "About five years ago the eminent steam-ship builder of America, Mr. R. L. Stevens, communicated to me the result of a long series of experiments made, at the expense of the United States Government, by himself; the chief practical result of which was, that iron plates of five inches in thickness were absolutely impenetrable by the heaviest shot, fired by the longest guns in the service, the heaviest charge of powder, and at the shortest distance." 1936 "I considered the question of building a vessel specially for this purpose, and I arrived at the conclusion that to this end the cupola ship recommended by Captain Coles would be very well adapted. But the experiment has never been tried; and I therefore caused a tower upon this pattern, which had been commenced a year or two before, to be finished and put on board a ship. The officers reported very favourably." "I was at once satisfied that we had got a vessel which would be most useful for the protection of
 1937 Monitor Merrimac "to pause in the enormous expenditure on wooden line-of-battle ships. …The French are devoting their full energies to the construction of iron-cased ships. …Would it not be well to put a stop to the preparation of timber, &c., for the three new line-of-battle ships ordered to be laid down, and to substitute three iron-cased ships?"—[ Commissions on Naval Yards 1938 Warrior La Gloire Warrior; 1939 Merrimac Liverpool Albion; Q. 1706. "We were strongly of opinion that no time ought to be lost in endeavouring to recover the superiority thus taken by France; but the lead which France had taken was irrecoverable." Q. 5818. "I think there has been a great defect in our naval administration since I have been
 1940 1941 Q. 4021. "I think that the present constitution of the Surveyor's office is very obstructive to improvement. There is not time to give sufficient consideration to scientific inventions and improvements; and there is a disinclination to take the responsibility of making trials of them, until they have become in general use elsewhere." Q. 4069. "Generally speaking, if it is a matter connected with ship building or fitting, it is submitted to the Surveyor of the Navy, and, in common language, he pooh-poohs it.…. I very much question whether you will find one single instance in which an inventor has gone to the surveyor's office and received an acknowledgment of his invention having been good; I never heard of one myself." Q. 4059. "I think that our changes have been generally put off until, from some sudden emergency, they have assumed a hurried appearance, and not been duly considered; whereas, if you had a permanently consulting Committee, you would have moved more gradually, and not in such convulsive starts—more economically, and 1 think more efficiently, without being behind other people." 1942
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the mode in which taxes are now submitted for our consideration, although it may successfully assert the privileges of this House as regards the interference of the House of Lords, has also the effect of curtailing those privileges, and that must be my excuse
 1864 1865 1866 1867 d 1868 1869 1870 1871 1872 tu quoques 1873 1874 1875 1876 1877 1878 d d d 1879 1880 1881 1882 1883 canards 1884
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that he only wished to say one word. He was one of those who had never been in love with the income tax; he considered it oppressive in its nature, and the cause of extravagance in the Government and Legislature. It should be considered rather as a subsidy than as a regular source of revenue. In anything he said he did not wish to he considered as commending the tax. He merely rose to express a hope that in any arrangement the Chancellor of the Exchequer might make with reference to the assessment of the income and property tax he would be careful to strengthen the local machinery—to assist, but not to supersede it. He had received information that alarm had been occasioned in the country by the belief that the tax would be assessed by the Government officials. It was thought that this would be a denial of appeal, as the appeal would be from the Government assessor to the Government. At present it was from the local assessor to the officer in immediate connection with the Government, and that was satisfactory. He hoped, therefore, that the local machinery—which was, perhaps, somewhat rusty —would be rendered more effective rather than be superseded by central authority.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the whole of the present Opposition in 1846 voted against the Bill introduced by Sir Robert Peel, and what was the result? The next Government were compelled to introduce a similar measure. Let the House remember that, and he trusted he should never see any party again take advantage of an opposition to such a Bill to assist them into power. He believed that the crimes which the measure was intended to meet had a political origin, and the system of brigandage which existed in Ireland was fostered by the debates in that House.
 MR. PULLER  said, he had listened with great astonishment to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, which was one of the most remarkable instances of a  petitio principii 1921 1922
 LORD FERMOY  said, he was sorry that the question of landlord and tenant had been raised on that occasion. He should be glad to know if the police who warned M. Thiebault of his danger gave any notice to any local magistrate. [Sir ROBERT PEEL: The matter was very generally talked about.] The local magistracy were generally ignored by the police. No reports were made to them, and the preservation of the peace was too much left to the police on the one hand, and the stipen diary magistrate and the authorities in Dublin on the other. Until the Government took the gentry into their confidence, they would never govern the country efficiently.
 MR. HUNT  said, he thought that the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) could not be at all aware of the
 1897 1898 1899
 MR. SCLATER BOOTH  observed, that they had been many years employed in concentrating the public offices, but the Bill was one for separating a great department. The trustees of the British Museum had conducted the business in Russell Square very much through the hands of their secretaries; and if the management were to continue as hitherto, after effect had been given to the proposed removal, there would be a divided, and perhaps conflicting administration, which would lead to great expense and great uncertainty, and no one would be satisfied. He thought, therefore, before they consented to the second reading of the Bill, the House should understand that the trustees of the Museum had some plan for dividing the government, so that the department at South Kensington should not be interfered with, or be under the influence or control of the central department in Russell Square. If that were not so, constant complaints would arise, and dissatisfaction would exist between the officers of the Museum. In the event of the natural history collection being removed, it would be absolutely necessary to have a further large outlay
 1920
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, that if a foreigner had been listening to the debate of that evening, it must have struck him that it was, to say the least, a rather curious coincidence that a proposal to vote £600,000 for a new collection of birds, beasts, and fishes at South Kensington should have been brought forward on the very evening when the leader of the Opposition had made a speech denouncing their exorbitant expenditure—a speech, he might add, which was re-echoed by many Liberal Members in that House, as well as by the press generally throughout the country. The Government might be said to be employed at present in digging its own grave. The expenditure about to be made so recklessly was not one on which people were agreed. There were many who thought that the money might be more beneficially applied in other directions for the promotion of art. Far from thinking it desirable that the collections should be separated, he could not conceive a more fortunate circumstance than that they should be near one another, because they knew that a simply scientific mind was too apt to despise the works of imagination, and ima-
 1919
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, the land would bring £10,000 per acre. What he proposed was that the Commissioners should give the land, which was half paid for by public money, that it should be sold, and the proceeds be applied to purchase land near the Museum.
 MR. WHITE  said, that the noble Viscount had alluded to his Motion for a reduction of the army by 10,000 men. He would admit that on that occasion he was not very well supported, as only eleven Members voted with him. But he had since received assurances from a number of Members expressing great regret that they had not voted with him in that division. On another occasion, when the opinion of the House would be tested again, the numbers would therefore be much more considerable. He could assure the noble Lord that, in consequence of what he had said, and of the promises of support which he (Mr. White) had received, should he have the honour of a seat in that
 1902 1903
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, it was a matter of painful consideration that while intense distress had prevailed in many parts of the west of Ireland, crimes of unusual atrocity should have been perpetrated in the south. Something had been said of uncommon modes of vindicating the justice of the country. He knew of no mode but one—the honest, prompt, efficient, and impartial administration of the law; and he did not believe that, in the hands of a firm and competent Executive, that mode could fail. Some eight years ago, when the Earl of Eglinton, first became Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, the new Irish Government found Louth in a state infinitely worse than anything he had heard of that night. Several gentlemen had received notices to prepare for death, and one was actually attacked and wounded. However, there was no violence done to the law or the justice of the country, and he recollected the Earl of Eglinton saying to the head of the police, that no Government was fit to exist which could not protect life and property. All the gentlemen who had received notices were protected, he would not say how; the guilty suffered the penalty of their crimes, and that district of Ireland had been perfectly quiet ever since. In those instances, many of which it was his duty to investigate, he never
 1953
 MR. BRADY  said, he should oppose the Bill. It could have no earthly effect in preventing crime, which could be traced distinctly to the question of tenure of land.
 MR. BONHAM-CARTER  said, that his information to a great extent confirmed the statement of the hon. Gentleman; but he thought that much weight was due to the observation of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that a great deal of the inconvenience had arisen from the fault of the local assessors. A very considerable number of the Commissioners were in favour of the assessment being more under the control of the Government; and he himself could speak from personal experience of great inconvenience being caused by there not being sufficient control over a young surveyor. He thought that considerable improvement might be effected by giving to those who had to make returns a notice which should be a little fuller and clearer.
 MR. LAIRD  said, he wished to know if he had rightly understood the noble Lord to say that he had been appointed a Member of the Committee to which he had referred.
 MR. LANIGAN  said, the crimes arose entirely out of the tenure of land question.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he differed from the noble Lord as to the advisability of altering the law of landlord and tenant. The present law was in the most unsatisfactory condition possible. He believed, if the law were improved, the hand of the murderer would be struck down, and that he would be tracked to justice by the hands of the peasantry themselves. He was no friend to Ireland who did not advocate an alteration in that law. The question was whether the Bill should be read a third time or not; but had a single reason been alleged for the Motion? In Leitrim there was a proclaimed district, and what had the Bill done for that district? He believed the laws properly administered were adequate to deal with the state of thing, and he protested against the Bill as useless and unnecessary.
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  said, he would beg to ask the hon. Member for North Wilts, Whether he proposes to take any steps in this House in pursuance of the Motion recently carried with reference to Church Rates?
 MR. O'BRIEN  said, he did not think that a change in the organization of the constabulary would effect any good. Some of his hon. Friends had formed erroneous opinions upon that subject. A police force that would be merely detectives in every village, would be objects of suspicion to those who committed petty larceny and other small crimes, and would not be so popular with the people as the present system.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, that he for one would accept the advice of the Secretary for War, and would confine himself in the few remarks he had to make, to criticising, not the details, but the outlines of the Bill; and he must say that in the speeches made in its support he remarked one singular omission. They had had an aesthetic speech from the hon. Member for Pontefract (Mr. M. Milnes), who, eschewing all notion of economy,
 1929 School for Scandal 1930 Origin of Species "What brought Sir Visto's ill-got wealth to waste? "Some demon"— — "whisper'd, 'Visto ! have a taste.' "
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  lamented that the subject of landlord and tenant had ever been introduced. He, for one, could not parley with assassins. When persons were lying dead was no time to make election speeches. The British House of Commons could never for one minute parley with assassins. Let justice take its course, but let not apologies be made and sympathy almost be expressed with assassins. The police were excellent as a military body, but they were totally inefficient as detective police. The police officers were above their duty, owing to the system of competitive examination. In Dublin they had a mess and a band, and there was such a system of centralization going on as would be most disastrous in its results. The day was fast coming when the whole, system of the executive would have to be overhauled. From the Lord Lieutenant
 1957
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES : Sir, it was the saying of an old wit that whenever there was a topic in vogue he went out of town, by which, I suppose, he meant that when there was any idea very prevalent in the minds of people it was apt to infect all their conversation and views on other subjects, to pervert in some degree their judgment and even to render them dull. Although the last malady has not overtaken my hon. Friend who has just sat down, he has allowed himself to be too much engrossed by the prevalent topic of economy. If subjects like this, involving great public interests, are converted into mere questions of economy, they are apt to sink somewhat in the respect of the public. Such matters are entitled to be judged on their own merits. I do not see, moreover, that the question of economy is very much affected by the Bill before us. It is intended to authorize the trustees to remove certain portions of the national collection to some other locality, but contains no reference whatever to the cost of the operation, or to the different plans which may be adopted. My hon. Friend has anticipated all those questions which may be brought legitimately before the House when we are desired to vote the money for the alterations. The Bill gives the Government no power to appropriate any money to carrying it out, and whatever the sum required may be—a million, or half-a-million—it can only be voted after full discussion on the Estimate. The object of this Bill is one which I have long had at heart, because I have always been of opinion that the British Museum ought to be divided, and that the proper method in which to carry out that division was to remove the natural history collection to some other locality. In this opinion I have had the support of the best officers of the institution and of almost every authority abroad. In no other country could the collection under one roof of this enormous and heterogeneous collection of articles have occurred, and in England it was not the result of any system of theory,
 1914 1915 Origin of Species 1916
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, as one of those who have taken some interest in the proposals before the House, perhaps I may be permitted to say a few words in support of the Bill of my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer. I do so the more willingly, because I believe it is known to those who take an interest, in the British Museum that up to this time I have always been of opinion, that it would be better to enlarge the Museum buildings than separate the collection, and take a portion of it to another place. I wish to guard myself on this point, because I still think, that if it could be done, we ought to enlarge and extend the present Museum so as to keep the collection together; but I shall presently bring before the House the reasons which have convinced me that we have no longer to deal with this question as a matter of choice, but as a matter of necessity. The House may judge, from the diversity of opinions expressed in the course of this debate, of the very great difficulty there is in dealing with this subject in a satisfactory manner. Of those who have spoken,
 1923 1924 1925 res integra 1926
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT : My answer, Sir, on this subject must be looked upon as the answer of an individual Member; but I consider that I have entered into an engagement with the House of Commons, individually, for the Resolution which was adopted at my suggestion last Wednesday, and I shall do my best to induce the House to affirm some principle upon which legislation may hereafter proceed. Accordingly, on Friday next, I will give a notice on the subject, unless I hear from the Government meanwhile that they are disposed to take up the matter, which I think they should do.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, the House was agreed in opinion as to the atrocity of these outrages, and the necessity of preventing them by any means known to the law. He himself would vote for any measures, however stringent, having that object; but he believed these Peace Preservation Acts were utterly ineffectual, and that the constabulary, by the military character of their training, were powerless for the detection and suppression of crime. The root of the evil, however, lay in the land system; for Sir Matthew Barrington, in 1852, declared, as the result of thirty years' experience, that there had not been a single occurrence of a nature similar to those which lately attracted attention, which was not traceable either to the eviction of tenants or to the changes in the ownership of land. That it was idle to proclaim districts was shown by the fact that murderers always
 1955
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I stated generally in introducing this Bill what was its general character and purport; and, in point of fact, the object and the justification of the measure will be best gathered from the papers laid upon the table. These papers show in what manner the Government and a large majority of the trustees have arrived at the conclusion that it is necessary to separate the collections of the British Museum; and, taken in conjunction with other papers, they also show what are the collections which the trustees and the Government have, upon the whole, deemed it most expedient to remove from the present site to one at a considerable distance. As respects the measures which are intended to be taken for this purpose, the Bill itself completes, in the main, the necessary explanations. The site to which it is intended to remove is perhaps the only
 1904 1905 1906
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I must take the liberty of telling the hon. Member for Northamptonshire, that I think two of the steps taken by him in this matter are very inconvenient. In the first place, he has, unfortunately caused to be laid upon the table a Return which is wholly fallacious, and which gives unjust and inaccurate expression of the case. Any one would suppose from that Return, that the surveyor had had to deal with some 900 cases, in the majority of which he had been wrong. I must again remind the House that the surveyor, in consequence of the total break-down of the local machinery, was called upon to go down and to deal with 6,000 cases. Of that number in only one in six were there appeals. In only one out of eight of those cases was the surveyor's judgment at all declared to be wrong, and in one out of fifteen only was he declared to be entirely wrong. I must again express my sincere regret that the hon. Member, in discharging the duty which it was quite right for him to have undertaken, has taken such insufficient means of bringing the truth before the House. But I must also venture to say, that nothing can be more inconvenient
 1900 1901
 MR. COGAN  said, that the sole object of Irish Members ought at present to be to express their abhorrence of the crimes which had stained their country, and to support the Government in the adoption of measures to prevent their repetition. The constabulary force was more an army of occupation than a police force, and measures ought to be adopted to make it more efficient for the detection of crime; and he would also suggest the desirability of bringing it more in contact with the magistracy, as in England. It was understood that the murderer in one of the recent cases was a returned convict, and he would further recommend that some supervision should be provided when returned convicts were let loose upon society. He was opposed to the taking of anything like hasty vengeance for the recent murders. The duty of the Government was calmly to mete out justice, and not to execute revenge. What was wanted was, not that a victim should be sacrificed, but that the guilty parties should be brought to punishment.
 MR. COX  said, the Bill involved an expense of nearly £700,000. As the national expenditure was £70,000,000, and as the noble Lord did not hold out the slightest hope of reducing it, he hoped the House would not sanction a further outlay, for which no necessity whatever had been proved. Under present circumstances they might very well wait until they saw the result of the right hon. Gentleman's (Mr. Disraeli's) administration. When they had realized the reduction of the five or six millions per annum which the right hon. Gentleman had shadowed forth, it would be time to talk not about removing any portion of the Museum, but about adopting the plan which the right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken admitted that he should himself prefer, and having one great collection in one building. Besides, he (Mr. Cox) did not think the scheme proposed was the best that could be adopted, even if the division of the collection was really a necessity. After the experience they had had of the tens of thousands of persons who every holiday visited the Museum, they must be aware that the natural history collections were precisely those which afforded most amusement, and, he hoped, instruction to the masses. If, therefore, they must take anything to the West End, it should be not that which interested the millions, but that which interested the few. He must say he had been much struck with the phraseology of the schedules contained in the Bill. It was not stated what was intended to be removed, but what was "capable of being removed." Surely books and manuscripts and antiquities were as capable of being removed as the natural history collections. If the books were removed, they would be removed from a place where they could be generally used to a place where they would be used in a very minor degree, because they would be removed from a very populous to a less populous locality.
 MR. GREGORY  said, he felt exceedingly sorry that the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli) was not in his place, because in the remarks which a few minutes before he had made upon the finances of the country he had observed upon the great discrepancy of opinion with regard to the expenditure in our museums; and if he had been present, would surely have reiterated those statements, and would have been of opinion that the time had come to make a stand against the enormous expenditure proposed in the scheme of the Government. He (Mr. Gregory) was not one of those who had opposed in
 1907 "Her Majesty's Government, we trust, will never yield to the argument, that because in some countries the products of nature and art are exhibited in distinct establishments, therefore a like arrangement must be copied here. Let us, on the contrary, rejoice in the fact that we have realized what no other country can boast—a vast and harmonious collection of art and science, round a library which illustrates part of each branch of knowledge." 1908 "Due regard being had to the utmost economy, he should require for the proper exhibition of the collections of his department, and the accessions likely to accrue in thirty years, a building of one story covering more than ten acres, or a building of two stories covering five acres." 1909 in toto 1910 1911 1912 1913
 MR. MONSELL  said, he entirely agreed that the law, if firmly and properly administered, was sufficient to repress such crimes as those which had recently occurred. But, as representing the county where the murders had taken place, he
 1954 quasi
 MR. W. R. ORMSBY GORE  said, that in South Leitrim there had recently been a great deal of crime; but the provisions of this Act had enabled the magistrates to prevent much more. He regretted that
 1952
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he wished the House to bear in mind that the Museum was established not merely for the upper ten thousand, but for the working classes also. He thought that wherever was the focus of population, there the national museum ought to be.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : My right hon. Friend the Chief Secretary has already stated that he deprecates any departure from the ordinary forms of law, and that it is the duty of the Government—a duty it is now fulfilling—to endeavour to bring the perpetrators of the recent murders to justice by a prompt, firm, and impartial administration of the law. He informed the House that the police have already apprehended some of the persons suspected of having committed these murders, and that as soon as the Government feel that those persons can be put upon their trial with a reasonable hope of a conviction, no time will be lost in bringing them before a jury according to the ordinary forms of the law. If the Government were to pledge itself to issue a special commission, it might take a step calculated to defeat the very purpose for which the law is to be enforced. Its first duty is to collect evidence, and then, instead of taking any steps of a vindictive nature, it must follow that course which it may think best fitted for bringing the criminals to justice.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, that the difficulty which a preliminary exciting discussion, like the one just terminated, threw in the way of those who really desired to address the House on the subject of the Bill before it, was very great. The Bill itself was the most volu-
 1896 omnium gatherum
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he much regretted that there was no tribunal before which inventors might have their plans and projects properly investigated by scientific men. A vast number of them were mere rubbish, and might be discarded at once. The noble Lord said the Admiralty had seven different descriptions of iron ships in a progressive stage of construction. That was a state of things which he considered peculiarly alarming, especially when taken in connection with what he afterwards stated, that in the race of construction we were certain to succeed. The noble Lord had formerly praised the  Warrior 1948 Warrior Warrior Warrior Royal Sovereign
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : It is unnecessary for me to say that Her Majesty's Government share with the hon. and gallant Gentleman and the House the deep feeling of horror and detestation of these crimes, but it is obviously impossible for the Government to foresee occurrences, or to prevent the commission of such murders us have occurred in Tipperary and Mayo. The hon. and gallant Gentleman suggested that there should be some summary jurisdiction to hang the murderers in three days; but I think, in his calmer moments, he will see that, it will be better to have recourse to the issuing of a Special Commission. That is a rapid way of dealing with criminals, and I think it is better to act with forbearance and judgment than to rush at once upon the unhappy prisoners, and, without following the forms of law, to execute them as the hon. and gallant Member suggests. [Colonel DICKSON: I did not say without form of law.] I am anxious that there should be as summary a jurisdiction as is consistent with the forms of the law, but I should be the last man to wish to see a prisoner executed without a fair and lawful trial. The murder to which the hon. and gallant Gentleman has referred was committed on the afternoon of the 16th. The murderers escaped and got some distance off, but that very night one of them was apprehended and taken back, and identified by Mrs. Fitzgerald, and has since been committed to gaol. The other has escaped; but we have sent to Cork, to another port, and to Liverpool, in order to render it impossible that he should effect his escape to America
 1951 "In the midst of all the abuse of the constabulary, it is something to see how promptly in every one of these terrible tragedies the murderer has been taken, almost with a red hand. The difficulty we have to overcome is the determination of the people to screen the murderers."
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, it was only due to the Government to correct the error which appeared to exist as to Mr. Thiebault not having been warned. He had been told that he was in danger, and two policemen were placed at his disposal; but he would not accept their protection, or admit that his life was in peril.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON :—Sir, undoubtedly, this is a question involving a principle of economy. But the curious circumstance connected with the debate is, that those gentlemen in this House who profess themselves to be the stoutest advocates for economy are recommending that plan which would be by far the most expensive. It is admitted by all that the present building of the Museum is choke-full of objects. With regard to natural
 1931
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, the first duty which, under present circumstances, I feel it incumbent on me to perform is to assure the right hon. Gentleman, that if on a former occasion I stated that the assertion which he made, not on his own authority—of course, he could know nothing about it—but upon the assertion of some one else, as of course it was—did not accord with the facts, nothing could have been further from my intention—I should be ashamed of myself if I had any such intention—than to impute to the right hon. Gentleman that he had stated anything which he did not himself believe to be perfectly true. I am surprised, in fact, he could have supposed that I meant anything of the kind, because, if my memory serves me rightly, I went on to say that the right hon. Gentleman must have been deceived by some information which he had received, and I cautioned him not to trust to the same source in future, inasmuch as that information was totally devoid of foundation. To the latter part of the right hon. Gentleman's speech I may be allowed to refer in the first instance. He stated on a former evening that Washington was the scene of intrigue between the English Minister and the French Minister. He has again stated that they are undermining each other by their intrigues, and that it is a struggle between them for influence. That assertion I denied when the right hon. Gentleman made the statement on a former evening, and I repeat the denial now. Every one who knows Lord Lyons knows that a man like him, who is a mirror of honour and frankness and straightforward dealing, would be incapable of intriguing and planning against a colleague in any country to which he is accredited.
 1885 1886 Cries of 1887 1888 1889 1890 1891 1892 1893 Merrimac Monitor Monitor 1894 1895
 MR. ASPINALL TURNER  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Why the Trade and Navigation Returns do not include the quantities of Foreign manufactured Paper imported into this country as well as the quantities of British manufactured Paper
 1960
 MR. COWER  said, that the restoration would probably be complete early next year, but he was unable to inform the hon. Member as to the prospect of the crypt being used for Divine Service.
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, he was anxious to know, Whether the news by the last Bombay mail confirmed the frequently repeated statement that the Persians had advanced upon Herat?
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  moved for leave to bring in a Bill for the more speedy trial of certain homicides committed by persons subject to the Mutiny Act, and for giving jurisdiction to the Central Criminal Court to inquire into such homicides. The measure was intended to meet such a class of cases as had occurred frequently of late—namely, the murder of officers of the army by privates. Various plans had been under the consideration of the Government for the amendment of the law applicable to such crimes. On the whole, however, they did not think it desirable to do more than to take steps to accelerate the course of justice in such cases. There was already an act by which any criminal case could be removed to the Central Criminal Court, where the sessions were held monthly; but that Act was limited to cases where bills of indictment had been found by grand juries. The present measure was intended to adapt the provisions of the Act to those military crimes, but to provide that when a prisoner had been committed to prison on the warrant of a magistrate, such party might be tried at the Central Criminal Court without waiting for the finding of a bill of indictment by a grand jury.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to appropriate certain portions of land lying between high and low water mark, situate in the parishes of Shoebury and Wakering, in the county of Essex, as ranges for the use and practice of artillery. The right hon. Gentleman said the object of the measure was to prevent accidents during the use and practice of artillery. The measure simply pro-
 1970
 MR. HENLEY  said, he could not say he regretted that his right hon. Friend had taken the course which he had done in this matter. It was very advisable that any measure to give security to depositors in the ordinary savings banks should, as far as possible, be taken with the consent of the persons who had the management of those banks, and he was not without hopes that this might be accomplished. This was a great point, and the delay might be advantageous if that desirable result could be obtained. He was not without hope, that if proper steps were taken, perfect security to the depo-
 1974
 MR. HENLEY  hoped that in Committee that part of the Bill which related to the visitation of Chancery lunatics would be amended. It had been proved before the Committee, that when a person visiting Chancery lunatics saw something that he thought it would be beneficial to the lunatic to mention, such was the machinery of the Court of Chancery that the statement was struck out of his report as impertinent, he not having been directed to ask any questions upon that particular point. He hoped, therefore, the visitors would have full power to report anything which they considered it was for the advantage of the lunatic to make known, whether the Chancery people thought the information impertinent or not. He also thought the period of six months should be changed, as, although it was intended that the visitation should take place four times a year, yet if the visitors went at the beginning of one period of six months, and at the end of the succeeding period, there would be only two visits a year. In the Bill, as it stood, medical evidence was to be excluded; but if that provision were maintained, a greater anomaly than any which now existed would occur; because, while medical evidence would be excluded in the cases of Chancery lunatics, the number of whom was comparatively small, the great muss of lunatics, not Chancery lunatics—some 29.000 in number—were confined upon medical certificates alone. The opinions of medical men who had not seen the lunatic, but only heard the evidence of witnesses concerning him, ought not to be admitted; but medical men in their certificates were required to state the facts which had led them to their conclusions; and it was absurd, that while lunacy was regarded as a disease, the medical man who had seen and examined the patient should not be allowed to express his opinion in reference to symptoms which a non-medical man would not have observed.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that as there would be an opportunity for full discussion upon details in Committee, he would only notice one or two points that had been raised that evening. Objection had been taken to the limitation of the inquiry into the state of mind and conduct of the alleged lunatic to two
 1987
 MR. AYRTON  said, that he had cooperated with the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. S. Estcourt) in bringing forward the measure, the object of which was to give the best security they could to depositors short of a direct pecuniary guarantee on the part of the Government. The Bill sought to effect that object in two ways: first, by taking care that there should be an efficient body of managers, and by taking care also that those managers performed their duty in seeing that the officers of the bank brought the money paid in by the depositors to ac count. The measure had been intended 88 a boon to the managers of savings banks; but, unfortunately, some of these parties regarded it in the light rather of an obstruction than a benefit, and under those circumstances he was afraid he must re commend the right hon. Gentleman to withdraw it, because he felt it would be hopeless to attempt to pass a measure of this kind without the general sanction of the gentlemen concerned. In that event, however, a grave responsibility would rest on some one, for it was the bounden duty of the House to see that the law offered. every reasonable security to depositors, who were generally of a class ill able to form a sound opinion with regard to the minute details of the system. Unless the right hon. Gentleman succeeded in bringing in a Bill more generally acceptable, he thought it would be the duty of the Government to introduce a measure giving every reasonable security to depositors, though, of course, having savings banks of their own, they could not now be expected to give a pecuniary guarantee.
 MR. LAYARD  agreed with the hon. Member for West Norfolk (Mr. Bentinck) that the fishermen were a valuable and meritorious body of men, and were entitled to the protection of the Government and the House. It was perfectly true that they had some grievances to complain of, but they did not extend quite so far as the hon. Gentleman represented. He complained that the highest penalty warranted by the Convention between France and England was inflicted upon them; but the French authorities had a perfect right to avail themselves of either punishment prescribed by the Convention. The fact was, these fishermen were in the habit of occasionally defying the French authorities and exposing themselves to capture by French cruisers. This naturally excited a feeling of exasperation against them, and the French courts had inflicted upon them the highest penalty. But the real grievance was this:—By the 69th article of the Convention all transgressions of the regulations established for the protection of the fisheries lying between the English coast and France were to be submitted to the exclusive jurisdiction of the magistrates designated by law in each country;
 1964
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : I have received, Sir, information by the last mail that the statement is not true. The Persians do not seem to have moved any where.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  expressed his concurrence in the remarks of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He was glad to hear that the Post Office Savings Banks were working so well, and expressed his opinion that the Post Office Banks would ultimately swallow up all the old banks.
 MR. BENTINCK  moved an Address for Return of all British and French Fishing Boats which have been captured during the last ten years for the infringement of the Convention of 1843, and of the punishments inflicted in both countries in those cases; and Copy of all Correspondence which has passed on the subject of
 1961 1962 maximum
 MR. BENTINCK  said, that after the assurance that had been given by the hon. Member that negotiations were taking place he would not press his Motion. With reference, however, to the observation that the French Government had a perfect right, under the terms of the Convention, to inflict the punishment of detention, he must observe that it was the duty of Her Majesty's Government to take care that fair and equal justice should be done, and that the same description of punishment should be inflicted in both countries for the same kind of offence.
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, In what state the crypt of St. Stephen's Hall now is, and whether there is any prospect of its being used for Divine Service?
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  fully concurred in all that had fallen from the Chancellor of the Exchequer as to the position and character of the right hon. Member for North Wiltshire and his peculiar ability and fitness for the task he had undertaken, and regretted the announcement he felt himself called upon to make. He trusted that the right hon. Gentleman would impress on the managers with whom he would come in contact the great responsibility which they had incurred by year after year defeating the attempts of successive Chancellors of the Exchequer to amend the law with regard to savings banks. The state of that law was most anomalous. It was not sufficient that any hon. Member should be able to say that these banks were generally well managed; but it was a disgrace to the country and to that House that any law should exist under which it was possible that such things should occur as the public were unfortunately familiar with—the failure of savings banks. These banks had been just sufficiently tampered with by Acts of Parliament to create an impression of absolute security, but the House had altogether neglected to take precautions to ensure that such belief was well founded.
 MR. BRADY  said, there was one feature in the affair which he could not pass over without some notice. He alluded to the testimony of the medical officers, which proved that they were most inhuman in their conduct towards the poor creature. One medical man deposed that she died from congestion of the lungs, while at the same time he stated that he made only an external examination. Now, as a medical man himself, he arraigned that opinion, believing that the cold which the unfortunate old woman endured was the chief cause of her death. It was as clear as possible that the evidence of the medical men was not such as ought to have been given, but that they were under the influence of a certain power, which pre vented their giving the evidence they should have done. He trusted that when the subject next came under their consideration the House would mark its sense of the treatment shown to this poor creature by requiring a much more severe punishment to be visited upon the author of this inhumanity than that which he had already received from the head of the magistracy of Ireland. He held that it was not fit or right that any gentleman should hold the commission of the peace who was capable of committing such acts
 1969
 MR. HENNESSY  seconded the Motion.
 MR. M'MAHON  observed, that it was
 1968
 MR. O'BRIEN  rose to move that there be laid before the House—
 "Copies of the Depositions taken at a Coroner's Inquest held at Tullamore, in the King's County, on the 3rd day of January 1862, on the body of Alice Delin, who had been imprisoned in the county jail for seven days: "Of the Order or Conviction (if any), and of the Committal, under which she was so imprisoned: "Of the Entry (if any) of such Order or Conviction in the Petty Sessions Order Book of the district, and of all Entries or Orders appearing on the page of the said Order Book in which such Conviction or Order is entered: "Return stating when and from whom the said Conviction or Order was received by the clerk of Petty Sessions, when he made an entry of the same in the order book, and in whose handwriting the original of said Order or Conviction and the signature thereto is: "Copy of the Informations sworn against the said Alice Delin: "Return stating in whose handwriting the original of said Informations is, where they were written, and also whether the prisoner, the deponent, or any justice of the peace were present while such Informations were being written, and also if the prisoner was present when such Informations were afterwards sworn: "And, Copy of any Correspondence of any members of the Irish Government in relation to the above case." 1966 1967
 MR. MALINS  said, that he regarded many parts of the Bill with approval, but as to some points he concurred in the opinion of the hon. and learned Member for Belfast (Sir Hugh Cairns.) He objected to the clause which limited the inquiry to a period of two years; and he could not understand why the opinions of medical men should be excluded whilst the opinions of all other persons were admitted in evidence. He hoped that the Government would modify these parts of the Bill. He must express his surprise at hearing his right hon. Friend (Mr. Walpole) say that there ought to be even the possibility of a man being treated as a lunatic without his having the option of going before a jury; for though it was perfectly true that out of 328 cases of lunacy there were only twenty-one in which juries were required, still it was impossible to compute how many more charges of lunacy there would have been if the alleged lunatics had no power to demand a jury. No man, in his opinion, should be confined as a lunatic until the question of his sanity or insanity had been decided by a jury. The advantage of the right to demand a jury was shown forcibly in the Windham case; for if there had been no power to demand a jury, that gentleman would, no doubt, have been treated as a lunatic for the whole or a large portion of his life. There was a case, some years ago, in Wales, where a man's family combined to charge him with lunacy; but the jury were unanimously of opinion that he was of perfectly sound mind, and he had managed himself and his affairs ever since; though, but for having a jury, there might have been this monstrous injustice that the man would have been treated as of unsound mind. He entirely agreed with having only twelve instead of twenty-three
 1986
 MR. WALPOLE  agreed with the Committee which inquired into the subject that there was no reason why Chancery Commissioners should be appointed at considerable expense to pay rare visits to Chancery lunatics, when every other lunatic in the kingdom was visited much more frequently by persons who were well acquainted with all the circumstances of each individual case, and who were much more competent to the work than any Chancery visitors that could be selected. The only reason that could be alleged for the appointment of Chancery Commissioners was, that the ordinary Commissioners in Lunacy might not be able so conveniently among themselves to arrange for the supervision of Chancery lunatics, in case there should be an interference on the part of some Chancery authority. He could not understand, however, why there should be any interference on the part of the Chancery authorities, or why Chancery lunatics should not be visited by the same persons who took charge of every other class of lunatics in the kingdom. The present Bill was, no doubt, a great improvement upon the existing law, and he was not prepared to oppose the second reading; but he should probably think it right in Committee to propose another method of supervising Chancery lunatics. He gave his cordial assent to that part of the Bill which extended the existing provisions for applying the property of Chancery lunatics more conveniently for their comfort, and he should be glad to see those clauses passed into law. The only other part of the measure upon which he wished to make one or two observations was the way in which it was proposed to deal with those alleged lunatics against whom commissions might be issued, and the mode of inquiry into the state of their mind. Per-
 1983 1984 1985
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he had brought in this Bill in connection with some hon. Friends, including his hon. and learned Friend who had just spoken, whose assistance he begged to acknowledge, believing that its operation would afford better security for depositors, and would also affect the managers of savings banks beneficially. He had, however, received within, the last few months numerous representations from managers and others in different parts of the country urging in some cases that the Bill was inapplicable to their particular circum stances, and in others alleging that, whether rightly or wrongly, great apprehensions as to its operation were entertained by managers and trustees. He should not have felt himself justified in assenting to the request which they all put forward that the Bill should be withdrawn for the present Session, if it were not that he had that very day received from an influential body of managers of savings banks, gentlemen of great experience and fully to be depended upon, an assurance, that if he consented to withdraw this Bill, they would endeavour to devise a Bill the provisions of which would, in their opinion, meet the requirements of their different establishments. On the other hand, he had assured those gentlemen, in the name of his hon. Friends as well as his own, that they could not accept any Bill until they were perfectly satisfied that its provisions would afford the requisite security to depositors. He cordially concurred with his hon. and learned Friend opposite in hoping that some measure might ultimately be devised which would have the effect of remedying the present very un satisfactory condition of the law. He trusted the Government would be induced to take charge of the question: but should they not do so, he would do his best to remove these small imperfections which still attached to the law of savings banks. Under these circumstances, he asked for leave to withdraw the Bill.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  in reply said, the reason why the Trade and Navigation Returns did not contain the quantity of Foreign Paper imported was that they were Returns of only the principal articles imported, and the Foreign Paper was not sufficiently large in quantity to justify its separate mention; but, should it become an important article of import, it would be duly specified. There would be no objection to give the Return for which the hon. Member asked if he would move for it.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he regretted very much that the labours of his right hon. Friend had not come to a different conclusion than had the labours of those who, with the advantages or disadvantages of official position, had previously attempted to deal with this subject. The question had been for a long time handled by those who had successively filled the office of Chancellor of the Exchequer, but who had. not succeeded in persuad-
 1972 1973
 MR. COGAN  tendered his thanks to the hon. Member for the King's County for having ably and dispassionately brought this matter forward. For the first time the fact had been ascertained that the Lord Chancellor had felt it is duty to severely reprimand Mr. Trench; and it was there fore acknowledged that the conduct of that magistrate was not capable of any defence. Before any further discussion took place on the matter, the papers ought to be produced, and then, after a careful consideration of the Lord Chancellor's letter, it would be for the House to decide whether a sufficient punishment had been inflicted upon Mr. Trench, or whether it might not be better that the bench of justice should no longer have him as one of its occupants.
 SIR DAVID DUNDAS  approved generally of this Bill, which introduced a great improvement in the law, but he was opposed to the third clause, regarding the limitation of the inquiry. The limit of two years was a monstrous interference with the rule of evidence. Surely the question of the sanity or the insanity of a Chancery lunatic was as much a question of fact as the competency of a testator to execute a will, or the question whether a man's state of mind was such as to make him accountable for a murder. In such cases even the fact that a man's father was a lunatic might be material. He did not think that the Judges would like the discretionary power which was given them in this matter, which would necessarily lead to a difference in the practice of the courts.
 SIR GEORGE GREY,  in moving the second reading of the Bill, which had come down from the House of Lords, said, that the Bill related almost exclusively, to Chancery lunatics. One object of the measure was to amend the mode of procedure in Commissions of Lunacy issued by the Lord Chancellor, so as not to exhaust the whole of the property of a lunatic or alleged lunatic in the expenses incidental to the Commission. The Bill also gave the Lord Chancellor additional power to apply properties of small amount for the benefit of lunatics, when satisfied that there was foundation for the allegation of lunacy; and the third object was to provide for the more effectual visitation of Chancery lunatics. There was also a clause which would enable the Lord Chancellor to make provision for criminal lunatics. The Bill was, in fact, an Amendment of the Act of 1853, introduced and passed by Lord St. Leonards when he held the office of Lord Chancellor, and which introduced most valuable alterations in the law of lunacy; and the two latter objects had already been the subject of Bills introduced into that House by the hon. and learned Member for Belfast (Sir H. Cairns). The necessity for the first part of the pre sent Bill had been suggested by the recent case of Mr. Windham, which had attracted public attention in consequence of the length of time it lasted, and the enor-
 1975 1976 Journal of Mental Science "At the first blush of this we were inclined to feel professional vanity not a little wounded, but we are bound to ask, not whether the provision is flattering, but whether it is calculated to promote the public interests by rendering judicial proceedings more certain and simple. The broad position taken by the Lord Chancellor is, that in inquisitions of lunacy the question mooted is the existence or non-existence of certain states of mind as a matter of common observation; it is not whether these states of mind are or are not conditions of disease, but whether it is a fact that they exist, and he maintains that the proof of this fact must depend on that kind of evidence which appeals to the understanding, and which gains the belief of common men unlearned in the subtleties of physiology or metaphysics. The plain expression of an empirical knowledge of observed facts relating to the mind of an alleged lunatic is the very thing which the provision contained in the Lord Chancellor's Bill aims to substitute for those speculative views and theoretical opinions which have in lunacy trials been the cause of so much waste of public time and patience, and of so much discredit to our profession." 1977 1978 1979
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he did not rise to offer any opposition to the Bill, in the greater part of the provisions of which he fully concurred. With respect to the visitation of lunatics, and the mode of dealing with small properties, it would be extremely useful; and he regarded the proposed change, by which the inquiries before a jury respecting lunacy were to be made by an issue to one of the Superior Courts of common law, as a great improvement. It was impossible to find fault with the way in which the officers before whom these investigations had hitherto taken place had conducted the inquiries; but, as the Secretary of State remarked, there was one conclusive reason for the change—because, after an expensive trial before a Master in Lunacy, and a decision establishing lunacy, the lunatic might the very next day traverse the finding; and then that traverse would have to be tried by a Judge of the Superior Courts. Therefore the proposition embodied in the present Bill was calculated to save time and expense. There were one or two points in respect to which he thought the Bill needed revision, and which he should mention in the hope that the Government would reconsider the propositions which they made. The Bill, for instance, provided that no evidence should be taken as to
 1980 1981 1982
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that as there was no opposition to the Motion, it was, perhaps, unnecessary for the hon. Gentleman to enter into all the details of the question. He did not complain, however, that he had felt it to be his duty to bring the matter under public notice. The hon. Gentleman said he did not desire to excite ill feeling in the country, but rather to allay it; but he (Sir Robert Peel) thought that as all the facts had already been placed before the public, this renewal of the discussion on the matter would rather tend to the perpetuation of bad feeling than promote any good end. The papers moved for had already appeared in the shape of a pamphlet, and had received sufficient publicity through the newspaper press; but as the hon. Gentleman desired to have them in an official form, the Government was prepared to accede to his request. The Lord Chancellor had authorized him to say that he would add to the documents the letter which he wrote on the subject; but he could not see how any public good could result from the continuance of the agitation on this question. The hon. Gentleman knew perfectly well that very great excitement had been created in the country by the conduct of Mr. Trench. The Lord Chancellor wrote to that gentleman asking an explanation, and on receiving it severely reprimanded him. He understood from the Lord Chancellor, however, that Mr. Trench erred rather from want of judgment than from a desire to use the old woman harshly or unjustly. Instead of entering into a discussion on this matter, which in the present excited state of certain parts of Ireland might be very injurious, he hoped the House would accept the statement he had made, and not pursue the subject further.
 MR. CAVE  seconded the Motion. He was glad his hon. Friend had brought the question forward, as it was one which had excited growing attention and increasing dissatisfaction on the English coast. He had on former occasions advocated the cause of the deep-sea oyster fishermen of the South Coast, and since this Motion had appeared upon the paper he had received a long list of vessels detained, and nets seized, for alleged infringement of the Fishery Convention. He had given his best attention to the Convention, and it was fair to state that he believed it was a good measure, and had, on the whole, worked well. But owing to change of circumstances, and contingencies over looked at the time, certain enactments seemed now arbitrary and oppressive; and the fishermen complained, as he thought with reason, that when we made so many concessions to France under the Commercial Treaty, we did not in return obtain an abrogation of these harsh and vexatious restrictions.
 MR. WHITBSIDE , in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, it would affect the real property law of the country. It was a Bill to amend the law relating to judgments in Ireland. A judgment was the decision of a competent Court that A should recover his debt from B. It gave a right to recover out of the profits of the land, but did not affect the land itself. Some years ago the writ of  elegit "I think that the law as it now stands in Ireland is mischievous to everybody, that it leads to the rapid accumulation of judgments, that it tends to create permanent debts, that it prevents the owner of land selling to advantage, and that it is the cause of great litigation and great costs." 2001 elegit 2002 lis pendens
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that the Lord Chancellor of Ireland and the Irish law officers had given an opinion against this Bill; and, for that reason, he would ask the House to agree to an Amendment which he meant to propose—namely, that the Bill be read a second time that day six months. For a long time judgments had been a common and favourite security in Ireland; but it appeared to him that this measure might have the effect of lessening the value of judgments by rendering them less secure. Pigott's Act put the law relating to Irish judgments on exactly the same footing with the law of judgments in England as it wag when that Act passed, with the
 2003 Vict elegit elegit
 MR. HENLEY  said, having had the honour to be a Member of the Committee that sat on this subject, he felt impressed with the opinion that the law of Ireland in regard to judgments was in a most unsatisfactory state, and required immediate amendment. He must, therefore, express his deep regret that the Government had thought fit to meet the second reading of this Bill with a direct negative, without giving any sound reasons against its principle, or holding out any hope that it was their intention to amend the law in Ireland in reference to this subject. Nobody could say that that law was satisfactory, and therefore it was the more to be regretted that the Government should seek to put a negative on the only effectual attempt that had been made to improve the law. All the objections urged by the hon. and learned Gentleman (the Solicitor General) against the measure could be easily amended in Committee. He looked upon the proceedings taken under the existing law in Ireland as an injury and a curse inflicted upon the unhappy owners of
 2006
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, his impression remained unshaken, notwithstanding till that had been said by hon. Members in favour of this Bill, and he could not entirely approve of its principle. At the outset, it seemed as though the principle of the measure was the assimilation of the law of Ireland to that of England; but, as far as he was able to investigate the provisions of the measure, he thought he was warranted in saying that it would not have the effect of assimilating the law of the two countries. The right of having a receiver and the writ of  elegit 2007
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he understood that there was no objection to refer the Bills both of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin and the hon. Gentleman the Member for the County of Cork to a Select Committee; and he took the liberty of suggesting, as the subjects had a natural connection with each other, that the other measure which had just been under the consideration of the House should be referred to the same tribunal. At first sight, it would appear as if his right hon. and learned Friend, having abolished, as far as in him lay, one species of security in Ireland, was endeavouring to create in its place another description of security. For some years Parliament had been doing its best to disencumber landed estates in Ireland; but now it seemed to be thought desirable that Parliament should create a new machinery for re-encumbering them. Whether the framers of these two Bills had or had not succeeded in guarding against the evils which were felt when judgments were transferable, nobody could read them without being sensible of the extreme importance, as well as the extreme novelty of these plans, for their applicability was not confined to Ireland. His hon. Friend the Member for Cork County was certainly entitled to the credit of priority of invention in this case, whether it was a good invention or a bad one. He did not undertake to pronounce positively, at present, whether it was good or bad: he was aware that the hon. Member had paid great attention to the subject; and upon the kindred question of the registration of title to land the country was,
 2010 2011
 LORD NAAS  said, he could not agree with the observations of the Solicitor General, that by sending the Bill to a Select Committee the House would not pledge itself in favour of the principle of the Bill. He should prefer to see it rejected at once. He objected altogether to the principle of the measure. There was really no necessity for it, and no specific evils had been pointed out which would be cured by it, The Landed Estates Court disposed of property to the amount of a million a year, and there was never any lack of purchasers. In that respect, therefore, the Bill would answer no useful object. Some years ago the present Master of the Rolls introduced a Bill to empower the Landed Estates Court to endorse borrowing powers on the conveyances which they granted, that every purchaser of an estate could borrow half the purchase-money immediately after he got the conveyance. He and others opposed that Bill, and it was withdrawn. He was equally hostile to the present Bill. He questioned the propriety of affording great facilities for embarrassing landed property. He could not see the difference between the debentures which would be created by the Bill and the judgments which had been denounced so loudly. He was afraid that the proposed scheme would
 2012
 MR. AYRTON  said, he rose according to notice to move that the Bill be read a second time that day three months. He thought that when the reasons for the original law were balanced with those urged in favour of its amendment, it would be found that no real necessity existed for this Bill. In the first place, the Bill was confined entirely to spirits. He admitted that there was a distinction to be drawn between beer and spirits. Beer was an article of belief with Englishmen, but to this no reference was made. Now, gin was an innovation. It came over from Holland with the Revolution, and was, perhaps, the only misfortune attendant on; that great event. The people of this country had before that time got on very well without it; they effected the Revolution without it; and he was not at all aware that gin was necessary for the preservation of the national liberties. At first it was made and sold without restriction; but, in 1729, free trade in gin had produced such a demoralizing effect that repeated com plaints were made upon the subject. The drinking of spirits and strong water, it was declared, "had become very common, especially among people of lower and inferior rank; and the constant and excessive use of spirits tended greatly to destroy their health, to render them unfit for useful labour and business, to debauch their morals, and inciting them to perpetrate all vices." Legislative measures were accordingly taken to restrict the sale of spirits; but these measures were, perhaps, so se-
 1991 1992 1993
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, the Bill was a very important one, affecting as it did the rights of all the proprietors of land in Ireland; and as it would enable any judgment creditor for the sum of £50 to bring the estate of his debtor into the Landed Estates Court and have it sold, it required the greatest consideration. He should like to hear the opinion of the law officers of the Crown as to the working of this Bill.
 MR. MACDONOGH  said, that the letter of the Lord Chancellor of Ireland had shown no reason why this Bill should not be read a second time, but had merely raised objections to details which might be met in Committee. He had himself been in communication with bankers of eminence in Ireland, and his right hon. Friend had agreed to modify the provisions of the Bill so as to meet the wishes of that important body of persons. If the Bill was read a second time, he had no doubt that his right hon. Friend would not object to refer it to a Select Committee, on which the landed gentry of Ireland might be thoroughly represented.
 MR. HADFIELD  regretted that the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Whiteside) had not brought in a Bill to abolish the existing law of judgment al together. He did not see why judgments affecting real estate should not be put on the same footing as judgments on personalty.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  said, that as a lauded proprietor in Ireland he viewed the proposal with the greatest possible alarm. The establishment of the Encumbered Estates Court had been, on the whole, a most successful and beneficial measure; but the scheme before them was of a retrograde character.
 MR. WHITESIDE  was glad that the hon. and learned Gentleman had put the Government right with regard to this Bill. He had never heard feebler arguments than those by which it had been met. He had been asked why he did not maintain the law of receivers. His answer was, that it had been condemned by two Committees, of which the late Sir James Graham, the hon. Member for Coventry (Mr. E. Ellice), and the hon. and learned Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Walpole) were members. The objections to the Bill had been founded upon the opinions expressed by Gentlemen who were absent from that House, and who, he was sorry to say, were never likely to be present.
 MR. WHITESIDE , in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, its object was to afford facilities in raising money by the owners of land in fee simple in Ireland, who were a very numerous class, without rendering a judgment necessary or the more expensive auxiliary of a mortgage. The proposition was, after the Landed Estates Court had granted a perfectly clear title to an estate, to allow the Court to give to the purchaser, if he asked for it, a right to possess, use, or disuse debentures charged on that estate, and included in the conveyance in the way pointed out in the Bill; so that if in after life he should require to raise money to meet any exigency, it should not be necessary for him to have recourse to a mort gage or judgment, but should have the means of helping himself from his own re sources. The Bill had been draughted by one of the Judges of the Landed Estates Court, and had received the unanimous approval of all the other members of that
 2008 bonus 2009
 MR. DODSON  said, that the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets seemed to be one of those who thought it possible to make people sober by Act of Parliament, and had quoted the Tippling Act as having effected the object. But he had made no allowance for changes in the feelings and habits of the people. It was true that in the latter part of the reign of George I., and in the beginning of the reign of George II., most restrictive laws were passed to suppress drunkenness among the people; but these laws were so excessively stringent that they defeated their own object, and the only result was that smuggling and illicit distillation, and every direct and indirect violation of the law, were superadded to intemperance. The hon. Gentleman said, that the Act of 1751, which contained this restriction, had operated in favour of temperance. But the Act mitigated the absurd stringency of the law previously existing, and the results to which the hon. Gentleman pointed only showed that temperance depended not so
 1994
 MR. GEORGE  said, he should vote for the second reading. He thought that the Solicitor General had misconceived the scope and object of his right hon. Friend's Bill. So far from the object of the measure being to either invalidate or render less secure judgments upon land, he (Mr. George) considered that the very principle of the Bill was to render those judgments more secure, in giving power to judgment creditors to render them at once effective by a sale of the land in question. The remedy, which had almost become obsolete, of appointing a receiver on the foot of a judgment over the land, in the opinion of the best legal authorities in Ireland, ought to be done away with. The remedy by  elegit 2005
 MR. ROEBUCK  hoped the hon. Member would not withdraw his Bill. The clause of the Tippling Act was a mere police regulation, and it had been turned to dishonest practices. Persons calling themselves gentlemen had sent for small quantities of liquor—a bottle of spirits or of wine; when the bill was sent in, if the items were kept under a certain sum the parties refused to pay, on the plea that the publican had broken the law. They drank the liquor, but were not will-
 1997
 MR. P. A. TAYLOR  agreed with the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck) that the man who sent for liquors from a publican to be consumed in his own house ought not to be enabled to evade payment. It appeared to him that the hon. Member who had brought forward this measure had precisely hit the line that was required to be drawn.
 MR. P. W. MARTIN  in reply said, he never thought the Bill would apply except to the rich, believing, of course, that the poor would not be trusted; but, if it was thought necessary, he had no objection to provide for its special application to the rich, by fixing the quantity of spirits the value of which could be recovered at, say, a reputed quart.
 MR. P. W. MARTIN , in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, it was not intended to interfere with the object, but to improve the action, of a particular section of the 24  Geo s 1989 s s d 1990
 MR. MALINS  confessed he was at it loss to collect from the speech of the hon. and learned Solicitor General any reasons why this Bill should not be read a second time. He (Mr. Malins) thought it was most desirable that the law of England and Ire land upon this subject should be assimilated. He thought no hon. Member would venture to deny that proposition. If the practice in England were not to apply for the appointment of a receiver over the property in question, what objection, be asked, was there to establish a similar practice in Ireland? Again, in regard to proceeding by  elegit
 MR. SPOONER  said, that before the division took place, he wished to address an appeal to the hon. Member for Rochester to withdraw the Bill, and let it be introduced in another Session.
 MR. LONGFIELD  would be inclined to agree with the Solicitor General if the question to be decided were that of either
 2004
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, the Bill involved two considerations—a matter of police, and protection against fraud—which could not well be separated. If the hon. Gentleman so altered the Bill as to apply it solely to persons in a superior condition of life, he did not suppose there would be any particular objection to it; but in order to afford a remedy for frauds by such persons, he proposed to repeal an Act which had been in operation for a hundred years, and was admitted to have worked well. In seeking to get rid of the means of fraud, the hon. Member was getting rid of that which had been found to be useful in other respects. He was therefore sorry that the Government had consented to the second reading of this Bill. He was perfectly persuaded that the country was against the principle of the Bill, though he believed they would be ready to agree to any measure to prevent fraud; and if some measure could be framed which should have that effect only, he should have no objection to support it He thought the Bill was too wide, and that the hon. Member had better with draw it and introduce another to remedy the specific evil of which he complained.
 MR. HALIBURTON  said, the question was one very difficult to deal with. Laws that attempted to abolish the use of liquor altogether defeated themselves. It was impossible to carry them into operation. The Maine Liquor Law was practically inoperative. Liquor was sold all over the State of Maine, and all over the other States, and it was said to find its way into very high quarters. In his opinion, the consumption of liquors was rather increased than diminished in those States where the law was prohibitory. Still, the sale of liquor was a subject which required legislative direction. It ought not to be sold except by licence granted by magistrates to a proper number of fit persons carrying on the trade in suitable places, as they could then apply police regulations in the use of that which had a tendency to all evil. After a very long experience in the administration of criminal matters, he did not make too large an estimate when he asserted that two-thirds of all the offences
 1999
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  concurred in the opinion of the hon. and learned Member for Mallow (Mr. Longfield), that it was most desirable to amend the law in Ireland in regard to judgments. He would vote for the second reading with a view to their moving that the Bill be then referred to a Select Committee, and there entirely remodelled. In taking that course he only intended to bind himself to the declaration that the law in its present state was objectionable.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, the subject was not wholly a novelty, as in 1853 he brought in a Bill which was read a second time, and which embodied the whole of the scheme now laid before Parliament. He gave every support to the proposal of his right hon. Friend; for though it differed in details, the principle was identical, having been borrowed from his own original measure. The difference between the "Debentures on Land" Bill and the "Land Debentures." Bill reminded him of King James the First's famous conundrum "What is the difference between live fish and fish alive?" The letter "a," and no more. He had no objection to the Bills being referred to a Select Committee, for he believed the more the subject was investigated the more surely would the principle of land debentures be approved.
 MR. DEEDES  said, he had come down to the House with a doubt on his mind as to the course he would take upon the Bill, and having listened attentively to all the speeches, he thought the case was one in which plausible arguments might be introduced on both sides. He could not agree that this was not a question of fraud. He held it to be a deliberate fraud for a man to purchase an article from another with out any intention of paying for it, and when called upon to pay for it to deliberately refuse to do so. The Bill was limited to altering the law with respect to small portions of liquor consumed off the premises; but had the innkeeper no remedy at present? He thought he had. He was not compelled to deliver his goods. He enjoyed a monopoly in his trade, subject to certain police and other regulations, and he ought to know that one of the provisions of the law was, that if he trusted people for small quantities of liquor to be consumed off the premises, he could not recover the money. He might say to his
 1995
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  hoped the hon. Member for Rochester would not press the second reading, not on the ground of any theory, but because of what he believed would be the practical effect of the Bill. Almost all who had any experience of the working of the Tippling Act among the population generally, knew that it had been of considerable advantage. It had been so, certainly, in the district he re presented, where there was an anxiety, not confined to the rich or any other class, but shared in by the poorer classes, that it should be applied to beer as well as to spirits. Even under his own Bill the hon. Member proposed to retain some of the advantages of the Act, for he did not enable a publican to recover for spirits drunk on the premises. But that restriction might, he thought, by the Bill as proposed, be easily evaded. The arguments by which the hon. Member for Sussex (Mr. Dodson) supported the Bill would go much further than the measure itself; they would apply to leaving the whole trade in liquor free. The hon. Member said, they could not make men sober by law. Certainly not; nor could they make men honest by law. Nobody expected to make men sober or honest by Act of Parliament, but they did hope to prevent the seller of intoxicating liquors inciting and alluring the humble classes to drink and crime. That was the real meaning of all the efforts of Parliament upon this subject. Why, otherwise, would they have had the licensing system, or interfered with the sale of this commodity at all? It was hardly fair to tax the opponents of the Bill with being advocates of the Maine Liquor Law. That law entirely prevented the use of the commodity; but they only tried to prevent its abuse. That was the object of the Tippling Act. He had another reason for opposing the Bill. The more they looked at any question relating to the sale of intoxicating liquors the
 1996
 MR. MONSELL  said, that it had been shown by one Gentleman after another that the existing law upon the subject was unsatisfactory, and therefore it ought to be altered. Upon the understanding that the Bill was to go to a Select Committee he should support the second reading.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  supported the Bill, and suggested that the extent to which debentures should be is sued might be limited to a third of the value of the property.
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  opposed the Bill. The debentures would be likely to get into the hands of low attorneys, who were already great money-lenders to tenants; and it would affect existing mort gages unfairly.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  was bound to say that the hon. Member for Rochester had established a grievance which called for some remedy. The clause in the Tippling Act (Clause 12) was a valuable one as it affected liquors consumed on the premises. Nothing could be more injurious than to repeal that clause, and enable a licensed victualler to encourage persons of the lower class of life to assemble in his house and run up great scores for spirits of different kinds, consumed in small quantities. That would lead to great intemperance. But the hon. Member did not alter the law in that respect. He said that there was the case of persons in a higher rank in life who were supplied with small quantities of spirits upon credit. Those spirits were sent out quite legitimately by the licensed victualler or wine merchant—for both were equally affected by the law—in the full confidence that he would be paid; but when the Bill was presented, the parties refused to pay, and under the Tippling Act the amount could not be recovered. He admitted that was a discreditable state of things, and for that reason he was disposed to agree to the second reading of the Bill; but he thought the clauses would require some modification in Committee, so as to avoid those evils against which the Tippling Act was directed.
 MR. LAWSON  said, that the question ought to be considered, not in the interest of the publicans, but in the interest of the people. The publicans forgot that theirs was an exceptional trade. That it was regarded as a dangerous one was proved by the restrictions with which it was fenced. By numerous petitions the attention of the House had been directed to a subject of daily increasing importance—the Permissive Bill of the United Kingdom Alliance. He knew that some hon. Members looked upon it as a most absurd
 1998
 MR. HENLEY  seconded the Amendment. The company took power to erect these wires and posts over every highway in the kingdom, and a Bill which contained such a provision ought to be a public one, and not be brought before the House as a Private Bill. Nobody had notice that it was coming on. Great bodies had looked out for themselves, and had taken care to protect themselves, but what protection was afforded to the public? These undertakings had already been declared by the law courts to be a public nuisance, and they now asked Parliament to allow them to do that which the law forbade. The fact that other companies had obtained analogous powers was no reason why they should take another step in a wrong direction. This should be a public Bill; and as a week's delay would enable the Government to consider the whole question, he should support the Amendment.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  thought the proposal to postpone the second reading unreasonable. He was astonished the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) should support the Amendment. He was defending the monopoly obtained by the existing Company, who charged for messages on a scale double that which was proposed to be charged by the new Company. The Bill had gone through a Committee of the House of Lords, and been fully discussed there. He hoped his hon. Friend would not press the Amendment against a good measure. The proper tribunal for deciding the question was the Select Committee, who would hear all parties.
 MR. HODGSON  said, he had a strong opinion that competition between Electric Telegraph Companies was a very good thing. He sent a message of twenty words the other day to Manchester, and he paid 1 s s
 MR. ELLICE (Coventry)  said, he wished to know whether the Colonial Office have ascertained whether it is possible for these men to reach their destination.
 MR. ELLICE (Coventry)  said, he also wished to ask whether the Under Secretary knew that Dr. Rae, with an armed party, who had last year gone on a hunting expedition to the country in question, had been compelled to return on account of a war having broken out among the Indian tribes.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the Report of the Commission had not yet been formally presented to the Government. It would, however, he believed, be presented to-morrow, and he hoped to be able to communicate it to the House next week. He would answer the other question of the hon. Gentleman to-morrow.
 MR. COWPER  said, he had inquired of the Commission, and he believed there was no doubt that they would be prepared to make a Report before the conclusion of the Session.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, it was his intention to proceed with the Bill on Monday, and he believed it would stand first on the Orders for that Day.
 THE O'CONOR DON : Sir in rising to
 2032 2033 2034 2035 2036 2037 2038 2039
 THE O'CONOR DON : I did not say they were unnecessary, but that as at present constituted they do not effect the object for which they were intended.
 VISCOUNT PALMBRSTON : I should hope that the hon. Gentlemen who take an interest in the Queen's Colleges, and in the education question generally, are satisfied with the discussion which has taken place, and which has now lasted more than six hours. There is other business before the House, and I trust that those hon. Members who may still wish to express their opinions upon the subject will have the kindness to defer their speeches until some other opportunity for delivering them occurs, so that we may be allowed to go into the Orders of the Day, which are of a little more practical and pressing importance.
 MR. PEEL  could only repeat what he said the other evening, when the question
 2085
 COLONEL KNOX  said, that the House was not dealing fairly with the Government in this matter, inasmuch as they were all parties to the original arrangement. Although the House might blink the question as to the original design in fortifying Alderney, he would not blink it. If a war broke out between this country and France, Alderney was of the utmost importance for the command of the Channel. The change of armaments, and the invulnerability of iron ships, made it still more necessary in a naval point of view that these fortifications should be completed, and that we should have this as an advanced point of observation and defence in the Channel; for depend upon it. if ever an attack was made upon us by France, it would be from that direction. Alderney was most important as an advanced post for the Channel cruisers to run to, and he thought it would be perfectly suicidal if we stopped short in making this point as defensible as possible.
 MR. LIDDELL  inquired why no specific plan of the works was shown in the engineer's report as in other cases? Was it because the Government had none for the completion of the fortifications? This was no new matter, but had been brought before the House year after year, and the Government had always assured the House that the work was in process of completion. Though there were constitutional objections to relieving Ministers of responsibility by handing matters over to a Committee, yet, on the whole, he thought this ought to be an exception, and that the Committee should be granted.
 LORD ALFRED CHURCHILL  said, it was very unusual to oppose the second reading of a Bill that had gone through a minute investigation in the House of Lords. The provisions introduced by the other House were amply sufficient to protect the owners so property. If they wished to benefit the commercial interests, by securing cheap telegraphic communication, they should support the Bill, to which there was a tremendous opposition by the other Company, that had its agents at work all over the country.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that owing to the exposed position of Alderney,
 2086
 LORD HOTHAM  said, the object of the postponement was to enable the Government to determine whether this should be treated as a Public Bill, but the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade had not said a word upon that point.
 MAJOR O'REILLY  said, he was aware of that, because the letter was a protest against the evil being met by the sharper remedies, and suggested it should be met  lenioribus remediis 2067 2068
 MAJOR O'REILLY  said, he would endeavour to bring back the attention of the House to the original subject of discussion—the present system of education in Ireland. He thought that the subject might be divided into three parts —the education of the poorer classes in the ordinary National schools; the teaching and training of teachers in what were called the Model schools, as well as the education of the middle and better classes in those schools; and the instruction given in the Queen's Colleges, which might be said to crown the system. By means of that system complete Government control was introduced into every branch of education in Ireland. The first part of this system, and the least objectionable, consisted of the ordinary National schools, or the poor schools of the country. For many a long year the Roman Catholics had been deprived of all
 2064 2065 2066 lenioribus remediis
 MR. AYRTON  rose to move an Amendment which he thought had been rendered necessary by what had occurred on Friday night. In moving the reduction of the Vote for Alderney Harbour, the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter) asserted that the works could not be completed for less than £1,850,000, and the lion. Baronet the Member for Finsbury (Sir Morton Peto), who spoke with great practical knowledge of such matters, estimated the cost at £2,000,000; while three Members of the Government in succession stated that, in addition to the sum expended and to be voted this year, only £230,000 would be required to complete the harbour. There was a great discrepancy between these estimates, and he had searched through all the papers on the subject to see which of them was likely to be correct. The result of his investigation had been to satisfy him that there was no Paper on the table of the House that could satisfy any Member that this great work could be completed at the estimate named by the Government; but, on the contrary, the only conclusion that any reasonable man could draw was, that a sum like that stated by his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose must be expended before the harbour was completed. If that were so, he appealed to the Government to give the House some distinct information which might be placed upon record what this work at Alderney really was, and what sum
 2083 termini 2084
 MR. LEFROY  said, before proceeding with his observations on the question be fore the House, he must say he had heard with great pain the concluding observations of the speech of the hon. Member who had just sat down. His reference to the Established Church, he thought, was altogether gratuitous, and he was not aware that there was any such feeling in the north of Ireland as that to which the hon. Member had alluded. He had never heard a Roman Catholic Member of that House make such a gross and un-called-for attack on the Established Church. The hon. Gentleman had also spoken of the right hon. Secretary for Ireland in a manner totally uncalled for. He thought
 2059 "If the precepts of morality, the rules for the guidance of conduct, had a divine sanction, it ought to be disclosed to the children, and the counsel of God ought not to be withheld." 2060 "That the rule of the Board in regard to the reading of the Holy Scriptures should not be en forced to prevent the manager or teacher of a school from making such reference to the Word of God as the occasion might demand during the hours of general instruction; provided that in so doing no religious teaching of a denominational character should be introduced." 2061
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, When he proposes to make his Financial Statement?
 MR. LAYARD  was understood to reply that the only answer he could give was, that this was a matter to be discussed and settled between the Turkish Government and the Pacha of Egypt.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, the accounts were not yet completely furnished, and he was unable at present to name a day for making the Statement.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, the rules of the House prevented him from rising a second time, and notice had been given of another Question relating to the Department over which he had the honour to preside, and he would therefore answer this Question later in the evening.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he did not think that an ordinary party of emigrants, consisting of persons of different age and sex, could be expected to reach their destination in safety by this route; but the men who were to start might accomplish the journey with no greater risks or hardships than those to which any exploring party of adventurers in the prime of life would be exposed.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, in reply, that the Colonial Office had received a report from the Emigration Commissioners, who had thought it their duty to inquire into the facts of the case. They had invited some one representing this Transit Company to an interview; and a gentleman, a Colonel Sleigh, representing the Company, attended at the Emigration Office. The result was, that this Gentleman assured the Commissioners that all the preparations specified in their advertisement had been made, and, what was much more important, that the number of persons to be sent out, instead of being 500, would not reach 100, constituted entirely of able-bodied young men, accustomed to an active life and the use of horses and firearms. There would be neither women, children, nor old men. The Commissioners therefore reported to the Colonial Office that there was not sufficient cause to interfere. But he was very far from saying that he expected the Company would be able to carry out all the promises made in their prospectus, particularly as to time. He believed it would take a very much longer time to reach British Columbia than the advertisement led people to suppose; but the Government did not anticipate the emigrants would starve. Although they believed great hardships would have to be
 2024
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he believed the through route had never been used by a stream of emigrants, although travellers had used that portion of it between St. Paul's and Red River. He was quite aware of the hardships and dangers of the passage across the Rocky Mountains, a geographical feature of which, oddly enough, the Company had taken no notice in their prospectus; but he had not heard of the circumstance to which his hon. Friend (Mr. Ellice) had referred.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, the Government had nothing whatever to do with the matter. His noble Friend at the head of the Colonial Department had, however, written to the Governor of British Columbia to take care that the conditions of the Company were fulfilled.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether Her Majesty's Government will make serious efforts to prevent the continuance on the part of the Pacha of Egypt, of the employment of forced labour on the Suez Canal?
 MR. FELLOWES  said, he was glad of the opportunity of making an explanation in regard to this disaster, the melancholy consequences of which they must all deplore. Previous to the accident on Sunday the 4th May, the Commissioners had received no intimation whatever of there being the slightest danger likely to arise to the great sea sluice; but on the following morning he, as Chairman of the Commission, received from their clerk, who was then in London, a communication that on the previous night the sluice had been destroyed by the tides. Immediately on learning what had happened, he went to Mr. Walker, the engineer who constructed the works fifteen years ago; and after consulting with him and Mr. Burgess, his partner, they called in Mr. Hawkshaw to give advice on the subject. That gentleman recommended the construction of an earth dam, and the resident engineer was directed to carry out the work with all
 2028
 MR. FELLOWES  said, he was in the hands of the House. This was a matter of public importance; and if the House had no objection, he would proceed with the reading of Mr. Hawkshaw's report. ["Read ! read !"]
 "33, Great George Street, Westminster, "May 20. "Gentlemen,—I have read Mr. Waddington's letter of the 19th inst., and also the two letters accompanying it —one from the Mayor of Lynn and the other from the Vicar of Enneth. In reply I beg to report that no effort has been spared since the failure of the sluice to construct sufficient barriers against the sea to prevent it flowing up the new cut into the interior of the country. Between the 4th inst., when the sluice gave way, and the next high tides, there was an interval of only seven days, much too short a space of time to permit of any effectual stoppage of the tidal waters. The construction of an earthwork dam was commenced immediately, and continued incessantly, for the purpose of shutting out as much as possible of the tidal waters, and the dam was raised in that time about ten feet high. It was wholly impossible in those few days, a portion of which had to be devoted to collecting a proper staff and suitable materials, to do more than this. The earth dam is not abandoned, as one of the writers seems to imagine, but is now being pushed forward as fast as possible, having regard to its security. Fearing to depend on this alone, I am also constructing a coffer dam above the earth dam, so as to afford additional safety. I can only add that everything that human agency can do in the matter is being done. It is difficult to explain to gentlemen unacquainted with such subjects the steps and stages necessary to bring a work presenting unusual difficulties to a successful conclusion. The suggestions made by all sorts of people from day to day how instantly to stop a tidal river of great magnitude, while they show a laudable anxiety to avert further mischief, display how little such persons understand the difficulties of the task they would undertake. I have, however, every reason to hope that the measures I am now taking will be successful. It is true, as mentioned by the Mayor of Lynn, that on Sunday last, the 18th inst., the men were not at work. The payment of their wages was not concluded until near midnight on Saturday, and men and superintendents were all so worn out that it was thought desirable by the agents of Mr. Leather, the contractor, to allow them to rest on the Sunday. "I am, Gentlemen, "Your obedient servant, "JOHN HAWKSHAW. "The Commissioners of the Middle Level Drainage." 2030
 MR. MACDONOGH  said, he rose to vindicate the Church of Ireland from the most uncalled-for attack which had been made upon it by the hon. and learned Member for Wexford. The hon. and learned Member had called it a curse upon Ireland. He (Mr. Macdonogh), a member of that Church, would call it one of the blessings of that country. That Church had succeeded in planting, not only the religion of England in Ireland, but the civilization of England also. ["Oh, oh !"] Exclamations of "Oh !" were no answer to a fact. The attack which had been made on the Established Church in Ireland that night was  apropos 2063 Esto perpetua
 MR. DOULTON  said, he would also beg-to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether there is any probability of the Commission on the Embankment of the South side of the Thames making then Report before the prorogation of Parliament?
 MR. DOULTON  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to take any action, during the present Session, upon the Report of the Committee on Fires in the Metropolis?
 MR. BENTINCK  said, that a great deal of anxiety having been felt with respect to the inundations that had recently occurred in Cambridgeshire and Norfolk, and many misapprehensions having arisen from erroneous statements, he wished to ask the hon. Member for Huntingdonshire (Mr. Fellowes), as Chairman of the Middle Level Commission. If he had any objection to state what was the present extent of the inundation of the Fen country, and what hope he entertained of putting a stop to it?
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he would second the Motion. The hon. Gentleman had said a great deal about the ultimate cost of these works, but he did not touch upon what he (Mr. Bentinck) considered the most important part of the question—namely, what would be the utility of these works to the country when completed? It was impossible to separate the two questions of the harbour and the fortifications; but assuming they were both completed, and that this country should find itself unfortunately engaged in a war with France, the smallest number of men required to garrison Alderney was stated at 2,000 and the largest 8,000. Taking it at 5,000, he would ask the House whether the incarceration of such a force on a barren rock at a distance from our own coast would ever be tolerated? The question whether this port was of any utility as a port of refuge or observation was unimportant; for him self, he believed it would be neither the one nor the other. So long as we had command of the Channel, these fortifications were useless; and he did not believe we could retain them a day if we lost that command. The result would be that these strong works would fall into the hands of the enemy. On the other hand, supposing our troops occupied them, could we afford the necessary number to maintain an effective garrison?
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he had never heard a speech more refreshing to his feelings than that to which he had just listened. He agreed with every sentence that had fallen from the hon. and learned Member, He believed the Established Church to be the great incubus and curse which weighed down the peace and welfare of Ireland, and in connection with Ireland the peace and prosperity of the United Kingdom; and he assured the hon. Member that there were millions of people in this country who would be ready to support his views. He was delighted to learn that the Roman Catholics of Ireland were willing to relinquish all grants they now enjoyed, provided only they were put on a footing of equality with all other sections of the community. He deplored the discussions which took place annually in that House, and which were decided either by the casting vote of the Speaker, or a majority of one—the contest being for the supremacy of one denomination of Christians over all other—a contest of which Christianity was ashamed. He was gratified with what he had heard as to the feeling in Ireland, and was quite sure that whenever these political attempts at supremacy on behalf of a minority of the people of the United Kingdom—for the members of the Church of England did not number more than one-third of the whole population—could be put down, and the contest should be, as it ought to be, which denomination showed the excellence of its faith and principles by the morality of its conduct, and which could best maintain the character of Christianity, then the glory and happiness of this country would be secured. He thought "there was a good time coming" in reference to these questions.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he wished to ask the hon. Member for Belfast
 2026
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Why the Return of Ecclesiastical Registries, moved for on the 1st of August last year, has not yet been laid upon the table of the House?
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he would beg to ask whether this route was not used by a stream of emigrants from the United States to British Columbia.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he wished to know whether the Government have taken any steps in the matter.
 MR. WHITESIDE : Sir, I have to congratulate the hon. Member on having recalled the attention of the House to the true question before it. Sometimes hon. Members endeavour to atone for the scantiness of their matter by the intemperance of their language, and, not having bestowed pains and time on a subject, seize upon some topic that is irrelevant, and vent their spleen in a futile malignity which does not affect the question under discussion. I should say that the hon. and learned Member for Wexford (Mr. M'Mahon) is on the high road to promotion, and that he has established a claim on the favourable notice of the noble Viscount. As for the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Hadfield), he declared he was quite refreshed by the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Wexford. I am sure I do not grudge him the refreshment he says he enjoyed. I have before remarked that there are intolerant advocates of toleration. Lord Macaulay, in his  History 2069 2070 2071 2072
 MR. WHITESIDE : I took down the right hon. Baronet's words. He said the University had £90,000 a year. He is only wrong by £60,000—it has about £30,000 a year. It is true that the munificent monarchs of England and many wise patrons of learning have given large estates to the University; but many per sons have considerable properties out of the estates of the University—Mr. O'Connell has a large property out of its estates; and it is a remarkable thing that the tenants on the Church lands and on the University lands are generally rich, and they are never shot down by the population. The right hon. Baronet is therefore entirely wrong about the income of the University. Now, with regard to the Fellows, the right hon. Baronet said that the income of the Senior Fellows is as large as that of the Prime Minister. The right hon. Gentle man was drawing on his imagination for his facts. Their income is£1,250.
 MR. WHITESIDE : First the right hon. Gentleman selected the Prime Minister, who, I admit, is underpaid for his great labours; but my respectable constituents, the Senior Fellows, who after thirty or forty years' devotion to literature, have obtained incomes of £1,250, were endowed by the fancy of the right hon. Gentleman with salaries of £5,000. Now, he says their incomes are equal to the salaries of some of the Cabinet Ministers. I know not who are the unfortunate gentlemen in the
 2073 2074 2075
 MR. SPEAKER : I do not know what may be the wish of the House as to the extent to which this conversation should proceed; but it is my duty to inform the hon. Member and the House that questions are confined by the directions of the House to Ministers of the Crown relating to public affairs, and to other Members relating to any Bill, Motion, or any public matter connected with the business of the House in which such Members may be concerned. This may be a matter of public importance, but it does not fall within the limits laid down by the Order.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that the right hon. Baronet had gone over to Ireland, knowing nothing of the country, and bad commenced an extraordinary crusade, not against the Roman Catholic religion, but against all its religious educational establishments, beginning with Trinity College, Dublin. He announced to the people that it was desirable to establish new scholar ships in the Queen's Colleges; and he announced, in a letter dated from the Castle, and addressed to the registrars of the various colleges, that a scholarship, founded by him, would be placed at the disposal of the students of the second year's course in the Faculty of Arts and Laws in the Queen's College, Galway. Now, he (Mr. Hennessy) had called for a Return of the
 2078 2079 "Have you any class this year?—No. "How long have you been Professor?—Since 1856. "Have you had any pupils since?—No, but two or three intend, I think, to give in their names. "Do you see any prospect of being able to form a class?—Indeed I think there will be great difficulty." 2080
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, the right hon. Gentleman had distinctly stated, that while fourteen of the Prelates assembled at the Synod of Thurles condemned the system of education in the colleges, a large minority of them were in favour of it, and therefore the condemnation of the system was not so strong as it was generally supposed to be; and that, practically, the alleged condemnation was a fraud upon public credulity. In proof of that statement the right hon. Gentleman read a letter, of which he gave a free translation. He wished the right hon. Gentleman had given a free translation of the entire document, the entire prayer, and the whole of the answer. He would tell the right hon. Gentleman that the real fact was this—all the Roman Catholic Bishops then assembled condemned the colleges; but thirteen of them disagreed with the majority as to the expediency or wisdom of passing a censure upon those clergymen who had given their countenance or support to the system.
 MR. MAGUIRE : Was that an ingenuous answer? The right hon. Gentleman held a high position, and anything that came from him must have great weight, both with the House and the country. But he would tell him, on what he considered ten times higher authority, that his statement was, unconsciously no doubt, a misrepresentation of the facts of the case. He was not there to express an opinion as to whether those Prelates were right or wrong. But as to the facts, he could pledge the highest ecclesiastical authority in Ireland that they were as he (Mr. Maguire) had described. The right hon. Gentleman had taken great credit for the success of the National system of education. But, he would ask, had what was called the National system of education—the mixed system—succeeded in Ireland? He asserted that it had not. In three pro-
 2051 tabula rasa 2052 2053 2054 2055 afflatus 2056 alumni
 MR. MALCOLM  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether the attention of her Majesty's Government has been directed to an advertisement in  The Times
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he also would ask whether the Government had anything to do with the Company?
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he wished to know whether the Under Secretary was also aware how much the Hudson's Bay Company was interested in the matter.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he should not have taken any part in this debate had it not been for an observation of the hon. Member who had just sat down, who said that the introduction of the question of the Irish Church in this discussion was altogether uncalled for. Now he (Mr. M'Mahon), on the contrary, contended that it was impossible the question of the Established Church could be omitted from a discussion of this kind. That Church was the main source of all the differences about religion and education in Ireland, and it was desirable for the peace of the country that it should be abolished, for ever since its establishment it had been made the engine of disunion and degradation. In the sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth centuries Ireland did more for the propagation of Christianity throughout the world than all the rest of Europe put together. During those centuries, when there was no Established Church, no church rates, no tithes, no punishment for religious opinions, but a perfectly voluntary system, Ireland got and deserved the name of the "Isle of Saints." Since the introduction of the Established Church, Ireland had ceased to be a missionary nation, and her people had been perpetually fighting upon religious topics, always quarrelling with one another and with England. In the Council of Kilkenny the Prelates of the Established Church denounced everything Irish as abominable to God and man, and laws were passed making it lawful to kill any Irishman or to dishonour any Irishwoman.
 MR. M'MAHON  proceeded to state that until the Established Church in Ireland was abolished there would be endless complaints, in the discussion of which the time of that House would be engaged. The people of Ireland would be quite willing to abandon all grants which they now enjoyed for purposes of education it the Established Church were only abolished and cleared off the face of the country. So that the interests of the present occupants were preserved, he would be for sinking all tithes and selling all church lands, in order that the degradation and disunion which had lasted for seven centuries might be finally and for ever removed.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he had not at tacked the clergy of the Established Church. He had spoken of the Church as an institution, and not of the clergy individually.
 MR. HUMBERSTON  said, that though this was a private measure, it involved considerations of public importance. It empowered the Company to lay down their poles and wires along the turnpike road, and thus to curtail its width, by merely giving fifteen days' notice. This might occasion very considerable inconvenience. There were other clauses which required consideration. He thought that further notice should be given to hon. Members, that they might become acquainted with the provisions of the measure to which they were asked to assent, and he therefore moved that the second reading be deferred for a week, in order that the public might know that it was before the House, and should be referred to a Committee, before whom they could be heard.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether the Report of the Commission on National Defences has been presented to the Government; and, if so, when they will be prepared to communicate it to Parliament? He also desired to know what has delayed the Returns moved for by his right hon. Friend the Member for Limerick (Mr. Monsell) respecting the details of the expenditure of £2,000,000 for the Spithead Forts?
 MR. MORE O'FERRALL  said, he had really hoped that a question so interesting to the people would not have been treated with utter contempt by the noble Lord. A question which had occupied six hours in discussion was entitled to the expression of some opinion from Her Majesty's Government. About thirty years ago, when this question was first mooted, the Catholics of Ireland placed such implicit confidence in a Protestant Government as to believe that that Government would lay down a system of education which they might accept. The Catholics of Ireland received from the Government of that day a most solemn pledge that the system would be free from all suspicion of proselytism; and, relying on that assurance, the great body of the Roman Catholic clergy and laity intrusted them with the education of their poor. Things went on smoothly for about nine years; when, unhappily, a positive breach of faith took place on the part of Ministers who were Members of Lord Grey's Government, which gave the pledge to which he had referred, because they sanctioned a change
 2081 2082
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, as the Bill had passed through a Committee of the House of Lords, it came to them recommended rather more strongly than a Bill introduced in the ordinary way. He thought the Bill should be read a second time. All the promoters asked was, to have their case investigated in Commit-
 2022
 MR. BAXTER  admired the caution which the noble Lord (Lord C. Paget) had displayed in refusing to pledge himself to the time at which these works would be completed. For his own part, he saw no probability, that if the House voted the money asked for, these works would be brought to a conclusion within three years. There had been no plan submitted to the House since the year 1848, when the estimate was for only £620,000. Parliament had never been consulted upon the subsequent extensions of the works; the House was entirely in the dark upon the matter, and the Government did not seem to know what they were about. He trusted, therefore, that the House would never commit itself to an enormous and unknown expenditure, and would refer the matter to a Committee.
 MR. MONSELL  thought the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman was unsatisfactory. What was Government doing? At Plymouth and other points they were constructing fortifications on the system made necessary by the late improvements in artillery. At Alderney they were constructing fortifications as though the new artillery had never been invented. Either, therefore, they were wrong in continuing these works at all, or, if they did continue them, they were wrong in continuing them on the old system.
 MR. MONSELL  could assure the right hon. Gentleman that he had no desire to alter the constitution of the University of Dublin. He believed that that University was as liberal towards Catholics as it was
 2076 2077
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, that in expressing his views on the subject of education in Ireland, and his deep regret at the manner in which the Motion had been met by the Chief Secretary, he must not be understood as wishing to underrate the benefits conferred on Ireland by the National system. He acknowledged the great improvement it had produced, and the still greater benefits that might be looked forward to as its results. The reason why the National system had worked so well was, because under it for a long time education had been given to the people in the manner in which they were
 2057 2058
 COLONEL SYKES  said, the naval service of India was not only distinguished by its gallantly, but also by its scientific capacity. The members of that service had made valuable surveys of the coast of India, the Red Sea, the Chinese Seas, and the Persian Gulf. They were now, however, like Mahomet's coffin, between heaven and earth, not knowing where they were to find a footing, and believing that they were to be abolished altogether. He
 2031
 SIR GEORGE GREY : The noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn (Lord Stanley) has given notice that he will put a question to me upon this subject tomorrow. I told him that there would be no objection to produce the very report
 2029
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, all the Returns had not been made, and he was afraid there was no power to compel their being furnished. He had no objection to those which had been supplied being laid upon the table.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the Report of the Committee had been printed and circulated the day before yesterday. He had not yet had time to consider it. He had, however, referred the Report to the Chief Commissioner of the Police.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, the real question before the House was whether they would throw away £900,000 already spent, or spend £300,000 more to turn the whole expenditure to good purpose, The most distinguished military and naval men had pronounced in favour of these works; and we might be certain, that if we abandoned Alderney, and went to war with Prance, our neighbours would soon take it and spend double the money on it, if necessary. He believed that Alderney and Portland did really give us the command of the Channel, and be hoped that no English Minister would be guilty of the poltroonery of abandoning the island.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  should be glad to know how far the Government were already implicated in respect of these fortifications.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, What is the position of the Indian Navy; whether that service is to be abolished; and, if so, how the guarantee of the Naval prospects of the Officers of that Service will be carried out? The hon. Baronet said, he was induced to put the Question in consequence of the great anxiety felt on this subject by all who were connected with the service. The question was an important one, as it involved the interests of a class of persons who deserved the best sympathies of the House. These gentlemen were officers who had been sent out to India at a great expense, who had been educated with great care, and whose outfits had cost the country a considerable sum. By the Indian Government Act of the 21 & 22  Vict
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, that at present the Bill stood for progress for Wednesday next, when he trusted it would progress in Committee. If the hon. Gentleman would be good enough to specify his objections to the measure, he (Sir Hugh Cairns) would give them his best attention.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he was afraid that the prospects of this unfortunate service were not very bright. There seemed to be a disposition on the part of the Government of India to violate the guarantees which Parliament had enacted for the safety of the services under the new  régime
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I wish, Sir, to ask the First Lord of the Treasury,
 2027
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  would assent to the second reading; but thought the whole subject of electric telegraphs so important, that it ought to be dealt with by some public measure. As a landowner in Preston, he had himself been very much annoyed by the way in which the telegraphic wires had been laid down. Some person or department ought to have a control over the operations of the companies.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : I said the Senior Fellows had as much as some Members of the Cabinet.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : No. I said that it had 199,000 statute acres, and an income of £9,000 a year, from renewal of short leases.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : What I read were the words in the letter of Archbishop Murray.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : As at present constituted:—the colleges are constituted at present as they were originally founded, and if they do not fulfil their objects now, they could not have done so at any time. I trust, however, I am prepared to show to the satisfaction of the House that these colleges have been eminently satisfactory in their operation, that they have answered the purpose for which they were designed, and that their present position reflects credit on the political foresight of those who established them. The House must-first remember how very ill supplied Ireland was in comparison with England and Scotland with educational or collegiate establishments when the Queen's Colleges were founded. Let hon. Members first look at the educational provision of England, Scotland, and Ireland, and then compare this with the population. At the present time the population of England is about 20,000,000. In addition to the great pub-
 2041 2042 "If the House would give effect to this measure, an education would be provided not inferior to that derived from the Universities of Scotland, and from the University of Dublin." "I think, that as you have given your sanction to an exclusive system in Trinity College, Dublin, for the purpose of supplying clergymen of the Established Church, and as you have connected theological professors of the Presbyterian creed with the Presbyterian institution at Belfast, so do I think that you have wisely and liberally agreed to contribute to the education of the Roman Catholic priesthood, by endowing the College of Maynooth. All these, however, are theological endowments: when dealing with the laity of these three persuasions, I do entreat of your Lordships to permit the youth of Ireland to be educated in common and under the same teachers in all those branches of learning which do not and cannot affect their religious opinions." [ Hansard "I do not see how any man wishing well to the public peace, and who looks to Ireland as his country, can think that peace can be permanently established, or the prosperity of the country ever well secured, if children are separated at the commencement of life on account of their reli-
 2043 2044 2045 s s 2046 "It is gratifying to us to find that, as in former years, the successful candidates continue, for the most part, to have been those who have been trained at the Universities; and we think it is fair to state that the Irish Universities, as has been the case at previous examinations, send us candidates who do credit to the system of instruction and to the professors at those institutions. No less than thirteen of the successful candidates came from Trinity College, Dublin, and among them the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth in the order of merit. Five proceeded from Queen's College. Belfast, including the fourth in order of merit, and one from Queen's College, Galway. We ought to add that eight successful candidates have come from Scotland." 2047 2048 "I wish to bear testimony to the advantages of mixed education, and I think it very desirable that the laity of all persuasions should be educated together." "I beseech, therefore, your Eminence, that it may please you to place at the feet of our most Holy Father the accompanying prayer, signed by thirteen of our Irish Prelates, and humbly begging that, instead of the bitter remedies ( acrioribus remediis vtiliora ad pacem ecclesiœ nostrœ 2049 2050
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : This subject has been very often debated in this House without producing any other result than confirmation of the principles on which the Queen's Colleges and the system of National Education in Ireland were originally founded: therefore I think it is a hope less task, for even an hon. Member so moderate in his tone as the hon. Gentleman who has just addressed us, to endeavour to persuade the House that the educational system established in Ireland has failed to answer the purposes for which it was intended. I believe it is only necessary for hon. Members to examine the Returns which have been presented to the House with reference to National Education in Ireland, in order to satisfy themselves that the success of that system has been growing step by step, and year by year, until it has attained a position producing most gratifying and beneficial results. This National system was established by the present Lord Derby in 1833; and in order to show the House the results that have attended its establishment, I may observe that in 1833 there were only 789 schools, which were attended by a total of 107,000 children. I shall now take three periods, 1841, 1851, and 1861. In 1841 the population of Ireland was about 8,000,000, and the number of children on the rolls 281,000. In 1851 the population was 8,552,000; there were then 4,704 schools, and 520,000 pupils on the rolls. In 1861 the system had progressed in an extraordinary manner, for while the population had diminished to 5,764,000, the schools were 5,632 in number, and the children were about 804,000. It is, I think, a most remarkable fact that at the present moment one-seventh of the population of Ireland are receiving education under the National system. Surely when, after thirty years' experience, you find one-seventh of the
 2040
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : The words in the letter are  acrioribus remediis
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, that if the works at Alderney were finished only to the extent stated by the noble Lord, he pledged his own practical knowledge and reputation that the harbour would be perfectly useless, inasmuch as it would simply have an open mouth towards the sea with out the slightest protection. It was true that the late Government proposed a plan which might ultimately have cost about £2,000,000; but if we were to have a harbour at Alderney at all, the only one which could be of any value would be one constructed according to such a plan. He believed that all the money which had already been spent at Alderney had been thrown away, and therefore he should give his hearty support to the Amendment. The noble Lord had asked the House not to rescind the Vote of the Committee. The House was not asked to rescind that Vote, but merely to institute an inquiry, and he thought that the Government could not regard that as an unreasonable request. The opponents of the Vote had no desire to blame either the present or the late Government for what they had done, although he for one had always protested against the expenditure at Alderney; but what they did complain of was that the Government had not the moral courage to look the matter fairly in the face, and to say, that as a great mistake had been made by some one, no more money should be wasted upon these works.
 MR. STIRLING  said he rose to ask the Lord Advocate or the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to proceed with the Education (Scotland) Bill on Monday next; and, if so, whether it will be taken at such hour as will afford full opportunity of discussing the Bill and the Amendment of which notice has been given?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, whatever may have been the wish of the House expressed on that subject I think the House must at the same time have seen what are the difficulties which surround the question with a view to any satisfactory arrangement. All I can say is, that Her Majesty's Government are not prepared at present to undertake that task.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON ; The hon. Member says that we do not know what we are about. If I might make a retort, I
 2087 2088
 MR. PEEL  said, there was no doubt that the Chapter-house was public property, but no resolution had been come to by the Government on the subject, nor, as far as he knew, had any plan been submitted by the Dean and Chapter upon which action could be taken.
 LORD STANLEY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he will lay on the table the Copy of an application from the Mayor of Lynn asking him to interfere for the purpose of preventing the further extension of the floods in the fen districts, together with other Papers on the subject; and whether the right hon. Gentleman will state to the House the nature of the answer which has been given to this application?
 MR. PEEL  said, the allowance of£300 a year to cover the personal expenses incurred by the Inspectors was not reckoned in calculating the pension, it being the invariable practice to exclude any such payments from the emoluments upon which the pension was founded. As to whether these sums properly formed part of the taxable income of those officers, that was not so much under the control of the Treasury as the other point. He was informed that the assessor in the Office of the Poor Law Board thought that the£300 allowance ought to be taxed, but he was also informed by the Board of Inland Revenue that the question had never been referred to them, and that in their opinion, supposing the£300 to be spent by the Inspectors in the form contemplated by the allowance, it would not be subject to In come Tax.
 LORD NAAS  said, he thought they had arrived at the time when the institution might be put an end to. Teaching an industrial occupation, such as agriculture, at the expense of the State, was, he thought, founded upon very questionable policy. He thought the Government ought to consider the propriety of making a gradual diminution in the Vote.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, the Question of which he had given notice might appear a small one, but it involved the turning-point of the discussion which would take place in a few days with regard to the Spithead forts. Those forts were to stand in the Channel at distances of 2,000 yards apart, and the mid-channel consequently would be 1,000 yards from each. It seemed of the last importance that forts which were intended to stop armour-clad vessels from coming in by day or night, should be able to fire upon them with effect at that distance of 1,000 yards, but hitherto the experiments had been confined to ranges of 200 yards. A section of the  Warrior 2149 2150 Warrior Warrior
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : Sir, I hope the House will not think it necessary to enter at any length into a preliminary and partial discussion of a question which must come before them in a more formal and distinct manner in a short time, when the subject of the Spithead forts is brought under their consideration. I have this evening laid on the table the Report of the Commissioners on the subject, and it will in the course of a few days be in the hands of hon. Members. Now, the gallant Officer who has just spoken says lie should have more confidence in the Report of the Commission if those of whom it was composed did not happen to entertain preconceived opinions on the question which they were appointed to investigate; but I think it right to mention, in order to prevent the existence of any suspicion on that score, that four—two military and two naval—members were added to the Commission in whose case the imputation of partiality because of their preconceived opinions does not apply. In answer to the question put by the hon. and gallant Officer, I can only say that several experiments have already taken place at Shoeburyness, but not at the distance of 1,000 yards. I have not I myself given any particular directions with regard to those experiments, but I think it might be desirable to make some with I the view of ascertaining how far the ordnance in question will act at a considerable distance. It must, however, be borne in mind that the increase in the power of ordnance is rapidly progressive, and that, although no gun at present in existence might be able to pierce the side of an iron
 2151
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  explained that the professors were not intended to be employed in teaching the peasantry, but in teaching the schoolmasters, and it was quite conceivable that a schoolmaster, though he did not teach Greek, Latin, or political economy, might be better qualified for general duties if he had some elementary knowledge of those subjects. The scheme had the support of the National Board and had been in operation for some years.
 LORD NAAS  said, the question raised by the right hon. Member for Limerick was an important one. The right hon. Member seemed to argue that the national system had been done away with. Until that moment he was not aware that there was any Gentleman in the House of Commons who would advocate such a sweeping measure. If the English system was applied to Ireland, the people of that country would practically be left without the inestimable blessings of education. The training establishment in Ireland was not too large for the purposes required. If education was to be carried out to its full extent, there must be training schools. The masters in these schools were selected for their superior attainments, and too much care could not be bestowed on them. Training colleges were intended to teach men the superior branches of education, and he deprecated the turning of the particular inspection in question into ridicule. The
 2166
 LORD NAAS  said, that although he had the misfortune of differing from his right hon. and learned Friend the Member for the University of Dublin on the question before the Committee, he had always been ready to admit, that the scruples entertained by members of the Established Church in connection with it were entitled to the utmost respect, and ought, if possible, to be met. He was, at the same time, bound to confess that he had always been of opinion that the attempt to meet those scruples might be attended with danger to the National system of Education in Ire land, and might be, as a consequence, productive of much injury to the country. He might add, that his late lamented Friend the Earl of Eglintoun, to whom allusion had in the course of the discussion been made, had for a period of ten years devoted the utmost attention to the subject, and had stated, in his place in Parliament, that he had gone to Ireland as Viceroy with a strong desire to comply with the request of the members of the Established Church; but that, after due investigation, he had arrived at the conclusion that he could hit upon no plan by which that end would be secured without driving the Roman Catholic children from the National schools. To the adoption of a course which would have that result, he would be no party. Such were the views of the Earl of Eglintoun on the subject; and for his own part, he might say, while concurring in those views, that he believed it was perfectly possible to give religious instruction under the National system. In support of that opinion he might mention, that he held in his hard two letters from clergymen of the Established Church, in which they stated, that they had no difficulty in communicating such instruction, and that the children under their charge were admirably provided for on that score. But, further than that, it was clear that the Presbyterians of the North of Ireland all supported the system; but could it be supposed that the descendants of men who were said to have carried the sword in one hand and the Bible in the other, would countenance as they did the National system if they believed it to be of the totally unscriptural
 2178
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT : Sir, my only object in asking the indulgence of the House for a few moments is to remove any impression of incorrectness in a statement on the part of Captain Cowper Coles, of the Royal Navy, in his letter to the editor of  The Times Trusty 2111 Trusty The Times
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, that unless he received a pledge that the Vote would not be renewed he should support the Amendment.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Before you leave the chair, Sir, I wish to allude to what has been said by the hon. Mem-
 2156
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Well, the hon. Gentleman said we had never taken it up till—
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : I cannot answer for former Governments; but my hon. Friend was Secretary to the Admiralty for several years. He was Secretary when Captain Coles brought his plan before the Admiralty; and if he felt so strongly on the subject, why did he not take it up then? However, I only deal with the case as regards my noble Friend the Duke of Somerset. In 1858, during the time of the late Government, Captain Coles submitted his plan for protecting the Armstrong guns by means of an iron-plated machine. No measures were taken by the Admiralty, but the Secretary of State for War thought so well of the invention that he desired Captain Coles to prepare a shield for trial, and the shield was accordingly commenced. As soon as the present Government came into office, one of the first important matters they had before them was the invention of Captain Coles, and very soon afterwards the Admiralty proposed to the War Office to finish his shield, and to put it on board a vessel. That was in 1859—three years ago,—and before there was any question of Merimacs or Monitors Captain Coles was desired to prepare that shield, and put it on board the Trusty, an old floating battery. The trial of the cu pola on board the  Trusty 2157 The Times
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : I am thankful that I have to bear the blame, if blame there be, for it is much fairer
 2158
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he was afraid that he could not pledge the Admiralty to give every Officer ten days' leave to visit the Exhibition, but they were desirous of affording every possible facility to Officers who wished to do so.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, he rose to appeal to lion. Gentlemen's sense of justice, and trusted they would not on that occasion imitate the intimidation which had been imputed to the constituency of Longford. The question before the House was a simple one. After an election at Longford, which attracted much attention, the right hon. Baronet, as the mouthpiece of the Government, made a deliberate charge, founded on official documents, against the electors of that county, that they had been guilty of illegal and unconstitutional acts, which, if proved, would place them very low in the social scale. Nay, more; the right hon. Baronet stated that the newspaper accounts of their violence fell short of the actual facts. When that statement was made, a petition against the return had been handed in, and remained to be tried by that House. ["No."] At all events, the right hon. Baronet must have known that such a petition was coming. [Sir R. PEEL: NO, I did not.] Then the right hon. Baronet must have been one of the very few persons who were not aware of it. At all events, the right hon. Baronet's accusation that the election was a mockery, and attended with outrages that
 2136
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he would venture to say a word on the subject, not because he was in any way interested in Ireland, but because the matter had assumed proportions which ought to interest all who set a value on the dignity of that House, as well as those who took an interest in Ireland. The right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland, on a former occasion, speaking in his place in Parliament, and in his official capacity, characterized the Longford election as being marked with an amount of intimidation greater than ever had occurred before—as being signalized by outrage, intimidation, riot, maltreatment, and almost murder. Those were some of the choice expressions which had been made use of on that occasion; that was the indictment which the responsible Minister of the Government in Ireland had drawn up against the electors of Longford. Now, not only had that Minister made no attempt, by legal proceedings or before a Committee of that House, to prove his statement, but he now refused to give the documentary evidence upon which, if upon any evidence at all, his statement in that House must have rested. That did not seem a creditable State of things. He would not say any thing about the policy of the Government in habitually insulting the majority of the people of Ireland, but the right hon. Gentleman was now attempting to hide his own proceedings behind a "No Popery" flare-up. He did not think any person versed in the constitutional practice of this country would at all admire that mode of escaping from a delicate situation. But this he would say, when a Minister of the
 2124
 MAJOR O'REILLY  said, he was sure the House would believe that it was with regret and difficulty that he rose to take part in the present debate on a subject with which he was to some extent personally concerned. If, however, the question had been simply between himself and his late gallant opponent, he would not have said one word. Colonel White contested the county of Longford honourably, and having been defeated, made a declaration, on the spur of the moment, that the proceedings had not been fairly conducted, and that he was determined to petition against the return. Having afterwards made, no doubt, inquiries on the subject, and convinced himself that his hasty statement could not be supported, Colonel White took no further step, and did not petition. But there was something else in the matter, and to that it was desirable that the attention of the House should be called. The subject of the general freedom of election was not, as stated by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate), under consideration; but the question really was, whether a Minister of the Crown, speaking officially as the responsible organ of the Irish Government, was justified in representing, in his place in Parliament, a particular election as a mockery of election, and as more disgraced by scenes of violence and intimidation than any other which had for years occurred in Ireland. His hon. Colleague in the representation of Longford, had called on the right hon. Baronet either to substantiate or withdraw that statement; and the right hon. Baronet had refused to substantiate it in the only way in which any attempt at substantiation could be satisfactory. On the 7th of March, the right hon. Baronet said that his statement was made in consequence of reports which he officially received; the right hon. Baronet now refused to produce those reports, and the only evidence now brought forward was the general allegation of his confident belief that there were Members in that House who knew what he had stated was true. With
 2126
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether the same privilege will be conferred on Officers serving in Her Majesty's Navy as has been conferred on Officers serving in the Army—namely, ten days' leave of absence to visit the Exhibition?
 MR. LEFROY  said, he appealed to the House on the same ground that the hon. and gallant Member opposite (Colonel Greville) had done, as a resident of the county which that hon. Gentleman represented. He (Mr. Lefroy) had represented Longford for a greater number of years than the hon. and gallant Gentleman, and he had had the additional experience of being engaged in many contested elections for the county. He did not now speak as a partisan of the Government; and if the question had been one between his hon. and gallant Friend and the Government, he should not have risen. But his hon. and gallant Friend had made a statement to which he could not give his assent, when he said that Her Majesty's Government had taken a part unbecoming them. Being in possession of the facts, he could not refrain from stating the ground on which he had put the question which had caused so much trouble to the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary, and which called forth the reply which had been referred to in the course of this debate. He thought the Government was perfectly justified in the steps they had taken, and would have been much to blame if they had acted otherwise. He put a question to the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland, in consequence of having received information of violence and intimidation being practised at the election, which made him feel it his duty to do so. His recollection was that the right hon. Baronet gave him in reply a general statement, and he was not aware that the right hon. Gentleman spoke from any official documents. It had been objected that a large number of troops and police had been congregated in the county; but he would say for himself, having been a candidate both in support of and opposition to different Governments, that he could never go to an election in that county without an enormous force of military. He was opposed to Colonel White i 2133 Cries of "Mr.—has requested me to send you particulars of violence and intimidation which may have come under my personal notice during the late election in county Longford. From the way I was circumstanced my means of observation were very limited, having entered Granard hedged in by a very strong escort, and having departed in the same manner. I was, with more than 150 others, confined as a prisoner in the Sessions Court from eight o'clock a m to 5 p.m., no one daring to go into the streets for a moment. On both occasions, going and returning, we encountered a fierce mob, making violent demonstrations—hooting and yelling and flourishing sticks. In the evening, on leaving the town for home, the mob accompanied us for nearly a mile with execrations, yelling like demons, some declaring that if it were not for the military and police we should never leave the town alive. One of my tenants, after he had voted for Colonel White, was abused in the most violent language by a priest, within a few steps of the polling-booths, and also within healing of the mob, though fortunately not within their reach. A grand juror and magistrate who was present, and who kindly interposed, informed me he never witnessed a more uncalled-for or a more violent attack. I have only to add that on the Sunday and Monday night before the election the houses of three of my tenants who are electors were visited, shots fired, and the windows smashed."
 MR. LEFROY  said, the noble Lord who had just sat down ought to be careful how he threw out insinuations in a matter in which he begged to give him the most direct contradiction.
 MR. LEFROY  could not say, but he would be much obliged to the hon. Member (Mr. Brady) if he would find out. The letter he had just referred to was from the Rev. Essex Edgeworth. Another gentleman, Mr. Dopping Hepenstal, a grand juror and a magistrate, wrote thus—
 "Having lately read so very many conflicting statements regarding the late election in this county, and seeing that you are taking a lively interest in the matter, I feel myself called upon
 2134 2135
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  called attention to the great increase which had taken place in the Vote, the amount having nearly doubled within the last ten years.
 MR. LAYARD  in reply said, the Government had received information that the  Bermuda
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he would warn his right hon. Friends on that side of the House not to hold out hopes which, when in power, they would be unable to carry out. While that House made an exclusive grant to Maynooth, it was not just that the Church schools should be excluded from all aid. That was a claim of justice that would force its way sooner or later.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that as a Member for an English county he did not see what the electors of the county of Longford had to complain of. It was perfectly evident that the election had been, in a Parliamentary sense, free; but what was not clear was whether the freedom of election could have been secured without the precautions taken by the Government. It was notorious that a declaration had been made by those who owned a peculiar allegiance to the Sovereign of Rome, that the policy of this country with respect to that Sovereign was to be tested at the Longford election; and he confessed, that, knowing the influence which those persons possessed in Ireland, the Government would have been perfectly inexcusable if they had not taken precautions to secure the freedom of election. They had secured that freedom so well that the return was against the candidate they supported. He was of opinion that what really concerned that House much more intimately than chance expressions falling from a Minister of the Crown, was that the freedom of election should be secured; and if it unfortunately often happened in the sister island that the freedom of election was in danger, that House was bound to support the Government in such measures as would secure the free and un-intimidated return of a Member to that House. That had been done, and under circumstances of no slight difficulty. If there had been any abuse, why had not the petition been proceeded with? When it was proposed to withdraw the petition, why did not some hon. Member rise and demand that it should be proceeded with; or why did not the hon. Member for Long-
 2125
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : Sir, it is not my intention to trouble the House with many observations, because my duty on the present occasion is to play the part of a listener rather than that of a speaker. I feel grateful to the hon. Gentleman who introduced this subject, not only for bringing it forward, but also for the able and temperate manner in which he has treated it. The hon. Gentleman is one of those Indian servants whose presence in this House I gladly hail, because, from their long experience of India, their knowledge, and their judgment, they are entitled to speak with authority in discussions of this kind. I believe the forms of the House will not permit the hon. Gentleman to make the Motion of which he has given notice. However, he has had an opportunity of stating his views to the House; and, as far as the papers go which he wishes to have, I can only say, that if he will give notice either to-night or on some future occasion, he will have them as an unopposed return. The hon. Gentleman thinks that the importance of the measures to which he has referred has been a good deal overrated in this country. I agree with him upon that point; but, on the other hand, I think he himself has rather underrated the importance of the measures in question. It is true that they do not go to the extent which the hon. Gentleman has shadowed out, but at the same time I cannot say that they are of slight importance. With respect, for example, to the sale of waste lands, I do not
 2146
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : I think there is a difference between the lands to which the hon. Gentleman alludes and the pasture lands of India. However, it is not worth while going into the question now, but I maintain the utter impossibility of selling these lands. I even go further, and say that the rights of the natives of India to these lands should be scrupulously observed and carefully guarded. My own opinion is, that the Resolutions do not take sufficient care to guard some of those rights; and therefore in expressing my general approval of the Resolutions, as far as the sale of really waste lands is concerned, I must add, that I think care should be taken, on the one hand, to preserve the rights of those persons to whom a limited occupation of the lands belongs, and, on the other, to protect the State against loss. The hon. Gentleman who
 2147 2148
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, that his noble Friend the Colonial Secretary had not thought it his duty to advise the Crown to accede to the Address voted by both Houses of Parliament in South Australia, praying Her Majesty to remove Mr. Justice Boothby from the Bench. As to the correspondence between Governor M'Donnell and the Duke of Newcastle on the subject of this address, the only objection to print it was its great bulk, if all the voluminous enclosures were given. But if the hon. Gentleman would be satisfied with such a selection as would be fair to all parties, he would lay the correspondence on the table.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, that the whole of the question ought to have been brought before the House and seriously considered on the Estimates. It appeared to him there was some danger of similar questions being used as  ad captandum
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that the proposal which had been made by the right hon. and learned Gentleman was not new, nor had it been enforced by any new arguments. The proposal was as old as the system of united education in Ireland, and it had always been answered by the same arguments, and had always met with the same decided rejection by the House of
 2173 2174
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he must repeat what he had stated upon the authority on which he had made the statement, and he would add that he believed it was the practice to open schools in Ireland with prayer. He made that statement in the presence of many hon. Members, who could correct him if he was wrong, but he believed that he was right. [Sir HUGH CAIRNS: Hear!] His hon. and learned Friend the Member for Belfast cheered the statement; and he was sure that it was the practice of the Presbyterians to open their schools with prayer. Such being the state of things at present, what did the right hon. and learned Gentleman want? He desired that the public money should be given to those who insisted upon teaching the Scriptures during school hours to those whose parents did not wish them to receive such instruction. From the very commencement of the undertaking, that had been forbidden by the rules of the Board, and by the highest authority upon the subject. In 1833 Lord Stanley, speaking of the Scriptures, said—
 "To introduce the reading or hearing of any such book during the ordinary school hours—namely, those during which children of all denominations are expected to attend—would be a palpable violation of religious liberty." 2175
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he believed, that though the children could not be compelled to attend when the prayers were being said, some of the schools were opened with prayer.
 COLONEL GREVILLE  said, he rose to move for reports on the subject of the Longford Election; and in so doing he wished to call attention to a statement made in his official capacity by a Minister of the Crown, and one charged with very important functions in connection with the Government of Ireland. That statement had reference to the Longford election, and was so remarkable a one that he felt it his duty to bring it under the notice of the House at the earliest possible moment, and to ask on what grounds it had been made. It was quite true that some time had elapsed since the statement to which he referred was made; but after he had resolved on bringing it under the notice of
 2117 2118 2119 Daily Express 2120 "Sir,—I see there is to be a petition with reference to the Longford election. As a native of that county, and an elector, I could not allow the misstatements that are circulated with reference to intimidation used at the election to pass un noticed; and I wrote to the  Irish Times "THOMAS ROBERT BURROWES, "Rector of Hutton, Somersetshire." Laughter 2121
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, he wished to ask Her Majesty's Government, Whether the Chapter-house of Westminster Abbey is public property; if so, whether Her Majesty's Government are about to restore it to the Dean and Chapter of Westminster, and under what conditions?
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  said, that the feeling in Ireland was strongly against these schools. He believed, as his noble Friend had said, that the time had passed when that spoon-feeding system was neces-
 2179
 MR. CHILDERS  observed, that the Government granted £3,000 in aid of the lecturers at the training colleges in England, in addition to,£4,500 contributed to that purpose by the managers of the training colleges. The corresponding sum for Ireland was only £900.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he should be quite satisfied with this arrangement.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, What action Her Majesty's Government have taken in regard to the Petitions from both Houses of Parliament in South Australia, praying Her Majesty to remove Mr. Justice Boothby from the Bench of South Australia; and whether there will be any objection to produce the correspondence between Governor M'Donnell and the Duke of Newcastle on the subject of those Petitions?
 MR. MILDMAY  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether he has any information that the British steamer  Bermuda
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he wished to ask whether the Committee were aware of the manner in which it was proposed to spend the public money? He found mentioned in the Vote two professors, who were to lecture on the English language and literature, history, geography, mathematics, political economy, and natural philosophy. There were also two assistants, to these professors, a classical instructor for special class teachers, a literary teacher to agricultural pupils in training, a professor for music, and lecturers on physical science and botany. Every subject in the world appeared to be cared for, except the teaching of the Ten Commandments.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he wished to ask if there was a rule, according to which a school could, as a school, be opened with prayer.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, the speech of the Earl of Eglintoun, which the noble Lord had quoted, was delivered in 1854, while the conversation of which he himself had spoken took place in 1858.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he believed the schools supported by the State had ruined the smaller private schools. They had certainly given very superior schools for the peasantry, and he rememembered a deputation urging that if money was voted for the education of the poor, the intermediate schools should receive support. The Government had not answered the question of his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Belfast. Classical teachers were provided for "special classes;" were they classes for Herodotus, Euripides, Cicero, or Virgil? He should like to know for what part of Tipperary these classes were intended.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he rose to call the attention of the Committee to the grievance under which the supporters of Scriptural education in Ireland labour. It was a short case and a very clear one. The myth called "united education" did not exist; and it was a mistake to sup pose that national education meant united education. It was said that there were 500,000 or 600,000 scholars attending the national schools; but the fact was, that the number was 300,000, and no more. He was interested on behalf of those who supported Scriptural schools in Ireland, which the noble Lord at the head of the Government in Ireland pronounced to be in no way inferior to any schools. It could not be denied that the Protestants paid their share of the income, and of every other tax. The grievance of which they complained was, that while they contributed to the general funds out of which the system of national education was supported, they were excluded from all participation in those funds. The condition of the Scriptural schools was better that year than it was in the last; and as a large number of the Catholic pupils were taught in the same schools as Protestant Dissenters, it appeared that there was more united education in schools where the Bible was read than in schools where it was not. There were on the roll of the Church Education Society 230,000 scholars well taught at the expense of persons who contributed to those schools, as well as to the fund out of which the national system was maintained. Last year he went into the matter rather mi-
 2169 2170 2171 2172
 MR. BRADY  said, he could not but express his surprise at hearing the noble Lord stand up in his place and malign the people of Ireland. When such a thing was done, it was, he thought, the bounden duty of every Irishman to refute the calumny. He was through the county of Longford on the first day of the election, and in the course of his life he had never seen a county which was more peaceable, and, indeed, that election contrasted most favourably with some which had occurred in England. The right hon. Baronet had said that he had had nothing to do with the Longford election, but he (Mr. Brady) knew that he had canvassed electors in London on that occasion. He did not blame him for doing so, but he did think it strange that, after having done so, he should rise in his place and assert that he had taken no part in the election. The refusal of the papers now asked for would have a most serious effect in Ireland. He joined with the hon. Member who made
 2132
 MR. BRADY : Who fired shots?
 MR. SPEAKER  explained, that by the division the House had decided that the words "that the Speaker do now leave the chair "form part of the Question, and that it was not competent for any hon. Member to move an Amendment, although he might make any statement which he pleased.
 MR. HENNESSY  observed, that the result of the instruction in political economy was that the right hon. Baronet had not a single supporter in Ireland.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that in reference to a statement made by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxford, he wished to state that, according to the rules of the Board, a National school could not be opened with prayer.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he did not think the education of Ireland had been raised to a point which ought to excite the alarm even of those hon. Gentlemen who had a prejudice against national education. As to the Vote for teaching navigation, the hon. Member for Liskeard seemed to forget that Ireland was an island having a large seaboard, and that therefore instruction in navigation was useful to her people. In her large cities and towns, too, there were great numbers of mechanics, to whom a knowledge of elementary drawing was of the utmost importance. He agreed in much of the noble Viscount's speech on education, which had been animadverted upon, though he regretted that in that speech the noble Lord had disowned Ireland as his birthplace, stating that he was a Romsey man. Parliament ought to raise the  status s
 MR. MAGUIRE : What of the other districts?
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he rose to call attention to the existence of serious and increasing distress in the western and south-western districts of the County Cork; to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland if his attention has been directed to the condition of these localities; and, if so, whether he has taken any steps himself, or advised any steps to be taken, with a view to their immediate or prospective relief? If he could possibly have avoided again bringing forward that painful subject, he would most gladly have done so; but having introduced the subject on former occasions, he felt it to be his duty to persevere, and more especially as he desired to obtain a statement from the representative of the Irish Government in that House, frankly and fairly admitting that the distress in Ireland—but he (Mr. Maguire) would now say in those particular localities to which he now wished to direct the attention of the House—was worthy of every consideration. The principal object which he had in view in again calling attention to this subject was to induce the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland to deal with this question in a fair and kindly spirit and not to check the tide of sympathy which he (Mr. Maguire) asserted was ready to flow in the direction of those unfortunate people, who were suffering from no bad conduct of their own, but from a dispensation of Providence. It was his intention, on the present occasion, to confine himself to one locality in Ireland. He would not ask the right hon. Baronet or the House to follow him even over one entire county; but he should take certain portions of that county, and show such a state of distress as must convince any impartial Gentleman that it was well worthy of the serious attention of the Government and of the commiseration of the people of the United Kingdom. He must tell the House that he had sent a confidential person down to certain districts of the County Cork, with instructions to go into the houses of the people, to observe for himself, make minute inquiry, and to represent the real state of
 2100 2101 "Everywhere a picture of misery met the eye. Most of the houses were of the most miserable description, and in scarcely one was a bit of fuel to be seen. Everywhere want and destitution seemed to have reached their extremest limits; the only food to be seen anywhere being yellow Indian meal, and in some houses there was none even of that. Unwholesome as such food must be when badly cooked, it was made still worse by the mixture of a kind of seaweed, which was gathered on the rocks for the purpose of eking out the insufficient quantity of Indian meal." "When we entered this man's house, his wife and children were there before us. A description of the house would only be a repetition of what I stated before regarding others, but the children and the mother herself appeared to be in a very advanced state of starvation. The children were sitting silently on rude seats near each other. Their faces were deadly pale, their eyes without lustre, and the appearance of the limbs was absolutely frightful—they were literally skin and bone. The lower parts of the legs had lost all human shape, the calves having disappeared altogether, and leaving nothing but the bone tightly covered with a coat of skin. A more complete picture of starvation could not be seen. Their whole food that day—it was then late in the afterneen—had been a basin of Indian meal, which a neighbour, who perhaps was little better off than themselves, had given them, and a morsel of food was not in the house when I visited it." 2102 "He has four children, and when I entered, his wife and two of his daughters were within. The wife was a respectable-looking woman, of an appearance superior to the generality of her neighbours. The daughters, who were seated at spin-
 2103 "One man, whose own appearance bespoke anything but the possession of wealth, but who had some little credit left, had gone security for about a score of bags of Indian meal for families who have at present no visible means of raising a shilling, nor any prospect of it, unless something is done for their relief, and he will be obliged to pay for all, should those who got it not meet with some piece of good fortune which will enable them to pay, but of which there seems little or no prospect. But this is not all he did. The extent to which the man was involving him self for others seemed to have frightened the dealers, for they finally refused to accept his security any further, and he then handed over to the poor man, on whose behalf he had tendered it, a bag of meal which he had purchased for his own use. This man has a wife and children, and when asked why he ran the risk of involving himself to such an extent, and, perhaps, of plunging his family into destitution, his reply was, that he could not find it in his conscience to see others starving while he could procure them food." "In the next house we visited, a young woman, remarkably handsome, with features beautifully-chiselled, but pale, wan, and depressed-looking, was sitting on the ground, with a pale, sickly-looking infant in her lap, and another child, a little older, lying asleep in some rags at her side. Near her was seated an old woman, her mother-in-law. The young woman's husband, Timothy
 2104 s s d s s d d "In justice to the dealers, it should be added that the risk is very great, and that there are many debts now in their books of which they will never get a farthing. To one of them alone small sums are due amounting altogether to about£4,000, and his prospects of payment depend principally on the next harvest." 2105 "The first house I entered there was that of Darby Harrington. Harrington himself was within before us, and the first glance was sufficient to show the extent to which he must have suffered from hunger. He was the very impersonation of famine. His cheeks were sunken and hollow, and there was a wild scared expression in his eyes, which told clearly that his mental faculties were giving way under the strong pressure of hunger. As to his physical powers, they had already very nearly departed, and he was actually dying by slow stages of starvation. A wife, two children, and his mother-in-law composed his family, and all they had to eat was what little the mother-in-law could get among the neighbours. None of them had eaten anything that morning, and over the fire—which was fed by green furze—was a pot in which; a small quantity of Indian meal was boiling. A man would have eaten the entire of it with ease, and this was to be the sole meal of the family for the day. It had been collected shortly before by the mother-in-law, but for whose exertions in this way the entire family would have starved. Harrington holds a small plot of ground at a yearly rent of £4. He paid a portion of the last gale with some money which he had earned in Waterford. He could not get work at home; and even if employment were offered to him, when I saw him he could not avail of the offer, for his strength was entirely gone. He had planted some potatoes in his land; but though he had manure for it lying near his house, he was unable, through weakness, to take it to the lard and spread it. His appearance bespoke the truth of the statement, for, as I have already remarked, it was that of a man dying of starvation. The only furniture in the house was two chairs. The bed consisted of some straw, with one small thin quilt." "The children were the very pictures of famine, and a little girl, the child of a neighbour, who had come to the Crowleys' house in the hopes of finding a spark of fire there to warm herself, was a really horrifying spectacle. She was literally reduced to skin and bone; her lower limbs, which were left to a great extent uncovered by her scanty frock when she stood up, were without the slightest appearance of calves, and the bones, covered tightly with skin, were all that remained." 2106 2107
 MR. MAGUIRE : It is very important I should remind the House that I stated that Aghadown was not in so bad a condition as other places.
 MR. SMOLLETT  said, that in that case he would, without making any Motion, call the attention of the House and of the Government to the Resolutions which had been promulgated by the Governor General of India in Council in the month of October last. And he hoped the House would grant its attention, because the question was of some importance, although its importance had been considerably exaggerated. He wished it had rested with some more prominent Member to initiate the discussion, although he was perfectly familiar with the subject. The Resolutions, when first published, were received in this country with favour, and almost with enthusiasm.  The Times 2138 2139 2140 2141 2142
 MR. SMOLLETT  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the following Motion which he had placed on the Notice Paper:—
 "To move an Address for Copy of the Resolutions of the Governor General of India in Council, promulgated in October, 1861, and of the Papers and Minutes on which these Resolutions were framed, the first authorizing the sale of waste Lands in perpetuity, and the second permit ting the redemption of Land Revenues in certain cases; and to call the attention of the House to
 2137
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : I am not making an attack upon the Admiralty, but upon you.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : I said for seven years.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : I never said anything about public opinion.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Sir, I regret the absence from the House of my noble Friend the Secretary to the Admiralty on this occasion. Early in the evening our attention was called by the hon. and gallant Admiral the Member for Christchurch (Admiral Walcott) to a correspondence, reflecting in terms, I think, rather unnecessarily severe, on a distinguished gentleman—Captain Coles—in consequence of a letter which he wrote in the public press. Now, I think my noble Friend ought to have taken the opportunity to remove a misapprehension which seems to prevail with respect to the intentions of the writer of that letter; and as the noble Lord is not now in his place, I must ask leave to correct some of the statements on the subject which have been made. The noble Lord objected, and I think justly, to an officer on full pay carrying on a correspondence on professional matters in the public newspapers. That, in my opinion, is a course which in principle is mischievous. But then Captain Coles does not come before the public as an officer on full pay, but as an inventor, and an inventor, too, who has not been treated with the greatest courtesy or con-
 2152 Warrior Warrior 2153 2154 Warrior
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he questioned how far the House was justified in increasing the Vote year after year, for such a high education in an agricultural country. He recognised in the remarks of the noble Lord the very excellent lecture on education which he had delivered at Romsey, but it did not apply to Ireland, where they were teaching an an agricultural population. If the noble Lord delivered such a lecture in the interior of Ireland, the peasantry, who earned 10 d 2167
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, the Vote under discussion was for the model farm at Glasnevin, upon which a discussion upon the religious education of Ireland had been raised. The object of the model farm was to teach agriculture. Now, the best object of a farm was to make it pay. The farm, however, incurred a loss of £54: per annum, and he had never yet been able to find a man who, after having been instructed at the farm, went into the provinces and took a farm. He should like to have some information as to what the real Use of the farm was.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he believed that the question of national education in Ireland was running riot, and he very much doubted whether they were not carrying education in that country far beyond the wants or the intelligence of the people. He was the patron of five or six schools, and he never went to any of them without being struck with the fact that they were not giving to the people the useful, practical education which their circumstances demanded. The right hon. Gentleman said, that the professors were not to teach peasants, but masters; but it was worth considering whether giving such an education to men who received £25 a year—["No, no!"]—yes, £25 to £30 was about the salary of the ordinary parish schoolmaster in Ireland—whether they were not over-educating them, and making them discontented with their remuneration. State education in any shape was questionable; but if the
 2161
 MR. MORE O'FERRALL  said, that be did not consider the explanation of the
 2160
 MR. MORE O'FERRALL  said, he objected to the item of £800 for salaries of two professors employed as training masters and lecturers on the English language and literature, geography, mathematics, political economy, and natural philosophy, at £400 a year each. What was the necessity for sending such persons into the country parts of Ireland to teach the sciences? Would it not be better to give the money granted for their salaries to increase the salaries of the underpaid masters throughout the country? He should move, with a view to test the opinion of the Committee, that the sum be reduced by £400. There was also a classical instructor for special class teachers with a salary of £100. Was it, then, intended to teach all the poor Irish peasantry Latin and Greek?
 MR. MORE O'FERRALL  said, that some of the model schools had no pupils,
 2168
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, the old village schools of Ireland gave a kind of education very superior to the mere elementary teaching of reading, writing, and arithmetic, advocated by the hon. Member for Liskeard; and as the State had assumed the education of the lower class, it ought not to give it of an inferior description to what the people had before. He trusted that the right hon. Gentleman would not persevere in his Amendment, as he should feel I bound to vote against it.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the practice of the House was to take the items in order.
 MR. CONOLLY  said, he trusted that the House would not allow itself to be led away on the question, particularly when it had taken a decided turn in the direction of an attempt to run a muck against the right hon. Baronet. No doubt it was advisable to afford protection to voters, and the last person to complain should be the hon. Member for Longford. There was no doubt that the hon. and gallant Gentleman was the popular candidate, and that the result of the election was in accordance with the wishes of the bulk of the people in the county. But at the same time there was a strong feeling in the county at that time, and it was quite compatible that at places where there were strong bodies of troops the proceedings were orderly, while in the country districts where there was less protection, violence and intimidation were rife. He had seen similar things on other occa-
 2127
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, he thought there was no country so much in need of instruction in political economy as Ireland. As to natural philosophy, no doubt the rudiments of knowledge of this sort were more useful even to the lowest class of peasants. As for the school not teaching the girls to cook, they did not profess to teach cooking. What they undertook to teach was reading, writing, and arithmetic. If Government interference was to be abolished, let that question be fairly raised and settled; but if not, he thought these petty objections were unfounded, and he should not record his vote in favour of any such Motion as the present.
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, that the question before the Committee was not whether the children in Ireland, but whether the masters themselves, should receive a superior education. He contended that they ought to do so.
 MR. MONSELL  denied that he had advocated the introduction of the English system in Ireland. He had said nothing against the spread of parish schools; on the contrary, what he had contended was that public money should not be devoted for instruction in political economy to those who could find funds for their own education.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he quite concurred in the praise of Irish quickness and intelligence which had been pronounced by the noble Lord, who, however, had passed a less favourable judgment upon his countrymen at an early period of the evening. The principle which had boon laid down by the noble Lord with regard to Ireland was at variance with that which had been affirmed from the Treasury bench during the recent discussions on the Revised Code. He contended that such things as political economy should not be taught at the public expense. It was right, as far as the national finances would allow, to contribute to the education of those who were unable to educate themselves. He did not object to increase the salaries of the schoolmasters, or to multiply the parish schools; but it was not right to give the public money to afford education of a higher class to people who were well able to pay for themselves, He should certainly support the Amendment.
 MR. MONSELL  observed, that the right hon. Gentleman had said that it was not the ordinary custom to produce confidential reports made by the police; but his (Mr. Monsell's) experience was, that whenever a Minister of the Crown, in making a statement, read or referred to a report, he was bound to produce it. The right hon. Baronet had stated, upon the authority of official documents, that the Longford Election was a mockery, and had been characterized by singular atrocities and enormities, and therefore he was bound to produce them. What was the rule laid down by Mr. May, a high authority in reference to the practice in such cases. Mr. May said, "It has also been admitted that a document cited by a
 2129
 MR. MONSELL  said, he had an anterior reduction to propose.
 MR. MONSELL  seconded the Motion.
 MR. VANSITTART  said, he thought that his hon. Friend the Member for Dumbartonshire deserved great credit, not only for the manner in which he had brought forward a question relating to, perhaps, the most important measures which had been passed during the administration of Earl Canning, but for having raised the; first Indian debate which had taken place during that uneventful Session. He did not, however, agree with his hon. Friend that these measures should be regarded merely as a fragmentary instalment of what should be done in the matter. On the contrary, he very much questioned whether they did not go quite far enough, although the results to be derived from their adoption might disappoint the expectations of those who had been so clamorous for their introduction, in order to suit their own views, without duly considering the hardships and injustice which was likely to be inflicted upon our native fellow-subjects in India. He wished also to be informed whether, in dealing with the ques-
 2143 2144 2145 "I do not believe any English gentleman can descend so low as to fathom the cunning, the deceit, and depravity of the Bengalee ryot's character unless he has had monetary transactions with him."
 MR. VANSITTART : What I stated was, that by the 55th paragraph of the Government Resolutions those very lands to which the right hon. Baronet is now referring, if not brought into a state of cultivation within five years after the settlement, are liable to be sold.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he would postpone his Motion.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, there were certain items in the Vote which ought not to be defrayed out of the taxes of the people either of England or Ireland. There was in the first place eighteen establishments denominated "Model literary schools." He did not think that the public ought to be taxed for literary schools. The salaries of the principal, and teachers was no less than £6,900, and there were other items, making a total charge of £18,610 for these schools. The salaries of work-mistress and teachers of higher branches of needlework in the industrial schools amounted also to £6,500. That, he thought, was an objectionable charge. In the debates on the Revised Code it had been held that the instruction fitted for English children should consist only of reading, writing, and arithmetic. Again,
 2159
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  complained that the votes for education in Ireland did not all appear in one part of the Estimates. On a former occasion they had voted £66,000 for education in Ireland; now they were asked for this additional sum. He adhered to his previously-expressed desire to see the Vote reduced by the sum of £7,041 for agricultural schools, for which the English taxpayer ought not to pay.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If he received a statement from the Lord Mayor and Municipal Council of Dublin on the 29th of September, 1861, praying that the Citizens of Dublin might be relieved from the support of Lunatics not belonging to the Dublin District, and that additional Governors for the Richmond Lunatic Asylum might be selected from the Municipal Council?
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Two or three days ago, Sir, I received letters from the Mayor of Lynn and from the incumbent of a parish in the neighbourhood, who expressed their opinion that sufficient
 2098
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, it was no doubt very desirable that adequate punishment should be dealt out in cases of violent assault. The particular cases to which his hon. Friend referred he knew nothing of, with the exception of two to which his attention had been specially called, and which had been adjudicated upon by the Lord Mayor of London. He did not think, after reading the reports which appeared in the newspapers, that there was anything to justify his interference, or in directing the attention of the Lord Mayor to them with a view to explanation. It would be wrong from merely reading a report in a newspaper to come to a conclusion that a judge had failed in his duty, who had not only heard the evidence, but
 2113
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I quite agree with the hon. Gentleman that the result of the last election for Longford was in accordance with the current of popular opinion there, and, having had the opportunity of hearing the hon. and gallant Gentleman address the House on several occasions, I must say he has always done so with ability, moderation, and good tem per. However much I may regret the opinions of the majority of the electors of Longford, and however much I may regret the defeat of Colonel White, still I do not think that with these opinions they could have made a better choice than they have made. But that is not the question. A charge is made against the Government that they adopted the course—and I wonder that it should be considered an unusual course in Ireland—of sending into a county on the eve of an election, where party feeling was strong, and where disturbances were consequently to be apprehended, an additional force of police and military. That has been the universal practice in Ireland whenever application has been made to the Government, and it is not without precedent in this country. Upon the occasion of a late election I had a representation made to me by the mayor of a borough that serious apprehensions were entertained that disturbances would occur; and upon that, although I did not send troops into the town, I made such arrangements that they could be brought in at half an hour's notice, should the civil power be found inadequate to preserve the peace. I think in the case we are now considering the Government did its duty, and only its duty. My right hon. Friend is supposed to have spoken from official information; but such is not the fact. He spoke from general information of what had occurred, but, as he has said, with a firm
 2128
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he had always been glad to admit that it would be difficult to exaggerate the benefit conferred upon Ireland by the national system of education. That system in theory was far from being perfect, and he should have been well satisfied if in its inception it had assumed a different form; but he had al ways thought that great care and caution would be required before any change could
 2176 2177
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he hoped the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary
 2162
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, that the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary
 2163
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, that having come that day from the scene of action, he thought it right that he should say a few I words on the subject. He had also some little criticism to offer on the remarks made with respect to the Armstrong gun by the hon. Member for Liskeard. The  Warrior Warrior Warrior 2155 Warrior
 SIR ROBERT CLIFTON  said, he rose to call attention to the increased expenditure for National Defences in time of Peace, and to move for Papers respecting the Armaments of France. The subject was one of great importance, not only to the taxpayers of this country, but to every hon. Member in the House who had come there pledged to retrenchment and economy. He was afraid that when such hon. Gentlemen met their constituents at the end of the Session they would have but a sorry account to give of themselves. He believed that the armaments of France were far from being so large as had been stated, and hoped to be able to show that they had lately been much reduced. The noble Lord stated the other night that France had built and was building thirty-one iron ships and had 646,000 men under arms. [Viscount PALMERSTO: That is a mistake; it should be 446,000.] He must then have misunderstood the noble Viscount. He stated, however, that in addition there were 170,000 conscripts of the present year who might be called out in a moment, besides 200.000 of the National Guard. When M. Fould entered office, Europe was told that France was about to practise economy in all her national expenditure, and especially with regard to her army and navy. The statement of the noble Lord, however, was most inconsistent with the observance of those promises. Last year a law was made that no extraordinary loan should be granted for war purposes; and the Army Estimates for the present year were set down at 375,000,000 f f 2114
 SIR ROBERT CLIFTON  said, that after the statement of the noble Lord at the head of the Government he would beg leave to withdraw his Motion.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : Sir, I ask the indulgence of the House while I make a few observations with reference to some remarks which fell from mo on a former occasion. The assertion which I then made I am bound to say was entirely founded on fact. When I made that assertion, there was considerable anxiety and alarm in the county of Longford. I believe every gentleman in the county knows it, and it is generally known through Ireland. The hon. and gallant Gentleman says that the feeling in the county of Longford with respect to the election had reference not to the Italian policy of the Government, but to the general unpopularity of the course pursued by Her Majesty's Ministers in Ireland. That statement is not founded on fact so far as the Roman Catholic clergy of the county of Longford are concerned, because, after holding a meeting before the election, they put out a placard, in which they stated that they must return a man who would support the Pope, and not one who supported the policy of Her Majesty's Government, which was in hostility to the Pope. But the hon. and gallant Gentleman referred more particularly to the fact that a large number of troops, stipendiary magistrates, and constabulary were sent to Longford, saying that it was done with a view to intimidate the electors, and that there was almost one soldier to every elector. Now, I have nothing whatever to do with that. The force that was sent
 2122 2123
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : I sent Mr. Horsley to inquire into the statements of the Special Commissioner of the  Cork Examiner "The statements of the  Cork Examiner
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : Sir, it is not my intention to occupy the attention of the House for more than three or four minutes, because upon three or four occasions I have had the opportunity of answering the remarks of the hon. Gentleman, and showing, that however the Government may regret the distress which they have never denied existed in some portions of the south and south-west, it was still impossible for the Government to foresee all the circumstances to which he has referred. The cases to which the hon. Gentleman has now directed attention, appear to have been brought under his notice by a special correspondent whom he has sent to the district. The Government cannot, how ever, pay attention to the accounts in every local newspaper, but must gather its information from those sources and from the ordinary operation of the Poor Law. Out of courtesy to the hon. Member, I requested the Poor Law Commissioners to send down an Inspector to inquire specially into the cases to which he referred. The Inspector, Mr. Horsley, stated, that although there was a certain amount of distress and suffering in the islands off the village of Baltimore, it did not exceed that which prevailed in ordinary seasons. Mr. Horsley further reported on May 21—
 "The sanitary condition of the population is, upon the whole, excellent; and that, notwithstanding the privations and hardships to which a considerable portion of it has lately been subjected, fever and sickness, the usual concomitants of a want of sufficient food and other necessaries of life, have not hitherto manifested themselves to any appreciable extent. I do not apprehend that any deaths will occur from actual starvation. Such a calamity will be averted by prompt and liberal action on the part of the Board of Guardians, and by the benevolent exertions now being made." 2108 2109
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : I have already spoken of Skibbereen and Castletown. I have received the following communication from the board of guardians of the latter union, dated the 8th of May:—
 "This Board further states that it disbelieves the very exaggerated reports of destitution spread by a party, and which have had the effect of encouraging idleness and discontent at imaginary wrongs among the poor. They cannot too highly blame the promoters of these false reports; this (Mary Murphy's case) being the only case of alleged destitution, it will hardly support the views of those who had raised this cry of distress." "From all quarters the most cheering accounts of the prospects of the entire crop in the county of Cork have arrived. For many years there has not been so good a likelihood of an abundant yield of cereals and green crops." 2110
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  in reply said, he had received a statement from the Lord Mayor and Municipal Council of Dublin at the time mentioned, but the hon. Baronet must know that the law as regarded Dublin was the same as was in force all
 2096
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : After the observations just made by my noble Friend, and after the remarks of my hon. Friend the Member for the University of Dublin, I can now honestly state, without any breach of confidence, what were the foundations—["Order, order!"]
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he would state what were the items of increase and what of decrease on the year's Vote. As to the two professorships, his right hon. Friend the Minister for War had already clearly explained their position to the Committee. The whole amount of increase in the Vote was £5,526 over last year. There were seven items of increase and four of decrease. There was an increase in the metropolitan model schools of £350 3 s. d.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that the Vote was precisely the same as that adopted last year; and as the number of scholars had increased, and there was consequently greater need for the money, he presumed that the Committee would not reduce a Vote which had been approved formerly.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, there were lectures and other advantages connected with the school which prevented its merits from being tested by a standard of pecuniary profit and loss. There was a de crease on the Vote of £220 that year, and further reductions might fairly be looked for in future. The pupils, though they did not take farms, became land stewards in Ireland, and disseminated much valuable practical information through the country.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he had himself suggested whether a diminution of these Votes might not be possible. An actual deduction had taken place; but there seemed to be a feeling on the part of the Committee to reconsider these Votes.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he wished to call the attention of the Secretary of State for the Home Department to the punishment awarded in recent cases of personal violence. He would first refer to a case which occurred on the 29th April, in which a violent assault was committed upon
 2112 s s
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether Poor Law Inspectors receiving salaries of£700 a year, and commuted allowances of£300, were charged Income Tax upon£1,000 a year, and allowed superannuation upon£700 a year only; and if so, upon what principle this distinction was made?
 SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR  said, he thought the hon. Member might move it afterwards.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, it may no doubt be the true doctrine that when a Minister of the Crown reads a document in this House, and founds upon it an argument or an assertion, that document, if called for, ought to be produced. But, unless my memory deceives me, my right hon. Friend the Chief Secretary quoted no documents for this purpose. He relied upon private letters which he had received—[Several hon. MEMBERS: NO; official letters]—and said that they contained statements which showed the existence of violence and intimidation. Now, with
 2130 naïve 2131
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I accept my hon. Friend's challenge. He says what I stated at Romsey might do very well for a town, but not for an unenlightened district of Ireland. [Mr. BERNAL OSBORNE: Agricultural.] I will just give him an instance in point. On my estate in Sligo there was a boy, the son of a labouring man, he received a very good education at one of these schools there; his natural talent was cultivated; he went to the Botanical Gardens at Kew and distinguished himself there; afterwards he was employed by Sir Joseph Paxton at the Crystal Palace, where he was found to be very intelligent. He was then engaged in the Army Corps in the Crimea, and he now holds an excellent situation at a high salary in the county of Sligo.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I confess I have heard with regret the grounds upon which this discussion has turned as to the original principles of education. Those who oppose the vote take, I think, a very low view of this important matter. It is very well to say the object is to teach the peasantry, who want nothing but a knowledge of reading, writing, and arithmetic, and that therefore it is absurd to teach the masters anything beyond that. That doctrine was held thirty years ago, when the principles of education were not understood, and when old prejudices ran against giving the lower classes knowledge even to the extent of reading and writing. The art of teaching is an art like other arts, and for a man to teach anything well his mind must be well cultivated, and above the mark to which he is to bring his pupils. The mind is like the body. Why are the French soldiers taught all sorts of gymnastic exercises? Not because they are going to perform those exercises in the face of an enemy, but because they may acquire a perfect knowledge of the movements of the human body. As it is with the body so it is with the mind. A. man who knows nothing but reading, writing, and arithmetic is about on the same level with the pupils he is to teach, and will make a bad hand in teaching them even those small things you expect him to teach. But are these things small? Is it useless to a peasant to know the elementary principles of political economy? We have been for years in this House urging the great importance of teaching the humbler classes the elementary principles of political economy. In consequence of the knowledge the working classes have acquired of those elementary principles a great deal of discontent has been avoided that might otherwise have arisen among men who were suffering from privations, the causes of which they misunderstood. Is natural philosophy useless? What is natural philosophy? It begins with mechanics; and is it not useful for the peasant to know the principles of the screw, the plane, the Wedge, and the pulley, things which he pay be called upon to put in practice every
 2164 d
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I can assure my hon. Friend that I am not aware of a panic anywhere but on the title-page of a pamphlet. There has been no panic in the country. There has been a deliberate conviction, calmly and very wisely arrived at, that it was necessary for this country to be in a state of readiness as
 2115 Moniteur de la Flotte Moniteur de l' Armée 2116
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether he will undertake that the audited accounts of the Military Expenditure of 1860–1 will be laid on the table of the House in time to be printed and in the hands of Members previous to the discussion which is to take place next week, with reference to the public expenditure? By Act of Parliament it was provided that these accounts should be laid on the table previous to the 1st of June.
 MR. PEEL  replied, that he could give no positive assurance that these accounts would be ready to be presented before the
 2194
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, it was not his intention to move the second reading of this Bill, but, on the contrary, to move that the order be discharged. He wished shortly to state his reasons for taking that course. He certainly should not have been deterred from proceeding with the Bill by the criticisms that had been made in Scotland on the subject; for although there were many objections urged against the Bill, yet they were of a nature so much connected with its details, and were in themselves so inconsistent, that they rather confirmed him in his impression that the provisions of the Bill were fair to the country in general, and did not lean improperly on any section of the community. That the Bill made extensive changes was true; and it was true that several sections of the community, the Established Church and the Free Church, were in turn affected by it. But that effect would have been, he thought, for the public benefit. Even the composition, of the Commission that was to carry the Bill into operation had been made a ground of opposition to it. It was said that the Commission was composed of persons who were otherwise occupied. He wondered that objection was never raised to the University Commissions of 1826 and 1858 which consisted almost wholly of Gentlemen with a large practice at the bar or of Cabinet Ministers, and hardly at all of persons who could be supposed to have much leisure. He thought he should have been entirely wrong if he had not followed the same course. The country would not have been satisfied if the important interests involved had been intrusted to men not already in possession of marked public confidence by being in positions of responsibility. But, looking at the difficulties of the question, and the differences of opinion in Scotland upon it, he had thought it right, before proceeding to the discussion of the Bill that evening, to ascertain the opinion of the representatives of Scotland. He found, though there was a general feeling in favour of the measure, that there were difficulties in some quarters not easy to surmount. He thought it undesirable that he should place his hon. Friends in a position of difficulty unless
 2195
 LORD HENLEY  observed, that there were several points in the measure which ought to be considered before they went into Committee, and dealt with it in detail. He hoped he should be able to suggest some amendments in its provisions, which, if adopted, would render it much more
 2197 2198 ex officio
 LORD HENLEY  said, he would propose an Amendment, the object of which was to introduce the principle of representation before taxation, and providing that the consent of the majority of the boards of guardians of the said county should be first signified in writing.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he could not support the Amendment of the noble Lord the Member for Northampton. Some of the guardians of a Poor Law union might belong to another county, and might in that case he called on to deal with a matter in which they had no concern. To the Amendment of the hon. Member for Hampshire (Mr. S. Booth) he was prepared to assent. The parishes concerned ought to have a voice in the question. If the majority of parishes objected to the formation of a district, the process ought to stop, though one parish ought not to stop the formation of a district. He should be best contented to have no Bill at all. The roads of the country were gradually improving under the present law. The efficiency of the Bill would all depend on whether they got good or bad surveyors.
 LORD HENLEY  said, he would withdraw his Amendment on the understanding that the principle for which he contended would be carried out by the Amendment of the hon. Member for Hampshire.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, there was an argument from precedent which seemed to him material. Under the existing law, six counties in South Wales were subject to a system very similar to that which it was now proposed to introduce into the rest of the country. They were divided into districts for highway purposes. The districts were formed of parishes or townships. The county road boards were called upon to divide each county into districts, and there was no option, and no appeal to the vestries or inhabitants. Being an inhabitant of one of those counties, he could state that the Act had given general satisfaction, and had tended to improve the highways without increasing the expense. By the 3rd section of the Bill, "parish" meant any place maintain-
 2208
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, they were composed principally of magistrates. There were few elected members. He was not speaking, however, of the constitution of the county boards, but of the compulsory power to form districts without reference to the opinion of the vestries.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the distinction was manifest. The Welsh Bill was a compulsory Bill, and the boards had simply to divide the counties into districts. The Bill before them was a permissive Bill, and the vestries ought to have a voice as to whether the discretion of the magistrates should be exercised.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the language of the Amendment could be easily altered, if necessary, when the Bill was reported; but it put in issue a great principle, whether the ratepayers should have a voice in the question of coming under the operation of the Bill, and he should cordially support it.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he should oppose the Amendment, as he did not see what the population of a district had to do with the extent of its roads.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he would admit that under the Poor Law the number of guardians varied, but there were no words in the Poor Law Amendment Act making it imperative upon the Commissioners to be governed by the population or acreage. The hon. Gentleman did not mention property, which was a point that might well be considered by the magistrates. A proportion in accordance with population alone would be an injustice towards small parishes, which would obtain no real representation.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that even I then, if the proportion was strictly observed, the small parishes would scarcely get any representation at all. He thought that the Bill was quite sufficient as it stood to effect the object it contemplated.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he thought the experience of the Poor Law Board was against making officers removable after short periods. He doubted whether an insecure tenure of office would be found a stimulus for the proper discharge of its duties. So long as the Board had the power of removal for due cause he could see no harm in electing the officers for an unlimited period.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that under the Poor Law Acts it was the practice that a member of a banking firm might be treasurer, but not the firm; and that it was the invariable practice to require good security, and not to give any salary.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he rose to move the addition of a proviso to the clause to meet the case of certain districts in Oxfordshire, called the Beechwood districts, some of which were rated to the highway rates while others were not. By strict law none of them were liable to be so rated, a decision having been given to that effect last century; but in some districts advantage had been taken of the decision, and in others it had not. It would produce a great disturbance if the proprietors of that description of property were not left to go on as they had been accustomed to do; and therefore he had drawn up his proviso. Some of these proprietors said they used the roads and were willing to pay for them. He believed that Oxfordshire and Buckinghamshire were the only counties in which the circumstances
 2214 "Provided that in any parish where, for a period of not less than seven years immediately preceding the passing of this Act, it has been the custom of the surveyor of highways for such parish to levy a highway rate in respect of property not subject by law to be assessed to poor rates, the monies payable in pursuance of the precept of the Highway Board shall not be paid by the overseers, but may be raised and paid by the waywarden of such parish out of a highway rate, to be assessed and levied in manner and in respect of the property in and in respect of which the same would have been assessed and levied if this Act had not passed."
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was satisfied, that if the waywardens were empowered to borrow, there would be no end to their extravagance, and they would become very unpopular with the ratepayers.
 MR. MOFFATT  urged, that the owners of steam shipping were somewhat hardly dealt with. He should ask the Committee to strike out the Amendment of the President of the Board of Trade, and revert to the original intention of the Bill. It was
 2221
 MR. HENLEY  said, that Lord Campbell's Act entailed a statutable liability upon shipowners of which they had no idea at the time, and it was proposed to mitigate it. It was mitigated in 1856, and it was now proposed to carry the mitigation further. All parties agreed that it was reasonable to do so. But the proposal of the President of the Board of Trade was to put an equal value upon all ships per ton, because they did not want bad ships at sea, forgetting that there were different classes of ships. It was clear that the large class of sailing ships and steam-ships had been well looked after, in contradistinction, not to the old and bad, but to the small and valuable ships. Steam-ships were worth more per ton, taking class for class, than sailing ships; but, instead of putting more liability on steam-ships and less on sailing ships, the President of the Board of Trade accommodated matters by a new system of measurement for steamships. There was no principle in what they wore about. Whether rough justice or rough injustice would be done he did not pretend to say, but he rather thought that rough injustice would be done to the humbler class of shipowners—men who owned coasting vessels of from 100 to 200 tons.
 MR. MOFFATT  complained that the right hon. Gentleman had departed from the proposal he formerly made to the shipowners to fix the rate at £15 per ton, allowing a deduction of a third for engine room.
 MR. MOFFATT  moved to add the following words:—
 "Nor shall such damages, in each case of loss of life or personal injury, exceed £100 for each first-class, £80 for each second-class, and £50 for each third-class passenger."
 MR. HENLEY  said, he wanted to know why a clerk of the Customs was to be at liberty to come into any record court in the kingdom, and prosecute in cases of misdemeanour under the Act, instead of a solicitor or barrister. He thought that the party under such circumstances would not have fair play afforded him. A mere clerk might do that which a professional man would not dare to do. He hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would let those prosecutions be conducted as they had hitherto been. The number of misdemeanours created by the Act was enormous, and it appeared to him that the power proposed to be given by the clause was monstrous, and contrary to the ordinary rules of justice.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought that the clause ought to be framed so as to give the magistrates an option whether they would act or not in cases of the kind. As the clause stood it was to be in the power of the Secretary of State to appoint the rota which was to try these cases.
 MR. MOFFATT  said, he would move the addition of the following clause, to follow Clause 52:—
 "Insurances effected against any or all of the events enumerated in the Section last preceding shall not be invalid by reason of the nature of the risk."
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  wished to caution the Committee against idly introducing a clause of the description pro posed, which would only have the effect of throwing doubt on the existing law.
 MR. HENLEY  suggested that the clause should be withdrawn, and that the Government should take the best advice between that time and the report whether the law was uncertain or not. He (Mr. Henley) had heard that the law upon the subject was at present doubtful.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he concurred with the opinion of the Solicitor General that there was no doubt in the world about the fact that the clause was uncalled for.
 LORD NAAS  said, he objected to that
 2230
 MR. LIDDELL  said, in the case of steamers carrying passengers it might be desirable that some limit should be fixed. But there were many steamers that never carried passengers at all, and it was hard that an absolute limit of £15 per ton should be fixed without allowing for the space for the engines. If a man made arrangements for expensive machinery, and allotted to it a sufficient space for its proper working, the practical effect of the Act would be to fine him for taking such precautions. He thanked the Government for the concessions which they had made in the case of sailing vessels, in reducing the liability from £15 to £8 per ton; but he thought they would do a grievous injustice if they exacted from the shipowner an amount of liability calculated on the gross tonnage of the ship, allowing nothing for the space occupied by the engines and machinery.
 MR. W. E. DUNCOMBE  said, he cordially approved the Amendment. It did not require the consent of a majority of parishes to be asked. It only gave power to a majority of parishes to object.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  replied, that as yet no sum of money had been paid to Captain Coles on account of his invention of the cupola shields; but it was intended to grant to him, on consideration of his giving up to Her Majesty's Government the sole use of his patent, both with respect to the Admiralty and also with respect to the War Office, a sum of £5,000; and further, that during the continuance of his patent, he should receive £100 for every shield or cupola which was made for the use of the public service, whether by the Admiralty or by the War Department.
 LORD HENRY SCOTT  said, he had given notice of a Resolution, as an Amendment, to the effect that legislation was inexpedient until the House was in possession of more accurate information on the subject of education in Scotland. He could not, therefore, but express his gratification at the course pursued by the learned Lord Advocate, which he thought would give satisfaction throughout Scotland, as the objections to the Bill were general in that part of the kingdom. It was condemned by the General Assembly, and by a Committee appointed to consider it. Only one county had petitioned in its favour, fourteen counties had petitioned against it, and the remainder wished a full inquiry. No one would more readily acquiesce in a complete investigation than himself; and if the Bill had been perse-
 2196
 MR. AYRTON  said, the real question for consideration was the mode of ascertaining the value of the ship. The principle hitherto adopted had been that the owner should be responsible to the full value of his ship. The Government did not intend to depart from that principle, but they endeavoured to find some rule by which the value could be ascertained. The measurement on the register was Simply the carrying power of the vessel, and not its actual capacity. In the case of steamers, the more the engine room the less would be the value of the ship according to the system recommended by his hon. and learned Friend. He thought that the true basis on which to proceed was the entire capacity of the ship. The real difficulty, however, was that the shipowner found himself responsible for the lives of his passengers. He took one passenger in the receipt of a large income— say £10,000, and another with £1,000 a year. They all paid the same passage money; but if any accident happened, the shipowner found himself an assurer of the life of each passenger, according to
 2220
 MR. AYRTON  observed, that the doubt arose from the possible want of interest in the person insuring, and that some declaratory enactment perhaps ought to be passed to prevent open insurances on the lives of persons in whom the insurers had no interest.
 MR. BLACK  said, he was quite sure that the public of Scotland would be much disappointed when they found that the Bill was withdrawn. The General Assembly of the Church of Scotland was against every liberal measure. When it was proposed to repeal the university tests they unanimously petitioned against it, and they were only acting in character when they opposed the Bill before the House.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, that his chief objection to the Bill was the additional districts it would create, which would necessitate a separate staff and additional machinery. No doubt an enlarged area was required, because the conflicting jurisdiction of small parishes prevented a uniform system of roads. He thought the administration of the high ways might be advantageously intrusted to boards of guardians, whose duties in many cases were very light. The main object to be secured was not great lines of road running parallel to the railways, but good serviceable roads leading from railway stations to the great centres of population. He did not see why the expense of maintaining the road should not come out of the poor rates.
 MAJOR CUMMING BRUCE  said, he could assure his right hon. Friend that the friends of the parochial system in Scot land courted every inquiry, and believed that the more it was inquired into the better it would be for them.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he had received a great many communications from his constituents, which showed that their objections to the Bill were strong, he believed almost universal, and entertained by persons of political opinions as various as those represented by the noble Lord the Member for Northampton (Lord Henley). The House would, perhaps, permit him, in his character of a representative, to lay before them the feeling of the county of Warwick in reference to this measure, so far as he was informed of them. His constituents felt that there was little need of any interference in the matter of highways. Nevertheless, if the House were of opinion that some legislative interference should take place, and that in some parts of the country the public roads were neglected, it was their conviction that all that was needed was the appointment of some officer who should have power to enforce the duty of repairing the roads incumbent on the parish. The law provided amply for the process by indictment. It further provided the means by which a combination of parishes in a particular district were enabled to improve the roads. The existing law, therefore, provided the requisite machinery for the improvement of the public highways. All that was needed was an additional motive power. Now, whether they considered the state of the roads or any nuisances which needed remedy in towns or districts, what did they find? Why, they found universally existing shyness on the part of individuals
 2200 2201
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the parishes of England did not wish to be placed under martial law in regard to roads, like those in Wales.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he considered that the point required grave discussion. A tenant took a farm on a calculation of the average rates, and he might, under the Bill, be assessed at three times the amount. The Bill, by suddenly defeating in that way the arrangements under which land had been taken, would inflict great injustice on tenants.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, in reply, that when last the hon. Gentleman called his attention to the subject, he had received two Memorials from the Covenanted Civil Servants in India. Since that time a third had been received, and he could assure the hon. Gentleman that the careful attention of himself and the Council of India would be directed to the subject.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he rose to order. He had always understood that when a Motion was made to discharge the order on a Bill a debate could not be raised upon it.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, he coincided with the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire in his objection to the principle involved in the clause.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, that he had no objection to the clause on principle, but he objected to its form, because it contained no apportionment of the £15 per ton— that was to say, it did not declare how much was to go where loss of life occurred, and how much where only loss of goods took place. There were no words in the clause which distributed the damage, and therefore the putting it into force would be attended with disputes and difficulties.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, that singular misconception had prevailed in the Committee on the whole subject, according to his view of the meaning of the words "registered tonnage."
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he agreed with the hon. Member for South Nottingham-shire (Mr. Barrow), that the Bill had been allowed to arrive at its present stage with but a small amount of discussion, considering the large interests involved. He was bound to say that he had heard from that part of the country to which he belonged opinions expressed of a diametrically opposite character regarding the merits of this Bill. In many cases the measure was viewed as a positive evil, whilst other persons declared that it was one which was much required. Now, that fact alone showed the difficulty of dealing with the subject. His two objections to the Bill were these: he thought that it had too much of a centralizing character, and that it trenched too much upon the control ex-
 2199
 MR. HUNT  said, he wished to ask how the county road boards in Wales were elected.
 MR. HUNT  observed, that the treasurer, clerk, and district surveyor were to be appointed for an indefinite period, subject to removal. The result would be that unless actual fraud were committed, no one would propose the removal of such officers. He thought some stimulus to active exertion should be given by making the appointments for a limited time, subject to re-election. He would move as an amendment that the officers be elected for three years, subject to removal.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he would then move the following addition to the clause:—
 "Provided always that no such final order shall be made, and all powers of the justices in that behalf shall cease and determine in cases where a
 2207
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, as there was a general wish that the Bill should pass, he did not wish to oppose any obstacles; but if it were to be a permissive Bill, he should prefer to the Amendment of which the noble Lord had given notice one which he had himself placed upon the paper, providing that the final order for the formation of a district should not be made if within forty days after the issuing of the provisional order, the vestries of a majority of the parishes proposed to be formed into such district should object to its formation.
 MR. THOMPSON  said, he thought that the arguments against the Bill were futile. He had always found that the ratepayers, where the roads were exceedingly bad, were the least conscious of their defects.
 MR. THOMPSON  was of opinion that the words "not being a banking firm." should be inserted.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  said, he understood that the Bill not only altered the mode of examining the assistant county surveyors, but transferred their appointment from the grand juries to the Lord Lieutenant. He hoped that part of the Bill 'would be expunged.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he would express a hope that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland would give a distinct assurance that he was prepared to adopt the suggestion made by the right hon. Member for Kerry, and withdraw that portion of the Bill to which he had raised objection.
 MR. BLAKE  said, he agreed with those who thought that great injustice would be inflicted upon owners of steam-ships if the clause were persevered with, and it would also be injurious to the public, because a premium would really be put upon the diminution of engine power on board steamers. The result of an insufficiency of engine power had been proved in the case of the Royal Charter.
 MR. BRISCOE  said, he could not see the least reason why good security should not be given on behalf of the ratepayers.
 MR. SPEAKER : Do I understand that the hon. Member for South Nottingham-shire intended to make a Motion?
 MR. SPEAKER  said, it was inconvenient that any lengthened debate should arise in such a case, but he would remind the hon. Member that there was a question before the House.
 MR. DODSON  said, if the hon. Gentleman looked to the 36th clause he would see that no magistrate was to act on a bench with regard to any matters in which he might have been concerned as a member of a highway board. The judicial and administrative functions were not conjoined; but, on the contrary, they were carefully kept distinct. Again, so far from the Bill promoting centralization, it appeared to him to be rather a Bill for increasing the powers of local self-government. At present the roads in a particular district were under the management of a surveyor, who was simply a ministerial officer, and the control over him was vested in the magistrates; while under the Bill the control was to be given to a board elected by the ratepayers of the district. In fact, it was a Bill to constitute, so far as roads were concerned, a local parliament; it gave increased powers to local bodies. The hon. Gentleman also said the law was quite perfect, and all that was wanted was to put it in force. Well, that was just the point where the present law broke down. Nobody did put it in force. As in other cases, what was everybody's business was nobody's. Doubtless, any patriotic individual might put the law into operation; but what would he have to do? He must summon the surveyor of highways. First of all he would have to go to the magistrates to get the summons; next he must go to their clerk; next he would have to appear on the day when the summons was made returnable; then the magistrates would go and view the road, or appoint some one to view it for them. Meanwhile the surveyor might have taken some steps to put the road into decent order; and then the complaining party, having given his time, would, perhaps, lose the costs also. As to indicting the parish, that was a most expensive business. Doubtless there existed a remedy, but the machinery for putting it in force was most difficult. What the Bill proposed was the substitution of machinery of a simple kind, by forming a board consisting of representatives elected by the ratepayers of different parishes, and giving each parish an
 2202
 MR. DODSON  said, that under the Poor Law banks were sometimes treasurers, but the requirement of security was the rule.
 MR. DODSON  said, that in the absence of the hon. Member for Macclesfield (Mr. Egerton) he would move the insertion of a clause giving power to Highway Boards to borrow money. There was a general feeling among the ratepayers in favour of the clause.
 MR. DODSON  said, he wished to move as an Amendment, the addition of the following words:—
 "Provided that before the Treasurer enters upon the duties of his office, the Board shall take sufficient security from him for the due performance of the duties of his office."
 MR. LAIRD  said, that the proposal made by the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade was made in a confidential conversation; it was not accepted by the representatives of the shipping interest; and he thought it ought not to be used upon the present occasion against the right hon. Gentleman. He hoped, however, that the right hon. Gentleman would not make the charge upon the gross tonnage, as he proposed to do.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he held that what the steam shipowners required was not exemption from liability, but that the liability should be a fair one. Take the Holyhead vessels: was there any analogy between them and the ordinary Cork carrying ships, and was it fair to make one of those vessels, one half of which was necessarily engine room, liable to the same extent as the others? The result of the right hon. Gentleman's proposal would be to induce the owners of these packets to reduce the motive power, in order to reduce the engine room chargeable as tonnage, and the public would suffer in proportion.
 MR. ROGERS  said, he thought that when officers were removed a notice ought to be given of the intention to appoint fresh officers, in order to prevent even the appearance of a job. He would therefore propose, as an Amendment, that in every case of a fresh appointment a week's notice should be given by publication upon the church doors throughout the district.
 MR. ROGERS  said, he should support the proviso, which would extend to his county (Cornwall), where there were copper and other mines, some of which were assessed to highway rate, while others enjoyed exemption.
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  said, he had
 2205
 MR. WALTER  said, that whether the principle for which the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) contended was desirable or not, the Amendment did not assert it. So far from asserting it, it was calculated to mislead. In the part of the country in which he lived, a district would be composed of two or three large parishes and a considerable number of small parishes. His belief was, that the large parishes would
 2209
 MR. J. C. EWART  said, he concurred in the opinion that a positive premium would be offered to give as little steam power as possible. He also thought that the clause would inflict gross injustice, and he therefore hoped the Committee would support the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Belfast.
 MR. STANILAND  observed, that the parishes proposed to be included in a union must take action, and acreage gene rally bore a proportion to mileage. The Amendment appeared to be a valuable one, and he trusted the Committee would assent to it.
 MR. BASS  said, he wished to move the insertion of a clause prohibiting the cut ting of turf on the sides of highways.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he did not think it expedient to enter into a discussion upon education at that time, but he rose to express his opinion that the Lord Advocate had taken the wisest and best course in withdrawing this Bill. He was sure, that if the right hon. and learned Gentleman would only propose a measure to extend the parochial system, it would meet with support from both sides of the House.
 MR. HUMBERSTON  said, he wished to simplify the proceedings in cases where roads were out of repair. He thought there should be only one summons instead of two, and that the justices should be allowed, if they chose, to hear and determine the case when it first came before them. He moved an Amendment to that effect.
 MR. COLLIER  said, the question was, upon what principle would they make a distinction between steamships and sailing vessels? The proposal of the President of the Board of Trade offered a premium to shipowners to diminish the engine room, and he thought the proposal of the hon. and learned Member for Belfast (Sir H.
 2222
 MR. ALCOCK  said, he rose to thank the Government for having introduced the Bill, as he could state several instances which had come under his personal observation to show that the present system was very inadequate and most unsatisfactory. Although justices had power to unite parishes when invited to do so, it rarely happened that such invitations were addressed to them. In a particular area, with which he was familiar, there were six separate vestries, surveyors, and ratings, and the cost of maintaining twenty-eight miles of road exceeded £36 a mile. In another parish quite close to it, of about equal extent, there was one united administration, and the roads were kept in as good, if not better, order for £12 a mile.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  suggested the insertion in the Amendment of
 2212
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  wished to ask, whether the hon. Gentleman meant that if one parish had 1,100 and another 1,000 acres, the former should have two waywardens and the latter only one?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  assented to the Amendment.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  assented to the addition of the words.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the Amendment on Clause 22 would be brought up on the Report.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the object of the Amendment was, that in case of injury to life, or personal injury, the tonnage of a ship which was to regulate the liability in damages, limited by the old Act at a  maximum
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he differed from the hon. and learned Gentleman in the construction he had placed upon the Report of the Committee. If the Committee meant the registered tonnage only, they would have said so; but the terms used were the "gross registered tonnage." Why was the word "gross" used, except as embodying a meaning different to that of "net"? Did any one suppose that a steamer was not worth more than £8 a ton on her gross tonnage, though that was the proposed limit of liability? The proposal made in the Bill reduced the liability below the limit fixed by the Committee; but the Amendment would restrict that liability further, and to an extent which was not consistent with the public interest. They were asked to take the registered tonnage of steam-ships, though the engines occupied perhaps half the room, and whilst in the case of sailing ships the liability was £8 a ton upon the whole of the tonnage of the ship.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the clause set up no new liability for shipowners. It should be borne in mind that there was a third party, the general public, whose; interest they were also bound to consider. The liability could only arise in cases of culpable fault on the part of those who actually did the damage; in that case the owners were, in accordance with the general law of the country, liable for the acts of their servants. The Bill did, to a great extent, limit the liability of shipowners. It was a question of degree; many persons objected to any limitation at all. The principle of unlimited liability had been broken in upon, and the Government had now made a further reduction in the amount of it; but, on the whole, he thought they had gone as far as they ought to in justice to the public. By placing the particular amount on the tonnage of the ship they did away with all differences between the liability of a valuable ship and of a ship of comparatively small value, and they also carried out the unanimous recommendation of the Committee.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  observed, that the observations of the hon. and learned Gentleman proceeded upon the principle that they were increasing liability, which was not the case. By the common law the liability for damage was to be measured by the loss and injury sustained. They ought to be cautious in limiting liability, because it was from incurring liability that persons were cautious, and owners took care to put their vessels in the charge of vigilant and careful persons. With regard to the  Scotia 2219
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he would desire hon. Members to recollect that the question related not merely to the amount of registered tonnage, but to the pecuniary rate per ton. The Committee recommended an absolute rate of £15 per ton; but while retaining that sum where life was in question, he had reduced it to £8 for goods.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that he did not know by what means the hon. Member had arrived at his estimate of the value of the life of first-class passengers, and at the conclusion that it never would be worth more than £100 in any case. He could not agree to any such proposal; but he must leave damages to be assessed by juries according to the laws of the country, without laying down any arbitrary rule.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he proposed to retain the clause. It was a mere question of saving a little to the public without diminishing the efficiency with which proceedings under the Act would be carried on.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he confessed he had no particular predilection for the clause, but it was intended by it only to enact what had been enacted in the Customs Consolidation Act. He would not, however, press the clause.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he proposed to leave out the 47th clause, and to insert another in. its stead, to give summary jurisdiction to two justices of the peace in. salvage cases, and to prevent Unnecessary appeals and litigation.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he thought the Home Secretary would not appoint a justice without his consent. But he would confer with his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State; and if a few words could be added to effect the purpose, it should be done, and the amended clause brought up on the Report.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he would
 2229
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, his objection to the clause was, that all the risks referred to were provided for by the law as it stood.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he feared it would be considered very vexatious to the merchant service if no ship of any kind should be permitted to purchase cables unless marked with a proof mark. But, at any rate, before they were pre vented from so doing, machinery ought to
 2228
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that the Committee having agreed to the rate of £8 per ton, he could not assent to reducing the amount of the tonnage chargeable. The existing liability of the  Scotia
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  complained of the uncertainty which prevailed as to the hour when Irish business would come on.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he would withdraw has Motion.
 MR. BARROW  said, that the three rates of 10 d
 MR. BARROW  said, it was only fair
 2210
 MR. BARROW  complained that the clause contained a most extraordinary power over the occupiers of land. In point of fact the Bill gave the board of way-wardens power to tax the parish to the extent of 2 s d 2213 d d d
 MR. BARROW  said his object was, that the justices might see that the number of waywardens should be in some measure proportioned to the extent and population of the district.
 MR. BARROW  observed that it was the practice under the Poor Law to allow more guardians in populous districts than in parishes of less magnitude.
 MR. BARROW  said, there were certain townships in which endowments existed for the maintenance of the roads. It would be manifestly unjust that a town hip of that kind should be united with an adjacent one in which there was no such endowment. He should therefore move, that the last proviso of the clause be omitted.
 MR. BARROW  said, he was willing to add the word "property" to his Amendment.
 MR. BARROW  said, he believed the roads in his district to be as good as the roads in any part of England. There was not one over which a light four-wheeled carriage could not be driven without danger. In Newark, and some by-lanes in Lincolnshire, perhaps, there might be some such roads as his hon. Friend had described; but he (Mr. Barrow) had never seen any roads made of broken tiles.
 MR. BARROW  observed, that there were a number of provisions in the Bill of which he could not approve. He would not, however, oppose the Motion, although he thought that the measure had not received the amount of discussion which its importance to the ratepayers required.
 MR. BARROW : No, Sir.
 MR. BARROW  remarked that the clause gave power to the magistrates at Quarter Sessions and no power to the ratepayers. It would deprive parishes of any sort of representation, and would be a compulsory Bill so far as the landowners and ratepayers were concerned. He did not think the state of the roads required any such interference.
 MR. DEEDES  said, the observation of his hon. Friend commended the Bill to his approval, for he objected to permissive legislation altogether. He hoped the Committee would steer of mixing up boards of guardians with districts. Boards of guardians had enough to do in carrying on the business intrusted to them, and ought not to have fresh administrations placed in their hands. How his hon. Friend could stand up and intimate that the roads in his part of the country did not require supervision and improvement was surprising. He had recently an opportunity of seeing some of those roads, and never had he met with any carried on in a manner so utterly subversive of all principle of effecting good, and confirming every notion that could be enter-
 2206
 MR. DEEDES  said, he would advise the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary to withdraw the Bill if the Amendment were agreed to, because the effect would be to make the measure inoperative.
 MR. DEEDES  inquired whether in cases where banks were the treasurers, security would be required?
 MR. DEEDES  said, that if the clause were agreed to, it ought to be made to go further, and prevent horses being turned out and eating the turf.
 MR. DEEDES  said, he thought the clause was necessary, but he would suggest that the Boards should not be empowered to borrow a sum exceeding the gross amount that might be levied in any parish for a period of three years.
 MR. DEEDES  thought the omission of the clause would lead to much practical inconvenience.
 MR. MITFORD  said, he would suggest that the average of the expenditure during the last three preceding years, instead of the last year only, should be the basis of the calculations as to the proportion which each parish should contribute to the district fund. He moved an Amendment accordingly.
 MR. MITFORD  said, he would move to insert words providing that for the space of seven clear days immediately following the day to which they are made up, the accounts shall be open at the office of the clerk, or in some convenient place for the inspection of the ratepayers.
 MAJOR WINDSOR PARKER  proposed the omission of paragraph 7, thinking it unreasonable to call on farmers to pay for the carting of materials, when they had teams and waggons of their own.
 MAJOR WINDSOR PARKER  said, the hon. Member for Sussex (Mr. Dodson) had stated that the roads were generally bad, and yet that no one could be found to complain of them; but, surely, if the roads were in such a wretched condition throughout the kingdom as to jeopardize people's necks, the community would rise to a man to take advantage of the existing law, which, it was said, provided an ample remedy. He held it to be unreasonable and unjust to require any class of people to pay others for performing a duty which they themselves were able and willing to perform. Look to the position of the farmers. They had teams and servants; many of them had conveniently situated stone-pits or gravel-pits; and they were ready and willing to perform the repairs which the roads in their localities required. Under the Bill, however, they would be called on to appear at the board sitting in a remote town, where those local advantages would be lost sight of. Again, in villages there would always be found poor men who, although not able-bodied, might be advantageously employed in breaking stones, repairing the roads, and generally keeping them in order. The Bill would have the effect of depriving them of that employment. Again, the village bricklayer and carpenter were occasionally employed in doing slight repairs to bridges, or in repairing or erecting posts and rails. That occasional employment they would lose under the operation of the Bill; and if they were thus broken up for want of sufficient employment, what would persons in the country do for the intelligent bricklayer and carpenter who repaired their dwellings, their barns and stables, and their farming implements? He should go into the lobby with the hon. Member for South Nottinghamshire if he divided the House.
 MR. VANSITTART  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether his attention has been directed to the Memorials of Her Majesty's Covenanted Civil Servants which have been forwarded to him and laid upon the table of the House?
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, If any money has been paid to Captain Coles for his claim for the invention of the Cupola Iron Tower for ships?
 SIR BALDWIN LEIGHTON  said, that great difficulty was found in inducing farmers to draw stone. It was necessary that the operation should be performed while the roads were dry, and at such times the farmers had work enough of their own for their teams to do.
 SIR BALDWIN LEIGHTON  supported the Amendment.
 SIR BALDWIN LEIGHTON  said, he thought, that if they allowed the parishes to have much voice in. the matter, there would be hardly any use in passing the Bill. Seeing how wisely the Poor Law Commissioners had exercised the powers intrusted to them, there was no reason why the magistrates, who were usually the largest ratepayers, should not be intrusted with these powers as to the roads.
 SIR BROOK BRIDGES  said, he doubted whether the turf belonged to the highways at all.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, it was admitted that the liability of the shipowners ought to be limited, and it seemed to him a reasonable principle to regulate the liability according to the value of the ship. The difference between sailing ships and steam-vessels was obvious. In the one case the whole space was available for freight, while in the other a considerable portion was occupied by the machinery. It was for the interest of the public that the machinery of steam-vessels should be of adequate power, and therefore he hoped the Amendment would be agreed to.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  then brought up an additional clause, which he stated had already received the approval of the Committee, but by some mistake had not been printed with the others. The clause was one containing a provision "for the discontinuance of the maintenance of unnecessary highways."
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he must object to the clause, which had been rejected by the Select Committee.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had no objection to the clause, but it did not come within the scope of the Bill. It was not intended to increase the power of Highway Boards.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he thought the terms of the proviso would meet the necessities of the case, and he had no objection to its insertion.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the clause fixed the same  maximum maximum d
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he thought the treasurers should give some security.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the clause as framed was carefully considered by the Committee, who were of opinion that every precaution should be taken against a hasty decision which would affect the liability of the parish.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he thought that the Amendment would very much impair the efficiency of the Bill. If there were ten parishes in the district, each parish would have an equal voice, but one parish might have a population of 20,000, and another a population of only 500—one parish might have twenty miles of road, and another not half a mile. Being unequal in extent, population, and length of roads, the minority in interest might overrule the wishes of the real majority, simply because they were more numerous.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he would ask the right hon. Gentleman whether, looking to the fact that many of these townships had no vestries, he thought the Amendment would work.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the words proposed to be omitted formed no part of the original Bill, but had been adopted in the Select Committee to which the Bill had been referred, by nine to three. Though he had supported the proposition in the Select Committee, he thought great weight was due to the objection of the hon. Gentleman, and that the Bill would be better without the latter part of the proviso.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the population and acreage of the parishes would, as a matter of course, be taken into account in appointing waywardens; but he thought the vagueness of the Amendment would be likely to perplex the justices in fixing the number to be appointed.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he agreed that there should be some interval between the removal and the new appointment. He would look into the practice in similar cases under the Poor Law, with a view to consider whether a similar provision could not be introduced into the Bill before the Committee, and would communicate with the hon. Gentleman.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  pointed out that it would be very inconvenient to require the consent of the boards of guardians of the whole county, whereas these applications might be made in respect of particular portions of the county only.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had not understood the hon. Member for Nottingham to conclude with any Motion; he believed the debate, as far as it had proceeded, was intended merely as a preliminary discussion. In answer to the hon. Member for Norfolk, he felt bound to remind the House that, after full consideration, the principle of the Bill had been affirmed by a large majority, that the substance of the measure had been more than once before the House and before Select Committees, and that really very little that was novel could now be said either for or against the Bill. The objection to it on the ground of centralization was revived, and its machinery had been
 2203
 SIR HENRY STRACEY  said, that the jurisdiction of the two justices had been found to work well, and he did not expect more appeals than formerly under this clause.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  thought that the right hon. Gentleman had completely changed his ground. He first said that he supported the recommendation of the Committee, and then departed from it. He believed the shipping interest preferred the proposition of the Committee without the right hon. Gentleman's Amendment.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he would propose his Amendment.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  observed, that the right hon. Gentleman had several times stated that the Report of the Committee of 1860 was in favour of the pro-
 2223 "At present the law inflicts a heavier punishment upon the owner of the vessel best adapted to provide (from her superior construction) for the safety of passengers; and the responsibility of the owner actually increases with the increased means he employs for the health, safety, and comfort of those who embark in his vessel. Your Committee are therefore of opinion that an absolute sum of £15 per ton gross register—[that meant registered tonnage without deduction]— should be established as the definite value of the ship, and that all consideration of freight should be excluded."
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he joined issue with the right hon. Gentleman as to
 2224
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he was astonished at the principle on which the right hon. Gentleman argued the question. The case of steam-tugs was exceptional. They were all engine room, and furnished no analogy for the principle when applied to passenger and cargo steam-ships. He simply asked the Committee to adhere to the principle laid down in the Act of 1853. All agreed that a limit of liability should be fixed, and, in his opinion, it was properly determined in the Act to which he referred. There was no connection between railways and steam-vessels in the present instance.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, as to the likelihood of fraud to which the right hon. Gentleman referred, he did not see how that could be the case, as it was the Government that fixed the registered tonnage, and not the owners. The proposal of the Government appeared to be a complete departure from the basis of the Act of 1853, which provided that the  maximum 2218 Scotia
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, that in the Act of 1853 the words "sea-going ships" were used in reference to the subject-matter of the clause. He did not understand why the right hon. Gentleman should propose to leave out these words, and to make a distinction between steamers and sailing vessels.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he wished to move the following clause: —
 "That on and after the 1st day of January, 1863, all chain-cables, and anchors bought or sold for use on board British ships registered in the United Kingdom, shall be impressed with an official proof-mark as evidence of having been subjected to an authorized proof equal to the tensile strain applied by Admiralty regulations to all cables and anchors used in the Royal Navy; the Board of Trade to be empowered to make such rules and regulations thereon as may from time to time appear necessary to insure the general efficiency of ships' ground-takle; to grant licences to public and corporate bodies; to apply the required test and authorized proof to all such cables and anchors; to impress a proof mark, and to give proof certificates thereof for production when required."
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he was willing to withdraw the clause for the present, but, at the same time, he would state his intention of submitting it again in an amended form upon the bringing up of the report.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, in his district of Sussex the board of guardians had very little to do. That representation and taxation should go together they were all agreed; and if it was not advisable to mix up the boards of guardians, the power of assenting to the formation of districts might be given to the majority of the parish vestries. He believed the Bill, as at present framed, would not work. It might be necessary in the north of England, but in other parts of the country the law was sufficient as it stood.
 SIR MATTHEW RIDLEY  said, there was so much conflict of opinion on the subject, that he did not believe the Government or the House of Commons would succeed in passing any Highway Bill which would be satisfactory to the counties. Though not an ardent admirer of the Bill, there were many parts of it which met his approval; and he trusted "it would go through Committee and then be submitted to the country, where its merits and defects would have fair trial at the hands alike of the magistrates and the ratepayers.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he would strike out the objectionable clause.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, the simple object of the Bill was to alter the existing system of examining county surveyors. He would take care that the clause complained of by his hon. Friend should be amended.
 MR. CAVE  proposed the following Amendment:—In p. 24, line 26, to leave out from "due" to "and" inline 27. Line 28, after "thereof" to insert "or of a release of freight from the shipowner." He said there were three parties in the transaction—the shipowner, the owner of the goods, and the wharfowner. The shipowner kept a stop on the goods till the owner paid the freight. He then gave the owner a receipt, which he kept. He also gave him a release, which he delivered to the wharfowner, and thus got his goods. The document given to the wharfowner was not the copy of the release, but the release itself. This Amendment was simply to make the clause consistent with the usual practice.
 MR. CAVE  proposed the following Amendment:—In p. 24, line 32, at end, to insert "without prejudice to any other remedy which the shipowner may have for the recovery of his freight." He said the shipowners had expressed alarm lest there might be collusion between the wharfowner and the owner of the goods, and that they might have as much difficulty in getting the money from the former as the latter. In London the shipowner was protected by the Sufferance Wharves Act, by which he could insist upon the freight being paid into the bank, but these words were desired by the shipowners in the outports.
 MR. HUTT  said, that as a Member of the Select Committee which sat upon the subject, he wished to remind the hon. Member that the Committee had been very unwilling to recommend any compulsory measures. He could only say that the information which reached him with regard to the intentions of the Committee of Lloyd's differed very much from that which had been received by the hon. Member.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, the insertion of the clause would prevent the adoption of the Bill in many parishes.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he could not understand the great tenderness which hon. Gentlemen seemed to feel for steam-ships causing damage to other ships which they met. If he were not officially connected with his right hon. Friend, but were exercising an independent judgment on his proposal, he should say that that proposal failed in this, that the true principle which ought to be applied to damage done by steam-vessels or any other instruments conducted by man must be the value of the damage done—not the quality or the value of the instrument causing it. If there was any fault in the proposal of his right hon. Friend, it was that it went too far in mitigation of the liability of steam-ships for damage, and he hoped that the House would not do anything so manifestly unjust as still further to limit their responsibility.
 LORD STANLEY  said, he rose to second the Motion. His hon. and learned Friend had gone so fully into the question that he should delay the House but for two or three minutes in adding a few remarks to the observations already made. He thought it would be evident to any one who had looked into the question, that there were only three alternatives open to the Legislature when dealing with it. One was to ignore altogether the claim of the inventor to receive a patent or legislative protection for his invention—to throw open inventions as soon as they were made, and to leave the inventor to obtain his reward simply from being first in the field, and from such secrecy as he might be able to maintain as to the operations he was carrying on. The next alternative was to grant, as at present, patents for a limited number of years, after an inquiry before some tribunal that might be considered competent, that tribunal to have the right to pronounce finally and decisively whether the inven-
 43 44 45 46
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the question raised by his hon. and learned Friend and the noble Lord was one which would be of importance in any country, but which was of especial importance in a country like England, where manufacturing industry was so largely developed and the inventive genius of the people was so great. Ton years had elapsed since the last Patent Act was passed; and as considerable diversity of opinion existed upon the subject, the Government were of opinion that a fair case had been made out for inquiry, and it was to be hoped that the result of the inquiry would be such as to render the future working of the law entirely satisfactory. His hon. and learned Friend said very truly that it was matter of just complaint that recourse was had to the machinery of the Patent Law, in too many cases for the purpose of obtaining protection for comparatively trivial inventions. Inquiry might be made as to the best remedy for this evil, At the same
 47 48
 MR. MONTAGUE SMITH  said, that he was glad to find that his hon. and learned Friend was willing to assent to the appointment of the Commission. He considered that its labours would be well employed if the only inquiry which it instituted was into the mode of trying patent cases. He had had some experience of juries in patent cases; and, with all the respect for that tribunal, he thought it was utterly inadequate to the task of deciding in a great number of them. Juries might be competent to deal with easy cases, but not with those that were difficult and complicated. As science progressed, every improvement was a stop in advance of what had been done before; the cases became more complicated, and it was very difficult for twelve men taken at random as a jury to decide between the different scientific witnesses, and to understand the intricate models that were often produced in court. A present learned judge had assured him, that when practising in Chancery, it once took him a week to understand the model of a lace-machine, that he might be able to explain it to the Court. They could not expect a satisfactory decision from a jury in cases involving novelties in intricate machinery, when they saw the models of machines for the first lime on the floor of the court, and had no opportunity of mastering their details, even if they had the capacity from previous education to do so. He thought the time had arrived when, for the trial of difficult cases, some tribunal should be created better adapted for deciding them than the juries at present selected. He thought, also, though the judicial staff of the country might be sufficient for its ordinary wants, if patent cases were left to be tried at the ordinary sittings and assizes, it would be impossible for the judges to get through all the business. It would be impossible to get through the heavy mercantile cases that arose in London, if the jurors summoned had to try patent cases that might take a week or more to dispose of. In the
 49 v
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he hoped that the hon. Gentleman would not think he was treating him with any want of respect, when he stated that it was not his intention to follow him through the several topics of his speech. The hon. Gentleman's proposition was, that a new class of Estimates should be created by the executive Government and laid before the House. There were already four classes of Estimates, one for each branch of the War Service, one for the Revenue Departments, and one for the Civil Service. His hon. Friend proposed that a class should be constituted, to consist of "new works," which were now distributed among the other classes; but he had not gathered from his hon. Friend's Resolution or from his speech whether in the new class were to be included additions to existing works. Would an addition to a barrack be considered a new work?
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : A considerable addition?—then a small addition would not, in his opinion, be a new work. The hon. Gentleman would see that a very nice question would at once arise as to the extent of the addition which was to constitute a new work. But the hon. Gentleman overlooked another inconvenience that would arise. The new works, according to his meaning of them, would be of a very limited extent. In the fourth class of the Army Estimates the Votes were set out in great detail, and, with few exceptions, the new works mentioned therein were works which had previously received the sanction of Parliament by a vote of money. Now, what information could the hon. Member ask for more than was furnished in those details? The only works really new in these Estimates were to be found under the head of Bermuda, the total estimate of which was £5,000. Supposing that Vote were put in a fifth class, what advantage would the House derive from such an arrangement? That Vote was connected with other Votes, for Gibraltar and other fortified places in our Colonies. Now, if that particular Vote for new works were relegated to a fifth class of Estimates, the House would be deprived of that information which was derived from a comparison
 56
 MR. H. BERKELEY : Sir, I answer your summons, and rise to ask leave to bring in a Bill to cause the votes of Parliamentary electors to be taken by way of ballot. It strikes me very forcibly that the arguments I have hitherto used are entirely unanswered. I shall, therefore, leave the question in your hands.
 MR. SERJEANT PIGOTT  said, he was much obliged to his hon. Friend for the explanation he had given. He would admit that full liberty ought to be given for the religious instruction of Roman Catholic prisoners. His only fear was that the Bill involved a proposal for an additional grant of money from the public funds.
 MR. SERJEANT PIGOTT  said, he thought that some explanation of the provisions of the Bill ought to be given.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought that some limit should be named, such as that the expense should not be greater in these institutions than in the workhouse, for the guardians would take no care except in reference to money which came out of their own pockets.
 MR. SOTHERON-ESTCOURT  said, the children to which the Bill applied were principally orphans, and there was little reason to fear the boards of guardians would incur undue expense on their account.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he had not the same confidence in boards of guardians, and preferred that some check should be imposed upon them. The clause extended to other children besides orphans, and would give an advantage to parents whose children were supported by the parish over those whose children were supported by industry.
 MR. SOTHERON-ESTCOURT  said, that if the limitation was mentioned, in all likelihood it would be adopted in almost every case; whereas, if left open, he thought the guardians, in a matter of expenditure, might fairly be trusted.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that guardians of the poor would have under the Bill power to send "children thereinafter described" to certain schools. He thought that the clause should define the class of children. He would also suggest that some words should be inserted which would meet the expense to be incurred in their education and maintenance.
 MR. HENLEY  suggested that children, instead of being kept at school till sixteen years of age, should be sent out as apprentices at fourteen. He considered it absurd that children educated in workhouse schools at the expense of other people, should he kept there after other children in the same rank of life were sent out into the world to get their own living.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he proposed to amend the clause by a provision under which each Commissioner was to receive a salary not exceeding £350 per annum.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, it would be impossible to accede to the suggestion.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  stated, that the Bill of the last Session proposed that the boundaries should be determined by a judicial process; but fishery proprietors having represented to the Government that that would be too expensive a process, and that the Commissioners ought to fix the boundaries, the Government had adopted their suggestion. The boundaries would be fixed, not arbitrarily, but upon scientific principles.
 MR. E. ELLICE (Kilmarnock)  said, the unanimous opinion of several fishery proprietors with whom he had communicated was in favour of the clause.
 LORD NAAS  said, he thought it very inexpedient to close the fisheries at a late hour of the night. The effect would be that a great deal of poaching would go on. He recommended the extension of the close-time till six o'clock in the morning.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he did not propose to close the time for fishing at two o'clock in the morning. He intended to leave that question open to the Commissioners for each particular river.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that last year the weekly close-time was fixed as the hon. Baronet proposed. But there was a very strong opinion that the periods were too arbitrary. He was not ready to depart from the provision of the Bill, whereby it was left to the Commissioners to say—taking into consideration the peculiarities of each river—when the period should commence and when it should terminate.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he thought it would be hard that such persons should be deprived of their right.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, chartered rights, or rights which rested on immemorial usage, were saved. It was quite out of the question to have one law applicable to one side of the Solway and another law to the other side.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  then proposed an additional clause, providing that the River Tay should continue to be governed by the special Act, provided that the close-hours from twelve on Saturday
 75
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  contended that it was unjust to deprive these people of their property in the fishery without giving compensation.
 MR. LEVESON GOWER  said, he could not but express his regret at the very limited field of inquiry upon which the Commission was to enter. Some disappointment would be experienced by the public at finding that the policy, as well as the operation of the present law, was not to be a subject of inquiry. In 1851 men who were most competent to pronounce a sound judgment expressed their opinion that patents practically did more harm than good to inventors as well as to the public; and, although some surprise was excited at the time, it was an opinion which had year by year become more and more general. It was very desirable that the doubts which the weight of these opinions had necessarily created should be set at rest, and he really did not see how
 50
 MR. AYRTON  said, he concurred in the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Henley). The Education Commissioners had possessed the public mind with the idea that the workhouse schools were the worst in the country, whereas they were really the best.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, the Motion which he had the honour to submit was one so very similar to that which had just been decided, as to make it unnecessary for him to take up the time of the House by advancing any arguments in its support. He would therefore content himself by simply moving for leave to bring in a Bill to allow the votes of municipal electors to be taken by way of ballot in all places where the town council should so think fit.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  seconded the Motion.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, the Pool-Law Board had no reason to be dissatisfied with the present provision made for educating pauper children, which was, in fact, the bright part of the Poor Law system. That provision was liberal: as an experiment it had been followed by great results, and what was most striking about it was, that the improvement thus effected was progressive. An opposite opinion, however, pervaded the community, and the Bill proceeded on the assumption that the workhouse schools were attended with positive evil. He was inclined to think the measure would prove a dead letter, though some persons of experience were confident it would operate beneficially. As it stood, the Bill was, he believed, a perfectly innocent one, and he was not therefore prepared to oppose it. In the Bill before the Committee, there was a provision that the guardians should not contract with a school unless it had previously been examined and certified by the Pool-Law Board. As the system about to be adopted was an experiment, it might be advisable to adopt the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Henley), and limit the expense.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, the power given to the guardians by the clause was merely discretionary; and at present they had a similar power in respect of keeping children in the workhouse up to the age of sixteen. He was not, however, adverse to the Amendment of the clause, if it could thereby be rendered more effective.
 MR. PULLER  said, he agreed with the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire, that as a general rule it was not desirable to keep children in workhouses after the age of fourteen, but there were exceptional cases; and if there was a discretionary power in respect to keeping them in workhouses up to sixteen, it would be well to allow the same discretion in the case of the schools. It might meet the right hon. Gentleman's view to leave out the words referring to age.
 MR. MURE  said, he should oppose the clause, which would interfere with vested rights to an extent never proposed by any previous measure.
 MR. D. ROBERTSON  said, he did not sec why the hours for the Tay should he different from the rest of Scotland.
 MR. D. ROBERTSON  said, that he had given notice of an Amendment on the same point, and the two might be discussed together. He proposed to introduce the following words:—"That the thirty-six hours of weekly close-time proposed by the Bill shall be from two o'clock p.m. on Saturday till two o'clock a.m. on the following Monday morning."
 MR. D. ROBERTSON  moved to strike out the words "or if such fishery be not valued on the valuation roll of half a mile of frontage to the river with the right of salmon fishing."
 LORD FERMOY  seconded the Motion.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, By what authority the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, having regard to the views of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners and the provisions of the 116th section of the Act of the 3 & 4  Will
 MR. LYALL  said, he was in favour of giving the guardians the discretionary power provided by the clause.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he was willing to withdraw the words to which exception, had been taken, and should not have inserted them if hon. Members had communicated their objections to him privately. He must, however, state that he had not only obtained the consent of the right hon. Chief Secretary, but that, so far from wishing to offend Roman Catholics, he had consulted several hon. Gentlemen of that religion before moving for the Return.
 69
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he would advise the hon. Member to postpone legislation for the present. Thirty thousand pounds a year were already appropriated to Roman Catholic purposes; and though it was painful to him to have to make further efforts to inform the House on the subject, he thought they ought to ascertain what system, doctrines, discipline, and laws the grant of that money to Roman Catholics tended to disseminate. It was a mistake to regard it as a question of
 63
 MR. WHALLEY , in moving for Returns connected with the course of education at Maynooth, said, he had obtained the consent of the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary for Ireland to his Motion, as well as that of hon. Gentlemen who usually took a prominent part on the question on the opposite side of the House. He therefore believed that the Returns would have been granted, as a matter of course; but as he found that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Limerick was about to oppose the Motion, he was compelled to make a short statement. The details which he now sought to obtain were called for under the terms of the Motion of last year; but, at the suggestion of the then Chief Secretary for Ireland, an alteration having been made to meet the wishes of the authorities of the college, they took advantage of that circumstance and kept back the most material portion of the information, alleging that there was no record kept of the subsequent destination of the students on leaving the college. But in the Report of the Commissioners of 1853 it was recommended that a record of that very nature should be kept, and it was stated that there would be no difficulty in obtaining the information. The object of his Motion, therefore, was to supply the omission. He denied that he had ever used violent language against the Roman Catholic population. All he had maintained was, that the priests who left Maynooth, and were scattered over the world, preached doctrines antagonistic to the intentions with which Maynooth was endowed. The return would enable him to prove the particular teaching at Maynooth and other Roman Catholic seminaries.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, the statement of the right hon. Baronet would imply that he (Mr. Whalley) had had no communication with him. Would the right hon. Baronet say that?
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he had desired to make an explanation in order to make the question which he was about to ask
 30
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he rose to move for a Return of the names, ages, and number of Students attending the College of Maynooth on the 31st day of August, 1844 (being the end of the academical year); the names and number who have entered each year from that time till the 31st day of August, 1861, with the age of each Student at entering; the names and number who have left college during that period who have not completed their course of education, with the date and cause of leaving, and the classes which they have respectively attended.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he had not anticipated that the right hon. Gentleman would have made any objection to the Return being granted, and was about to enter further into the question, when—
 MR. WEMYSS  said, he hoped the hon. Member would not withdraw the Amendment.
 MR. WEMYSS  proposed to alter the annual close-time from 180 days to 150 days. By so doing they would assimilate the Act in that respect to the Irish Fisheries Act.
 MR. BRIGHT : I understand the hon. Gentleman has, in accordance with one of our rules, moved the House into Committee for the purpose of asking leave to introduce a Bill, which is supposed, in some degree, to refer to the subject of religion. I am not aware that the hon. Gentleman proposes to ask the House to vote any sum of money in addition to what may be already granted by Parliament for Catholic priests or Catholic instruction. The hon. Gentleman's object appears to me very proper, and one which need not create much alarm here or elsewhere. We know there are about six millions of persons in the United Kingdom who are in communion with the Roman Catholic Church. They are called upon to pay taxes; they are subjected to the control of the laws; they form an important element in the population and power of the United Kingdom. The hon. Gentleman does not ask anything for them which Parliament does not constantly and willingly grant for the rest of the population. That being the case, I cannot understand the wisdom, patriotism, generosity, or Christianity of any Member of this House who seizes an opportunity like this to make a violent and abusive attack directed generally against
 64
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that looking to the character of the Bill, he thought it ought to be introduced in Committee of the Whole House.
 MR. SPEAKER : Mr. Henry Berkeley,
 MR. SPEAKER  informed the hon. Gentleman that it was not open to him to give any further explanations then.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the law relating to the religions instruction of Roman Catholic prisoners in England and Wales. In the present temper of the House, and as the principle of the Bill had been admitted in the fairest manner by the noble Viscount, he would simply move for leave to bring in the Bill.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, the Committee were aware that the religious instruction of Roman Catholic prisoners in England and Wales was given under an Act of Parliament which was passed before the period of Roman Catholic Emancipation. It was, therefore, impossible that Roman Catholic prisoners could be legally assembled for religious worship within the walls of the prison. The visiting justices of some county prisons had dwelt on the injustice of the present state of things, and had expressed their regret that the law was so strong that Roman Catholic prisoners could not be assembled in class to be instructed by priests of their own persuasion. In 1853 the noble Lord at the head of the Government said—
 "As far as Government prisons were concerned, he was quite prepared to state that he should feel it to be his duty to take steps for carrying into effect the views which had been expressed,—that in every Government prison there should be religious instruction given to every Catholic and Dissenter, as well as to every member of the Church of England, and that the person who gave it should receive that treatment which was consistent with a duo respect to his character, and such reward as might be adequate to the duties which he had to perform." [3  Hansard "It would be his duty early next Session to prepare and submit to Parliament a measure for the purpose of placing religious instruction in county gaols on the same footing as religious instruction in prisons more immediately under the control of the Government." [ Ibid
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that in justice to the hon. Member he must say that he had done him the honour of consulting him previous to making the Motion, and that he (Mr. Hennessy) had—on his own account only—said that he saw no objection to the fullest inquiry being made into the working of the College of Maynooth.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he was sure that every hon. Member in the House would appreciate the kindness of the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright), but he would assure him that it was not worth while at any future time to take the trouble to rebuke the hon. Member for Peterborough. In common with many others, he hoped that hon. Member would persevere in his course, for he firmly believed he had turned the whole anti-Catholic cause
 65
 MR. DILLWYN  in reply said, that if the right hon. Gentleman would separate the Vote for new works in each class of Estimates it would be a practical improvement upon the present system.
 MR. DILLWYN : Yes; if it were a considerable addition.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he rose to move the Resolution of which he had given notice in regard to Estimates for Public Works. The House had so long shown its indifference with regard to questions of financial reform, that if he had been bringing forward his Motion at the beginning of the Session, or even within the last month, he should have felt it necessary to have detained them longer than he now intended to do. The House, however, was at length awakening to the importance of taking some steps towards retrenchment. Many hon. Members had done their best to awaken the country to a sense of its increasing expenditure. The right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire was a convert to, and had advocated a large measure of, retrenchment, and he was glad to see the right hon. Gentleman among financial reformers, and wished that he had spoken from that side of the House, where he would have been more heartily cheered than he was by his usual supporters. He could not agree with all the right hon. Gentleman said in depreciation of "bloated armaments," but he would point out a. mode in which he thought the expenditure might be reduced. He believed that the expenditure in the War Department, and in other departments,
 53 54
 MR. DILLWYN  said, the Motion he had the honour to move pointed, as he thought, to a simple method of checking the continual demands upon the public purse of an unnecessary description. He believed, that if there was a distinct class of Estimates for Votes which were proposed for the first time, hon. Members would think it worth their while to be present when such Votes were taken, and to examine them more fully than they cared to do in the case of Votes which had already in some way or other received the sanction of Parliament. Why should not the House of Commons deal with the Estimates in the same manner as a private gentleman regulated his own expenditure? No private gentleman or man of business would consent to his agent undertaking new buildings without carefully considering the subject, nor would he allow items for such expenditure to he passed under his review as if they were a portion of his ordinary annual outgoings. They had been told over and over again by the Chancellor of the Exchequer that the Government were responsible to the House for the expenditure which they proposed; but in reality that responsibility was very slight, because the change of Governments enabled them to shift the blame to the shoulders of their predecessors. By the alteration which he sought to introduce, more direct responsibility would be created, and at the same time the passing of the ordinary Estimates would be facilitated. He would therefore conclude by moving the Resolution of which he had given notice.
 MR. KENDALL  observed, that it must require some little courage in the hon. Member for Peterborough to boar up against the attacks made, ns he (Mr. Kendall) thought, rather unfairly upon him. The hon. Member said, "I am accused of being unjust to Maynooth. Give me the Return of the persons educated there, and I will prove to you that they have not acted justly towards the persons who have been called upon to pay for their education—that they have not discharged their duty to their Queen and country." The hon. Member for Peterborough had from time to time attacked the priests educated at Maynooth, and had pointed out many evils resulting from their teaching. He now sought substantial proofs in the Return he moved for. That was the fair and honest way of putting the question, and he did not think the hon. Member should be run down for seeking the information.
 MR. KENDALL  said, he hoped that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire would persevere in the course he had adopted.
 MR. O'BRIEN  observed, that if this Return had been asked as from Oxford, Cambridge, or any other place of education in Ireland, it would have been scouted by every Member in the House. Let the hon. Member attack the Roman Catholic priestood in his annual Motions, but do not let him indulge in this eccentric abuse of them.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he thought that intelligent Commissioners would be far more competent than a jury to fix the boundaries.
 MR. R. HODGSON  said, he thought it would be better to adopt universally the hours from six p.m. on Saturday to six a.m. on Monday, those marking the usual working hours.
 MR. LOWE  said, that the hon. and gallant Gentleman had with much force pointed out the early age at which children left the schools under the system of the Privy Council, and also that many of the children left the schools without having acquired the rudiments of education. Agreeing with the hon. and gallant Member on these matters, he could not, however, join in the inference, that because children left the schools at an early age, without having acquired, in many instances, the rudiments of reading, writing, and arithmetic, and of religion, therefore the remedy was to be sought in teaching them something else. He should have thought that the inference ought to be quite the opposite. It was unnecessary for him to go at any length into the subject, which had been thoroughly investigated by the Royal Commissioners, who reported against continuing the aid to the schools adverted to by the hon. and gallant Member. Last year a Committee of that House also investigated the subject, and reported against the grant of aid. The opinion of the Select Committee of the House of Commons was, that if the children in these schools were children who had committed offences of a minor description, there were reformatories in which they might be retained and reformed; and that if they were only poor and destitute, their case was then one for the intervention of the Poor Law by district workhouse schools. If, however, they were of a nondescript class, not comprisable in either one or other of the categories just mentioned, then the recommendation of the Select Committee was, that they should he left to the voluntary attention and kindness of persons actuated by charitable feelings; and the Select Committee most expressly reported against the proposition of the hon. and gallant Member. Such were the views of the Select Committee of last year, and they appeared to be founded in justice and good sense. The House would understand how difficult, or, indeed, how impossible, it would be to devise conditions on which public money should be granted to these schools, the very essence of them being that they were missionary efforts, trying to pick up the waifs and strays of society not amenable to discipline. Were he to put them under the discipline of the Privy Council and exact from them something definite in the shape of intellectual progress in exchange for money given, he should be injuring in the most vital man-
 60
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, that some strong course ought to be taken to put a stop to the proceedings of the hon. Member for Peterborough, which were becoming intolerable. It was no recommendation of his Motion that it had the consent of the Chief Secretary for Ireland. Would the hon. Member like to have such a Return as that moved for respecting the school which he had attended? Perhaps it might show that he was in subordinate, or offensive to his schoolfellows. Hon. Members who had been guilty of boyish tricks would not like to have them put on Parliamentary record. The hon. Member for Peterborough, who denied that he used abusive language in speaking of Roman Catholics, was reported to have said, at one of the meetings he had addressed when "starring" in the country, that "If a Roman Catholic lived next door to him, he might consider him to be a very good fellow, but he would not trust him." Was not that offensive language for one gentleman to use towards another? The hon. Member would not venture to address it to him outside of that House. He hoped the hon. Member would keep the anti-Popery subject from getting into more serious hands, in which it might be made more mischievous.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he agreed that, in the majority of cases, the patent laws inflicted greater injury than
 51
 MR. COX  seconded the Motion.
 MR. W. EWART  said, that some of his constituents had exercised the right of fishing for 300 years on the northern, shores of Solway Firth, which the clause would deprive them of. Unless he obtained a guarantee that they would continue in the same position after the passing of the Bill as at present, he should oppose the clause.
 MR. W. LESLIE  proposed to leave out the words "thirty-six hours," and insert the words, "from the hour of six o'clock on Saturday night till six o'clock on the Monday morning."
 MR. LESLIE  said, he would agree to withdraw the Amendment, but he must at the same time protest against handing over to any persons the irresponsible powers conferred on the Commissioners.
 MR. W. LESLIE  said, he objected to that portion of the clause which empowered the Commissioners to define the boundaries between the river and the sea, and between an estuary and the sea. Such a power was too great to intrust to any body of men.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he only desired to call attention to the last line of the Return asked for—"The names and number who have left College during that period who have not completed their course of education, with the date and cause of leaving." He would put it to the House whether it would not be a most improper thing to ask for such a Return. Persons who had left College, and were now leading useful and creditable lives, would not desire to be stigmatized by the entry of "stupidity," or other more discreditable epithet against their names.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he begged leave to object to the latter part of the Motion.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he rose to submit the following Resolution: —
 "That, in any system of Education by Government aid, provision should be made for teaching in Industrial Schools; and that, with a view to encourage evening study by adult operatives, provision, be made for supplying a Teacher in such Mechanics' Institutes as may apply for one." maximum 58 "I think the value of these industrial certified schools in Scotland can scarcely be exaggerated." "It appears to us that the object which Industrial Schools are intended to promote is one which should not be left to private individuals, but should be accomplished at the public expense and by public authority." "I pray you to observe that we do not ask one penny from the public funds to feed these hungry, to cloth these naked, or, when it is necessary, to house these homeless children; but we complain of it as a monstrous wrong, that the Committee of Council, to whom are intrusted the monies voted for education, should deny us all help to educate them ! They refuse to aid us in educating those whose circumstances are so desperate, that unless we burthened ourselves to a greater or less extent with their maintenance, they must go altogether uneducated, having no choice but to beg, steal, or starve."
 MR. FRANK CROSSLEY  said, that, as a manufacturer, he had some experience on the subject, and could state that the body to which he belonged were becoming more and more impressed, not with the worthlessness, but with the importance of patents. The Act of 1852 effected a great reform in enabling men of small means to procure patents, not so much because the expense was reduced, as because it was distributed in several instalments
 52
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I am not acquainted with the nature of the Bill, and therefore I do not resist its introduction. But the question is evidently one that does not in the least affect the doctrines of the Roman Catholic Church; and I think it is very much to be regretted that the doctrines of that or any other Church should become the subject of discussion in this House. Whether the hon. Gentleman behind me is well founded in his objection to the Bill or not, he ought to be the first to move for leave to introduce a measure on the subject, because the law as it stands distinctly recognizes the right of every Roman Catholic to be attended at his own request by a priest of his own Church; and, moreover, persons under sentence of death are by law exclusively under the care of the priests of their own religious persuasion. The law at present is certainly in an anomalous condition, and therefore, though I do not know what the Bill of the hon. Member is, I think it quite right to allow him to lay it on the table, and I shall be very glad to consider its provisions carefully and impartially.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the question was whether the hon. Member would agree to omit the words.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he rose to move for an Address to the Crown, praying for the appointment of a Commission to inquire into the working of the Law relating to Patents for Inventions. The difference of the views taken of the Patent Laws, when regarded from the side of patentees, or from that of manufacturers and the public generally, was very great, hut in either view the state of those laws was important. At that moment, on the hest calculations that could he made, there were about 14,000 patents in existence. Every one of these patents represented an outlay of a considerable amount of money and time. The property these patents represented, therefore, could not be otherwise than very large. In addition to that, looking at the question from the point of view taken by the manufacturers and the country, it should be remembered that every patent granted, or that might be granted, was in substance a curtailment, to a certain extent, of the wide domain which might otherwise be occupied by the manufacturers generally; and it could not but be the interest of the manufacturers to see that there was no such curtailment, or that their proper province should not be invaded without some consideration and proper safeguards. He could not help thinking that the present was a convenient, opportune time for considering the question. It was rather more than ten years since, during the preparations for the Exhibition of 1851, that there was a considerable agitation in the country in reference to the state of the Patent Law then existing. Some persons who took an interest in the promotion of the Exhibition of 1851 also took a great and lively interest in the state of the Patent Law. After consideration before Committees of that and the other House of Parliament, an Act was passed in 1852, which had since regulated the grants of patents for inventions in this country. Another Exhibition of Arts and Manufactures as great, or at all events more extensive than the first, was then in existence; and it had so happened there had sprung up in the country a loud demand for a reconsideration of
 32 33 duella 34 35 36 37 38 39 scire facias £5 bonâ fide 40 41 42
 MR. CAIRD  said, as the duties to be intrusted to those Commissioners were of a most important character, it was desirable to have the names of the gentlemen to be appointed Commissioners publicly announced.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he proposed to
 73
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he felt bound to say that he had not been consulted on the subject. The right hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. Monsell) would bear him out that he had urged in the
 68 affiché
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  replied, that he was not able to say at once whether he was prepared to give effect to the recommendation of the Commissioners; hut as regarded the Calendar, he saw no reason why there should not be a Calendar annually published of Maynooth, in the same way as there was of Oxford and Cambridge and other Universities.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he understood that the Statute to which the hon. and gallant Gentleman referred did not apply to these two cases, and that the Statute applied to cases of benefices where Divine service had not been celebrated since 1833. The Chancellorship of Lis-more Cathedral had not been filled up; but he was informed that the tithes and glebes attached to it had been annexed to the funds of the perpetual curacy of the parish. With respect to the Deanery of Adfort,
 31
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he would propose to insert the following words to meet the difficulty:—
 "Not exceeding the average amount of maintenance and establishment charges incurred in respect to children maintained in workhouses."
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that that point had been considered by the Select Committee to which the Bill had been referred, and it had been thought the object of his right hon. Friend would be attained without the introduction of any set form of words into the clause. The intention was that any excess over the ordinary cost of the child's maintenance in a workhouse should be defrayed by private charity.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he had no objection to strike out the words with reference to the ago of children, leaving the matter entirely within the discretion of the guardians.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : After the agreeable surprise which we have had enacted this evening, and the hon. Member for Bristol having given us an example in his own person that silent voting is better than audible argument, of course this Bill will take its fate with the other, and therefore I will defer any remarks until another occasion.
 MR. WRITESIDE  said, he agreed with the right hon. Member as to the propriety of referring the Bill to a Select Committee; but he did not concur with him in thinking nothing ought to be done till next year. He believed the Committee would come to a decision that might be acted on that Session. It was more easy to introduce Bills than to carry them. And the right hon. Baronet would not be just to himself if he left himself without the assistance of others. A Bill might be carried in that Session that would save himself the labour of introducing one.
 MR. HENLEY  said, be did not object to the Bill being read a second time, as he understood the Committee was to be postponed till towards the end of June, which would give sufficient time for the consideration of the subject. The merits of the first portion of the Bill consisted to a great extent in the amount of the saving which would be effected, and on that point he was not prepared to offer any opinion, as ho did not know what the expenses of the existing system were. But he entertained considerable doubt whether it would be safe to impose fines upon an absent juryman, on the assumption that the letter containing the summons had been duly delivered. Under the present system it very often happened, though there was no appearance, that the returning officer had it in his power to state mitigating circumstances which bad come to his knowledge.
 MR. LEFROY  said, be believed that lessening the duration of elections in Ireland would have the effect of doing away | with some of the excitement that prevailed at those elections.
 COLONEL VANDELEUR  said, if the Bill passed, it would inflict great pecuniary injury upon many persons who had engaged in the salmon fisheries. For them some compensation ought certainly to be provided, if the change proposed in the law were made. But the Bill made no provision for any such compensation, and he could not, therefore, give it his support. The contemplated destruction of the stake weirs and bag nets would not divide the fish more equally, but would simply give it all to the lax weir proprietors. The stake weirs and bag nets were recognized by the Act of 1842, and they were placed under the control of the Commissioners. There would be no objection to any modification of the regulations to which they were subject, if the Commissioners deemed any alterations to be necessary; but there was no pretence for saying that the produce of the fisheries had of late years diminished. On the contrary, he believed that since 1842 the fish had largely increased above the weirs, instead of diminishing. Such was especially the case with regard to the Shannon, with which he was well acquainted. It would, in his opinion, be a cruelty to pass this Bill without a full inquiry being first had. As to the sea fishery, it had no doubt decreased; but that was partly owing, he believed, to the fish having changed their haunts, and partly to the obstinate opposition of the Irish fishermen. When trawling boats were introduced into the Bay of Galway, they had to be protected by revenue boats, owing to the determined opposition of the Claddagh fishermen. He hoped, if the Bill were read a second time, it would be referred to a Select Committee.
 LORD FERMOY  said, he felt an objection to the Bill in  limine 77 78
 LORD FERMOY  explained that the statements which ho had made were founded on the Report of the Fishery Commissioners. Ho was quite satisfied with the debate which bad taken place, and, with the permission of the House, would withdraw his Amendment.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, that the argument of the lion. Member for the King's County, founded on the non-existence in Ireland of a network of railways, was not applicable, as it was proposed by the Bill to increase the number of polling-places.
 MR. CALCUTT  observed that he would support the second reading of the Bill, on the understanding that it was to be referred to the Committee.
 MR. HUNT  said, he thought a great deal of the cumbrous machinery by which lists of jurors were at present made out, and jurors themselves summoned, might be got rid of if the agency of the Post Office were more extensively used. The object of the Bill was to provide that clerks of the peace, instead of issuing warrants for the high constable to take precepts to the parish officers, should themselves forward these through the post as registered letters to the parish officers; and in like manner, when the lists were allowed by the magistrates at Petty Sessions, that the magistrates' clerk should return them to the clerk of the peace without the intervention of the high constable. The other object of the Bill was to dispense with the heavy outlay entailed upon the sheriff in having to employ a staff to leave summonses at the houses of jurors. That object it was sought to accomplish by following the precedent contained in the Registration Act, under which proof of
 85
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  said, he must admit the importance of the subject, but be could not concur in the censure passed on the right hon. Secretary for Ireland, for the alleged neglect of the Government in not bringing forward a measure of its own. In common justice the right hon. Baronet must be absolved from blame; his industry during the present Session deserved all praise; indeed, he had shown rather an over-anxiety for legislating than any neglect. He was glad the Government had not brought in a Bill on the subject of the Irish fisheries in this Session, and that the question had fallen into the able hands of the hon. Member for Wexford. Not only what had passed during the debate, but what was passing out of doors, showed that they had not sufficient information to enable them to legislate. Before they did so there ought to be a searching investigation into the subject,
 82
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he thought it would be a hard measure to fine jurymen under the circumstances contemplated by the Bill, seeing that they were sufficiently punished in being kept away from their business. He should not, however, oppose the Motion; but he would take that opportunity of expressing his belief that a good Jury Bill on the principle of rating would be a very desirable measure.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he should oppose the Motion. He thought sixteen Members were an amply sufficient number to form the Committee on the Bill.
 MR. BLAKE  said, he had witnessed the disastrous effects of fixed engines on the fishing both of the rivers Suir and Barrow. He thought the noble Lord the Member for Marylebone must have listened to idle stories about the misconduct of the present proprietor of the lax weir at Limerick. He could assure the House that the statements about "crocodiles" and "stuffed otters" having been sunk to scare away the fish were altogether unfounded as far as that gentleman was concerned.
 MR. BRADY  said, he must insist on the necessity of legislation during that Session. The objection to Bills in the hands of private Members was a stereotyped one, with which he had been familiar ever since he entered the House.
 MR. GEORGE  said, it was a matter deeply to be deplored, that as the Bill was of such importance in the opinion of the Government, they had not that Session introduced a measure of their own upon it. The fisheries of Ireland, whether sea or inland fisheries, were of paramount importance to Ireland. Out of the 122 clauses there were perhaps not more than three which could be said to be new, or to raise any serious question for the consideration of the House; but, as some clauses seriously affected vested interests, he should certainly give the Bill his opposition, unless he understood it was to be stringently examined by a Select Committee. He thought the most stringent measures should be adopted for protecting the fish in the upper waters of rivers, for it was there, in his belief, that the great destruction of fish took place.
 MR. GEORGE  said, he had no objection to shortening the duration of county elections in Ireland; but a machinery already existed for increasing the number of polling-places in cases where it was necessary to do so.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he was afraid that the Bill would not lead to a diminution of expense and inconvenience in the Irish counties. The erection of additional polling-places would lead to a new outlay; and Ireland was not supplied, like England, with an extensive network of railway communication, which could most readily secure the success of such a measure.
 MR. AGAR-ELLIS  said, he rose to move the second reading of the Bill. Its object was to limit the time for polling at elections in Ireland to one day, and thus assimilating them to the time in England. In order to accomplish that object be would propose to increase the number of polling-places, which did not exceed one for each barony. That part of the Bill, however, would be permissive only. He saw no reason why the expenses of the altered system should exceed the present.
 MR. AGAR-ELLIS , in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, that its object was to limit the time which should elapse between the receipt of the writ and the holding of an election in Ireland.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he rose to move the second reading of this Bill. Its object was to assimilate the fishery laws of Ireland to those of England, not only as to the inland, but the deep-sea fishing. The question which everybody would ask was, why, with a dearth of food on the west coast of Ireland, sometimes approaching to a famine, the Irish fisheries were so neglected by the Irish people. The Commissioners, who in 1836 had inquired into the subject, had remarked upon the anomaly that Scotch herrings were imported into Ireland while there were living shoals of the same fish on the Irish shores. Very large quantities of herrings were, in fact, brought every year into the country from England and Scotland, along with ling, cod, and hake, although, as Sir William Temple long ago said, the fisheries along the Irish coast presented a mine of wealth beyond any existing underground, and Arthur Young declared that next to land there was no manufacture or trade of half as much consequence to Ireland as her fisheries would prove to be if judiciously encouraged. This was a subject of great importance to England as well as to Ireland, for the English market would derive great advantage from the new supplies which would be forthcoming if
 76 Edinburgh Review
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, he had not heard a single reason why the Bill should not be read a second time. It was said that one clause of the Bill destroyed rights created by a former Act, the 5 & 6  Vict
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, the state of the House sufficiently showed that the subject was "a fishy one." His noble Friend the Member for Marylebone was not, he thought, open to the attack made upon him by the Chief Secretary for Ireland; but, at the same time, that right hon. Gentleman could not be charged with any unwillingness to take charge of Bills. At the present moment he had the conduct of fourteen Government Bills relating to Ireland exclusively. There were fifteen others in the hands of private Members, and every day and night brought forth a fresh one. All these measures related exclusively to Ireland, he supposed with a view of consolidating the Union between the two countries.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he supposed two or three must have gone to the House of Lords. The Bills which still remained in the hands of the right hon. Gentleman, were used night after night as "fixed engines" for the torture of Irish Members, and he did not wish to arm the Chief Secretary with any others. He very much wished that some means could he devised for reconciling the different interests affected by the present Bill; but, as far as he could see, the contest resolved itself into one between the proprietor of the lax weir at Limerick
 84
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he rose to move that the Select Committee on the Judgments Law Amendment (Ireland) Bill, and the Land Debentures (Ireland) Bills, do consist of nineteen Members; and that Mr. M. O'FERRALL, Sir EDWARD GUOQAN, and Colonel GEEVULE be added to the Committee.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he was surprised at the opposition of the right hon. and learned Gentleman. He should be glad if the right hon. and learned Gentleman would himself take charge of both the Bills; and as he (Mr. Scully) had charge of one of them, he was surprised that his proposal was objected to. He thought that the addition of these three Gentlemen's names would be found useful.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  asked, that his name might be struck off the hon. and learned Member's Committee.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  remarked, that under the Bill the increase in the number of polling-places would be made on the petition of magistrates to the Lord Lieutenant. He thought that such a step should be taken only on the joint application of the sitting Members; or, at all events, that the sitting Members should have a veto on the application.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he concurred with the opinion of the right hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Whitcside). It was of the
 83
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, he was glad the Bill had been brought before the House; but he felt that it had been introduced too late in the Session for practical legislation on the subject. He agreed with the noble Lord (Lord Fermoy), that the
 79
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had no doubt that the limitation of the polling to one day would prove beneficial in Irish counties, as it bad in English. If the existing law afforded sufficient facilities for increasing the number of polling-places, the clause to effect that object might not be necessary; but that point could he settled in Committee.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he thought the suggestion of the lion. Baronet was worthy of consideration. The hon. Member for Wexford was not open to the reproach which the noble Lord the Member for Marylebone had applied to him, for he deserved the thanks of the House for the labour he had bestowed on the preparation of the Bill. But whenever the noble Lord made a speech in that House, he always attacked a Member of the Government, generally himself and the introducer of a Bill. The question was one of immense importance. There were boundless resources on the coast of Ireland, which were not available, owing to causes into which he need not then enter, and which required protection and encouragement. The Bill was certainly very voluminous; but considering the numerous and complicated interests involved, it was doubtful whether it could safely be compressed. The main question might be put into a very small compass. The hon. Member justly complained of the fixed engines on the coasts and at the mouths of the great rivers, which were productive of incalculable mischief. The obvious answer to the argument that the supplies of fish from Ireland had increased was, that if such an excessive rate of production were persisted in, it would probably lead to the destruction of the fisheries. He had received communications from Limerick and elsewhere in favour of the Bill, and his correspondents all joined in complaining of the use of bag and stake nets. It was quite true
 80
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, there were only eleven Government Bills relating to Ireland at present before the House.
 MR. DUDLEY FOETESCUE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether his
 88 Mars
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the Report was presented without the Evidence, because it was assumed the House would wish to see that Report without delay. But the Evidence was in the hands of the printer, and would be ready to present in a few days.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, If he has any objection to lay upon the table of the House a Return of the number of Iron-cased Vessels built and building, or in course of conversion, for the use of Her Majesty's Navy; and a Copy of the List in the possession of Her Majesty's Government, of the thirty-six Iron-cased Ships said to be built or building for the Government of France, with the state of progress and tonnage of each vessel, as far as practicable, and in both cases distinguishing sea-going ships from floating batteries?
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he wished to know if it were the case that a special document was given by the French Government to Lord Cowley, with the request that Captain Gower, the naval aide-de-camp to the Embassy at Paris, might go and examine for himself? If the noble Lord had any such document, would he lay it on the table of the House?
 LORD NAAS  said, he approved the object of the Amendment, but, at the same time, he was of opinion that the children must be received into the workhouse for some limited time, until the services of an outdoor nurse could be secured. The evils of putting infants into workhouses
 95
 MR. H. A. HERBRET  maintained that in the workhouses every provision was made for the sanitary welfare of the children who were inmates. He had the greatest objection to making it compulsory on the guardians to send out the children, and held that it should be left to their discretion.
 COLONEL DICKSON  remarked, that as he understood him, his hon. Friend the Member for the King's County did not mean to remove the children altogether from the jurisdiction of the workhouse authorities.
 SIR HERVEY BRUCE  said, he thought that it would be sufficient to leave the matter to the discretion of the guardians.
 LORD NAAS  said, he was rather alarmed at the statement of the right hon. Baronet. If children were not to be taken into the workhouse, they ought to be given to the care of nurses. He decidedly objected to the children being sent to the establishments referred to by the right hon. Baronet. To give the power to do so would be a serious departure from the main principles of the Poor Law, which he hoped the Committee would not sanction.
 MR. YANCE  said, he feared that such a provision would create discord and dissension among the guardians, some of whom would be for sending the children to one kind of institution, while others would have a partiality for a different one.
 MR. M'EVOY  said, he hoped the Committee would retain the words.
 LORD NAAS  remarked, that in the English Bill there was a provision that the schools should be open to inspection, and be certified by the Poor Law Board. There was no such safeguard in the Bill under discussion with respect to the institutions in Ireland.
 LORD NAAS  said, that after the important decision to which the Committee had just come, it would be right to know from the Government how far those children were to be supported out of the rates, and also whether it was intended to assimilate the clause as it now stood to the clause relating to English children which had been carried a few nights ago. He thought that the Government ought to undertake to bring up clauses, providing that the institutions in Ireland to which the children might be intrusted ought to be put under the same restrictions with regard to inspection and other matters as those of England. Until some such intention was announced, the discussion of the clause ought to be deferred.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, the subject before the Committee was the Amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Cork.
 THE CHAIRMAN : The debate is restricted to the Amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Cork.
 LORD NAAS  said, what he wanted to know was whether the meaning that had been put upon the words in question was correct—whether children might be sent to institutions of a charitable character
 107
 LORD NAAS  said, that if the power were strictly limited to children put out to nurse in the country, they ought to adopt the longer time. If there were other considerations, they might extend the time now, with the understanding that any necessary modifications should be made upon bringing up the report.
 MR. KER  observed, that without knowing the meaning of the words "or otherwise" it was impossible to know how to vote.
 MR. BEAMISH  said, that s there was no disposition to meet the reasonable requests of Irish Members, and with a view
 111
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, he had some doubts whether the Motion of the hon. Gentleman was not an evasion of the rule of the House which forbade the same question being moved twice at the same stage. At the same time, he was not prepared to say that the difference between nine and ten years was not a substantial one, and he thought he should best discharge his duty by resolving any doubt that he might have in favour of discussion.
 MR. BEAMISH  said, he was still of opinion that the  maximum
 MR. KER  was in favour of altering the wording of the clause, so as to meet the objection to the words "or otherwise."
 LORD EDWIN HILL  moved, that the Chairman do now leave the chair.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  observed, that the hon. Member, although he had a very keen nose for questions of foreshore, was mistaken in that instance. The Bill was not intended to affect such questions, but merely to prevent accidents, by prohibiting vessels from anchoring within the line of fire.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, the question of the noble Lord was one of considerable importance, and he would endeavour to state what the Admiralty was doing in respect to the iron for the supply of the Navy. Hitherto the contracts for iron had been of a very simple description; but as they had progressed with building iron ships, and especially iron-cased ships, the Admiralty thought fit to take into their consideration the best means of obtaining the best quality of iron, and they had, with a view of issuing fresh contracts, given notice to close all their contracts for iron; and they were going to call together
 92
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  said, he did not object to putting children out to nurse, as a general rule. What he objected to was, that the regulation should be made under all circumstances compulsory. No doubt the mortality of pauper children would always be very high, considering the hardship and exposure which they suffered before they were brought to the union.
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  said, he did not see how the suggestion of the noble Lord would overcome the religious difficulty. There would be the same question at the Board as to the religion of the nurse as there was as to that of the child. There was this objection to the proposed arrangement—that a mother might be induced to send her child to the workhouse in the hope of being afterwards paid for nursing it outside.
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  said, he did not regret that the words "or otherwise" were in the clause. It was much better that the children should be kept in some public institution, instead of being sent to the dirty, filthy cabins in which they would assuredly be brought up.
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  said, he hoped that no change whatever would be made in the clause, which stood as prepared by the Poor Law Commissioners. The whole question of sending children" out of the workhouse was considered by the Select Committee as a sanitary one, and the age of five years was fixed upon as that beyond which extensive mortality did not exist in the Irish poorhouses. He held, therefore, that to extend the time of nursing from five to twelve years, would be to impose an unnecessary burden upon the ratepayers. Children were well fed and well educated in the workhouse, and in all respects were better treated than the children of some of those who were taxed for their support. If sent outside, they must necessarily be placed with the very poorest class of people, for none other would receive thorn; and, while they would be worse fed and worse clothed, in health, they would not be so well attended to in sickness as they would be if allowed to remain in the workhouse. A boy in the workhouse would be obliged to attend school every day; whereas, outside, he might go as seldom and as irregularly as he pleased. The two objections which had been urged to children being brought up in the workhouse — first, that they inevitably contracted workhouse attachments, and were less likely afterwards to be absorbed in the industrial population; and, secondly, that girls especially were apt to be contaminated by association with women of bad character—were alike based on a totally false assumption, and showed in those who used such arguments an entire ignorance of the system of classification which was carried out in the workhouse, which rendered such contamination literally impossible. The question of outdoor relief had been referred to. He believed, if granted, it would be the ruin of the country.
 LORD RICHARD GROSVENOR  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether, considering the great importance which attaches to the quality of iron, both for building and for plating ships, the Government proposes to take any now steps for securing a supply of iron for the purposes of the Navy of the best quality?
 MAJOR O'REILLY  said, he hoped the Committee would consent to give the discretionary power to the Poor Law guardians to allow children under twelve years of age to be brought up out of the workhouse. The greater average mortality of children in workhouses did not cease at the age of five years. It extended to higher ages. It was impossible to bring up children so well in these public establishments as among the mass of the population.
 MAJOR O'REILLY  said, he thought there ought to be some provision to enable boards of guardians to dispose of children above one or two years of age, but under five. There were institutions in Ireland peculiarly adapted for taking care of such infants as were above the age of maternal nurture.
 MR. LEFROY  said, he considered the extension of the time would be the most injurious to the interests of the country, and he should support the five years against the twelve.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he wished to know the extent of property above and below high-water mark that would be affected by the Bill, the rent to be charged, and whether the public could get compensation for the loss of fishing, &c., at certain times of the tide?
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he would remind the Committee that the division to which the hon. Member for Cork had referred took place at two o'clock in the morning. He apprehended that the real purpose of the provision was that the children should be put out to nurse. If that were to be so, let it be clearly understood; but let them not exonerate the guardians from what was their obvious duty. If the Committee chose to accept the compromise, it was not for him to divide against it at that time.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that, according to the proviso of this clause, of which some hon. Gentlemen seemed to approve, if a gipsy stole a child and brought it to the workhouse, that child must be brought up in the religion of a gipsy. The only intelligible reason given by the advocates of the clause was, that there was a strong disposition in Ireland to resist the present law. Inasmuch, however, as the State maintained the poor, was it not natural that the children, who were made the children of the State by being brought up under the Poor Law, should be brought up in the religion of the State? Concession upon the point under consideration would neither satisfy the people of Ireland nor England, it would be far easier to maintain the principle of the present law than to adopt any compromise; and a more miserable compromise than that which the clause suggested he could not conceive. The result of passing the Bill with the present clause would be that there would be a perfect scramble for these unfortunate children. It had been suggested that the police would bring most of these children to the workhouses; if so,
 123
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he should oppose the Amendment. In a district where the bulk of the population were Roman Catholics, it might be difficult to find a Protestant nurse; and in a Protestant district it would be equally difficult to find a Roman Catholic nurse.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, the noble Lord had not answered the question as to whether it would be the intention of Her Majesty's Government to intervene in any way either for or against the powers of Central Asia, or to extend any operations designed for the security of India beyond the limits of the great mountain passes which form the present frontier of the country.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether, on the conclusion of the last Persian war by the evacuation of Herat by the Persians, Ahmed Jan, the Sultan or Euler of Herat, did not acknowledge the sovereignty of the Shah by performing allegiance to him, and having the coinage struck in the name of the Shah; whether it is not the case that this same Sultan of Herat, either with or without the assistance of Persian troops, is now marching on Candahar, that the sons of Dost Mohammed of Caubul, are marching against him, and that there are imminent probabilities of war breaking out in those regions; and whether, in case of the occurrence of such hostilities, it will be the intention of Her Majesty's Government, or of the Indian Government, to intervene in any way either for or against any of the powers of Central Asia, or to extend any operations designed for the security of India beyond the limits of the great mountain passes which form the present frontier of that country?
 LORD FERMOY  said, that the great difficulty with pauper children was to get them absorbed in the rest of the population. Most people would prefer to take a young woman as a servant from a religious institution rather than to take her from a workhouse.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that the Reso-solution of the Committee pointed entirely to the putting out children to nurse up to the age of twelve years. He observed that Question 621, as put by him, was in these words—
 105 "The seventh clause is one to give to the board of guardians the power of relieving any orphan or deserted children out of the workhouse by placing such children out to nurse or otherwise, according to their discretion." "There are two reasons, then—first, a medical reason; and then the moral reason—namely, the desirability of cultivating that family attachment which grows up in a child, when cared for, even in a family not its own."
 MR. CARDWELL  observed, that the proposal of his hon. and learned Friend (Sir Hugh Cairns) had entirely overthrown the argument of the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin, It also disposed of the proposition of the hon. Baronet the Member for Dublin (Sir E. Grogan). The proposition of the last-named Gentleman, that in a country the majority of which, and especially of the poor, to which class these children belonged, were Roman Catholics, every deserted child should be entered in the Protestant religion, was so manifestly repugnant to justice that he was not sur-
 121
 MR. WARNER  said, he wished to ask whether the two unsuccessful candidates could compete for the next vacancy?
 COLONEL GREVILLE  said, he wanted an explanation of the words "or otherwise."
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  said, the provision, whatever its merits or demerits, had been before the House since the beginning of the Session; his right hon. Friend could not, therefore, be charged fairly with practising any surprise upon the House. The hon. Member for Dungarvan (Mr. Maguire) had taunted the right hon. Baronet with his inexperience, but he ventured to assert that the description given by that hon. Member of the union workhouses of Ireland, as regarded the condition and education of the younger inmates, was not warranted by the actual state of those establishments. Children in the generality of Irish workhouses were better clothed, better educated, and better fed than the children of the corresponding classes outside.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  said, he was surprised at the excitement which these simple words had occasioned. It would almost seem as if his right hon. Friend had been a party to some corrupt compact.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  said, he hoped that the proposal of the hon. Member for Cork would be adopted by his right hon. Friend (Sir Robert Peel). The principle was one which nobody could have the slighest hesitation in supporting—namely, to provide an additional, security that there should be no attempt at proselytizing. The Committee would do an outrageous thing not to support it.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  said, the question was not between a nurse and the mother, but between two hirelings—a nurse inside the workhouse and a nurse outside.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  said, he had not changed his opinion on the question of age; but after the division that had been taken, if the compromise was to be adopted, he thought the words "or otherwise" ought to be retained. He hoped, therefore, that the Chief Secretary for Ireland would not adopt the suggestion of his right hon. and learned Friend the Member for the University of Dublin. If the guardians, in the exercise of their discretion, should think fit to place children in Roman Catholic institutions—[Mr. WHITE-SIDE: In convents.] Yes, if the guardians should think that in certain cases the health of the children would be better preserved in convents, he would say, "Let them act as they think fit." He hoped there would be no misunderstanding on the point, and that the Government would be firm on it.
 MR. M'CANN  said, that in order to induce some guardians to put children out, it was necessary that the law should be compulsory.
 MR. M'CANN  said, that in the case of the English children the only question raised was as to whether the provision should extend to the age of sixteen, or not apply to children over fourteen.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he thought, with all deference to the hon. Gentleman, that a discussion might now very properly arise upon the questions put by his noble Friend.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he could not concur in all the remarks of the last speaker; but the hon. Gentleman had this in his favour—that in the opinion of the Select Committee boards of guardians should be authorized to place pauper children out at nurse up to the age of twelve years. If the words "or otherwise" should be inserted in the Bill and become law, the result would be that the guardians might send the children under their care, not only to schools, but to other institutions — such as convents — to be educated at the public expense.
 104
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that Members on that side of the House were disposed to give the right hon. Gentleman every assistance in passing the Bill; but a Minister of the Crown was bound to give the necessary explanations. They wished to know distinctly how the orphan institutions which might arise were to be supported. Were boards of guardians to have the power to maintain such institutions out of the funds of the State? That question must be discussed fully and fairly, and any attempt to act covertly in that House always failed. He believed that a more unwise thing could not be done than to introduce into the Poor Law Act a provision which would most assuredly lead to the establishment of institutions totally different from those contemplated by the Poor Law. If they did so, he feared that the result would be bickerings, ill-will, animosity, and quarrelling in every Poor Law Board throughout Ireland.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he wished to clear up a misconception on the part of the hon. Member. He had certainly remarked, that if the words "or otherwise" were erased from the clause, he was willing to vote for an extension of the term. The hon. Member for Mayo, however, reduced the matter to its original confusion. The right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary also adhered with tenacity to the words of the clause, not being aware, as the Home Secretary appeared to be, of their legal force. Under those circumstances, he was obliged to vote for the clause.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that, looking forward to the probability of litigation and vexation from the presence of the words "or otherwise," he would propose that they should be struck out, and that the longer period should be adopted, with some limitation as to expense.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether any rule has been framed by the National Hoard of Education in Ireland which permits the use of prayer at the opening of a school and during school hours, or the posting of the Ten Commandments in the School?
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he wanted to know whether, if ten o'clock was the hour for the school to commence, there would be prayer after that hour?
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he thought that if the proposed compromise was to be carried out, the words "or otherwise" ought to be omitted. There would be great dissatisfaction if guardians were to levy rates for the erection of orphanages outside workhouses, and for the maintenance of children in those separate institutions.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that hon. Members on his side of the House wished to understand the position in which they now stood. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland had yielded to the arguments of hon. Members who represented one important interest in that House, but had conceded nothing to those who represented an interest equally important. He wished to know whether the right hon. Baronet would reconsider the subject on the report, so as to give the House the benefit of what had been stated by the Home Secretary.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that the question before the Committee was very important. The result of the proposal was, that whatever might be the religion of the policeman who happened to find a deserted child, the child must be brought up in that religion. According to that view, if a policeman were a Mahomedan, or a Unitarian, any child he might happen to find must be brought up in that creed. Now that was, to say the least of it, a very novel proposition. The practice hitherto had been to register deserted children in the religion of the State. In support of that view, the opinion of Judge Blackburn, when Attorney General, was conclusive. The exact point was laid before him; and the decision of the learned Judge was clear, that in the case where the child was deserted by the father and by the mother, the guardians had no alternative than to bring it up in the State religion. That seemed to him to be a more reasonable course of proceeding than the rough and ready mode advocated by the hon. Member for Galway. He would admit, that if the religion of the
 119
 MR. WHITESIDE  observed, that he had not been aware that Clause 11 would be struck out without any discussion.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he objected to proceeding with the Bill at that hour (12 o'clock).
 MR. BRADY  said, he hoped the compromise would be satisfactory to the people of Ireland.
 MR. BRADY  said, he hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would persevere with the clause. If the guardians should commit themselves by improper conduct, their constituents would have power to turn them out.
 MR. BRADY  said, in the interests of humanity, it was absolutely necessary that children of a tender age should not be kept in the workhouse, where, from want of pure air and exercise, the mortality amongst them was very great.
 MR. GEORGE  said, the question before the Select Committee was, whether—till five years or any other period—it would be safe to intrust boards of guardians with a discretion to put children out to nurse; but the great preponderance of evidence was that, after five years, especially in an educational point of view, they were better in the poorhouse. The subtle construction which had first been put upon the words "or otherwise," in Clause 9, by the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland, had never been contemplated by the Committee of last year. It would be a most unfitting and indecorous way, under cover of two such words, to introduce a new and highly important
 106
 MR. GEORGE  said, he should be the last person to insinuate anything of the kind. He merely expressed his belief that the right hon. Baronet had hastily adopted a decision calculated to be attended with injurious effects.
 MR. GEORGE  said, he would prefer having a destitute child brought up in the
 122
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he rose to express his willingness to accept the concession of the right hon. Baronet in the same spirit as that in which it had been offered. He believed that concession would not only terminate an angry discussion, but would much improve the Bill.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he would then propose as an Amendment in line 8, the substitution of the word "twelve" for "five," the object being to extend to a period of twelve, instead of five years, the time during which it should be lawful under the operation of the Bill for a board of guardians to provide for the relief of any orphan or deserted child out of the workhouse. The Committee of the House,
 103
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he would appeal to the Government not to take advantage of the misconception, which had obviously occurred through a mistake made by the Chief Secretary.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that as the object of Irish Members had been defeated in consequence of a mistake committed by a Member of the Government, he should move, as the first of a series of Amendments, the addition to the clause of the words—
 "The guardians of the poor may, with the consent of the Commissioners, continue such relief from year to year, until the child attain the ago of nine years." 112 "Provided always that the guardians of the poor may, with the consent of the Poor Law Commissioners, continue such relief from year to year until the child attains the age of nine years, should the guardians consider that such extension of outdoor relief is necessary for the preservation of the child's health."
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that if the word "five" were retained, he would oppose the Bill at every stage.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he would consent to omit the words "received into" from his Amendment.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether the Government have taken any steps to carry out the recommendation of the Select Committee on Civil Service Ap-
 93
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he rose to move an Amendment which would have the effect of preventing guardians of the poor receiving and keeping in the workhouses orphan and deserted children under two years of age. He rested his case upon the statement of the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary, that 47 per cent of such children died every year, while the mortality in the same class of children out of the -workhouses was only 16 per cent, thus showing that 31 per cent of these poor children were killed by law in the Irish workhouses. The Amendment was also sanctioned by the precedent of the noble Lord the Member for Cockermouth (Lord Naas), who, in 1858, proposed a similar prohibition, only he included all children under six years of age, instead of those under two. The right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary estimated the cost of rearing the children out of the workhouse at about the same as that of rearing them in the workhouse, and therefore there could be no objection on the ground of expense.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, his hon. and gallant Friend was quite right. He would quote the highest authority as to the state of the workhouses. The Poor Law Commissioners in one of their Reports said—
 "We beg to draw attention to the great difficulty of rearing infant children who are admitted into the workhouse under two years of age without their mothers, and to the great mortality which prevails among those children. It is quite impossible to procure for them in the workhouse that kind of substitute for maternal care which, is necessary for them at that age."
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he should support the Amendment.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he was of opinion that the words ought to be retained. There might exist in Ireland at present, or there might spring up hereafter, institutions to which it would be desirable to send orphan children when they left the nurses to whom they had been confided.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he believed the medical authorities in Ireland had given it as their opinion that on mere sanitary grounds it was expedient that children should for a longer period than the first five years of their age be brought up out of the workhouse. He believed, too, that the last place in which a boy or girl would receive an education calculated to fit either for the daily duties of life was in the workhouse. It was found from experience that young women trained there were entirely unsuited to become domestic servants. For his own part, he felt the strongest conviction that the future of Ireland depended to a great extent on the decision at which the Committee might arrive in reference to the Amendment.
 MR. VANCE  said, he would recommend the words to be omitted, in order to prevent the occurrence of disputes.
 MR. VANCE  said, he did not regard this as a religious question at all. He thought that it would be much wiser to leave the question of maintaining the child inside or outside the workhouse to be decided at the option of the guardians. It would, in his opinion, be extremely dangerous to make it compulsory to remove all children from the workhouse.
 MR. VANCE  observed, that the Protestants of Ireland had some dependence in the Chief Secretary; and, after the statement of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Kerry (Mr. Herbert), he hoped the right hon. Baronet would inform him whether the Government would agree to strike out the words "or otherwise."
 MR. VANCE  said, he would move that the Chairman report progress.
 MR. VANCE  replied, that by the decision of the court the child was to be educated in the religion of the State.
 MR. VANCE  said, the question was one of principle, and one that, as a Protestant of Ireland, he could not consent to give up. The Court of Queen's Bench had decided that a deserted child should be educated in the religion of the State. Such was the law of the land, and the boards of guardians in Dublin had always acted upon that principle. He regarded the clause as a most dangerous attempt to abrogate a long-established law, and a first step towards separating the State from the Church in Ireland.
 MR. VANCE  said, he had no objection to that arrangement.
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL  said, that if those words were retained, all institutions to which the children were sent ought to be open to inspection.
 MR. HASSARD  said, he thought that the words in question would defeat the object of the Select Committee.
 MR. HASSARD  said, he should support the Amendment upon both moral and social grounds, believing that children would be better brought up outside the workhouse than in.
 MR. O'BRIEN  said, he wished to ask whether the Government had not received from some eminent medical men in Dublin an expression of opinion in favour of the Amendment?
 MR. O'BRIEN  said, he hoped that the right hon. Baronet would give the hon. Member for Dublin no information on the subject. The hon. Member had shown no great anxiety to strike out the words to which he now so strongly objected until he heard that the Government agreed to adopt the age of eight years instead of five.
 MR. O'BRIEN  said, he hoped it would be known from what quarter the opposition to the further progress of the Bill proceeded.
 MR. MORE O'FERRALL  said, he would suggest the omission of the words
 109
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he wished to ask, When the House was likely to adjourn for the Whitsuntide recess?
 MR. CONOLLY  said, it was totally
 101
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he proposed to insert a proviso, which would limit boards of guardians in their choice of persons to whom the children should be intrusted to the selection of those who were of the same religion as that in which the children were registered.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he wished to ask whether he was to understand, that should the Committee determine on twelve, instead of five years, the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary would resign office?
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he was afraid the unfortunate question of religion would arise, unless the Amendment was so modified as to render it imperative upon the authorities to place the child with a nurse of the same religion as itself.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether any, and how many,
 90
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he did not wish to disturb the harmony of the Committee; but he regarded the compromise offered by the Chief Secretary as a miserable one, and thought the Committee ought to have insisted on the limit of twelve years. The noble Viscount said he had been convinced by the arguments that had been used that night. It was really wonderful how the members of a Government were all convinced like a pack of hounds, and all ran upon the same scent. The pack was now found running
 114
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, that the objection was that the clause altered the law of the land. Why there was not a clause in the Bill that did not more or less alter the law of the land. The whole business of the House of Commons was to abrogate bad laws; and if they did not do so, they might as well shut up shop altogether. The great argument on the other side was that deserted children should be
 120
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, that hon. Members opposite could, if they chose, move to omit the words "or otherwise" on the report. The hon. Member (Sir E. Grogan) must, however, understand that there would be "no surrender" on that side of the House. If Roman Catholic children were educated in convents, there were, on the other band, excellent Protestant establishments for orphans of that persuasion. When the report was brought up, it would be found that hon. Members had forgotten all that had been said in the present debate, and there would not be a word of it in the newspapers.
 MR. COGAN  said, he saw no objection to the admission of the children into the workhouse until nurses were found for them. He would, therefore, suggest that the word "received" should be omitted, so that the Amendment might run— "No orphan or deserted child shall be maintained in a workhouse until after the age of two years."
 MR. COGAN  said, he could not hut express the surprise which he, and others near him, felt at the result of the division. He understood there was a sort of agreement with the right hon. and learned
 110
 MR. COGAN  said, he should support the grant to boards of guardians of the permissive power. On grounds of humanity, for the sake of the children's health, as well as of economy to the ratepayers, it was equally desirable. If they were brought up out of the workhouse, the children would soon be absorbed into the labouring class, and on every account he greatly regretted that the policy sanctioned by his predecessor had not been followed by the present Secretary for Ireland. It was not in that case alone that Irishmen had reason to regret that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cardwell) was not still Secretary for Ireland.
 MR. GREGORY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, If the Evidence taken before the Defence Commissioners will be laid before the House, together with the Report; and, if not, when that Evidence will be laid on the table?
 MR. GREGORY  said, that the question that the guardians should stand  in loco parentis
 MR. GREGORY  said, there had been a great number of discussions on the subject in that House, and in a vast number of unions in Ireland the guardians had been brought into collision with the central Board, in consequence of the present state of the law. The legal decisions to
 118
 MR. MONSELL  said, he hoped the compromise offered by the Chief Secretary would be adopted by the Committee. The Irish Members felt that they had been fighting against the individual opinion of the right hon. Baronet. It was not to be supposed that the rest of the Government, all of whom, including the noble Viscount himself, had in 1860 voted for the limit of twelve years, had had any reason to change their opinion. They must have simply desired to support their colleague, although his knowledge of Ireland was not so great that they should be governed by his mere  ipse dixit
 MR. MONSELL  said, he was afraid he could not entirely concur with his right hon. Friend who had just spoken. No doubt in many unions the guardians did
 96
 MR. MONSELL  said, he could not understand how extending the age to twelve would be extending the powers of boards of guardians to grant outdoor relief. That power they had now in some cases, but how a discretionary power to send
 108
 MR. MONSELL  remarked, that the House unanimously decided two evenings since that the English guardians should have the power of sending children to institutions up to the age of sixteen, He
 99
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, he would admit that it was preferable that children should be brought up out of the workhouse; but he did not wish to interfere with the discretion of the guardians, or with their power to apply that sort of workhouse test to mothers who might be anxious to abandon their children.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  observed, that the Amendment did not make it at all compulsory on boards of guardians to extend outdoor relief to children of twelve years old. They were only allowed to do so; and he did not think the power would be abused.
 SIR BALDWIN LEIGHTON  said, that the experience of England had been against outdoor nursing. If it were made compulsory, children would often, in point of fact, be nursed by their own mothers or near relatives at the expense of the union.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, that the Report of the Commissioners stated that the mortality among children under two years of age must be great, whether they were brought up within or without the workhouse. If the Amendment was adopted, how was the expense to which it would give rise to be provided for?
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, the clause empowered the board of guardians to provide for the relief of any orphan or deserted child out of the workhouse, if they should think fit to do so, by "placing such child out at nurse or otherwise, according to their discretion." He objected to the words "or otherwise," which were not very intelligible, and he therefore would propose that they should be omitted. Their insertion might enable the board of guardians to send young children to institutions outside of the workhouses where large numbers were congregated together, so that the same evil would arise as if they were crowded together in the workhouse.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  observed, that the reason urged before the Committee upstairs for sending children out to nurse, was that it would be better for their health. When their nursing was over, they ought to come back to the workhouse. His objection to placing children in institutions was that they would not be under the control of the guardians.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, he could
 102
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  denied there was any analogy in the case of pauper children in Ireland and the  enfans trouvés
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, the Committee had lost five hours on a single question, which might have been disposed of in as many minutes. The poor rates were to be levied from the entire property of the kingdom, and were the Irish people to pay for the maintenance of orphans and deserted children in establishments, or, as it was avowed, in convents over which no control could be exercised by the State? The hon. Members on the Opposition benches had accepted the clause on the distinct understanding that the Chief Secretary for Ireland would not swerve from the period of "five" years. The right hon. Gentleman had since thrown over his friends and accepted "eight" years. Could the right hon. Gentleman expect to carry on the Government of Ireland in that shilly-shallying manner? Let the Committee have one single line of policy before it. There were now great doubts whether the Bill would pass or not. The Committee had abandoned the Poor Law, and had now no single principle to guide them. The Chief Secretary had been the sole cause of the obstruction, and he (Sir E. Grogan) would, for one, be no party to the compromise that had been agreed to.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, the question before the Committee simply was, whether they were, or were not, to repeal the law of the land which made the country Protestant. The law of the land declared that, where the religion of the parents was not known, the children, if de-
 117 "I am of opinion that the guardians in such a case as as this should cause the child to be educated in the religious creed of Protestantism, the religion of the State."
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, he objected to the omission of the clause, and would move, that the Chairman should report progress.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  utterly denied that the law of the land presumed that every deserted child was of the religion of the State. The law presumed that to be the case, which was the most probable, unless the contrary were proved. It was, of course, among the poorer classes that the desertions of children most frequently occurred; and as in Ireland the great majority of the poorer classes wore Roman Catholics, the presumption, in most cases, would be that a deserted child was of the Roman Catholic religion.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, his own argument was in reality strengthened by the case cited by the hon. Member for Dublin; for, by a report of the case, it appeared that the court discharged the conditional order for a  mandamus
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, they would never get on with business if they went on in that way. It was now, too late to discuss these famous words "or otherwise." He trusted the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland would make no reply to the objections that had again been urged.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had no objection to report progress now.
 SIR GEOERE GREY  in reply said, he had written to the coroner to ascertain why no inquests had been held, and the reply was that there were very few survivors, he believed six, and that they had all left Pembrokeshire before the bodies of those who had been drowned were washed ashore; and as no evidence could be submitted to a jury beyond the fact of the bodies having been found, it was not thought worth while to empannel a jury to verify that which was a notorious fact. With regard to an official inquiry, he believed that among the six survivors, there was no one qualified to give an, opinion as to the management of a ship.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that every explanation would be given at the proper time; but the Chairman had decided that the subject was foreign to the Motion before the Committee. He thought the most convenient course they could take would be to adopt the Amendment, and then to discuss the clause in its completed form.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he would admit, that if the construction to which the noble Lord had called attention were the true construction, it would very much distort the Bill. He thought, however, that it was obvious such was not the case, because if the limit of five years was maintained, the provisions of the English Bill, to which reference had been made, could not possibly apply to children under the clause. If those provisions were covertly extended to Ireland by the clause, he thought it would be an unworthy mode of proceeding; but if that were the case, it would be necessary to insert clauses to give boards of guardians complete control over the establishments to which children might be sent. He was not prepared to say that the words "or otherwise" might not allow children to be sent to other places than to private families. But the whole importance of those words depended upon the preliminary question what should be the age beyond which children should not be sent out of the workhouse. If the age was limited to five years, there could be no danger; but if extended to twelve, then these words would want explanation by additional clauses.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that it was impossible on that occasion to deal with a phrase which had already been passed. On the report, however, it would be quite competent for any hon. Member to move the omission of the words "or otherwise," and the extension of the term. Of course, he gave no opinion as to the propriety of such a course.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he had no doubt, that if the words were retained, there would be no want of institutions such as those to which the hon. Member (Mr. Maguire) had referred, and that a new crop of poorhouses would spring up in Ireland.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he hoped the Committee would proceed on some more rational principle than that which seemed to have actuated the framers of this clause. Let them, for a moment, discard all question of Roman Catholic and Protestant. He had a great respect for the Select Committee which sat upon the subject; but anything so extraordinary as the conclusion at which they had arrived in point of principle he never heard. The clause said that a deserted child should be brought up in the religion of the person, whoever he might be—perhaps a tourist—that took him to the workhouse. He thought that proposition altogether irrational, and he trusted the Committee would not adopt it. He concurred in this, that where they had not the parents or surviving parent they should adopt the guardian or guardians of the child, or, if there were no guardians, the godfather or godmother for the purpose of determining in what religion the child should be brought up. In absence of these the Government might step in; but what he would propose was that the guardians of the district should  pro hâc vice
 SIR. JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he was quite sure that it was not the intention of his hon. Friend who moved that the Chairman leave the chair to put an end to the Bill.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he hoped the arrangement which he had proposed would be acceded to, now that the sense of the Committee had been twice taken.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he would suggest that the clause under discussion should be adopted before progress was reported. He proposed to strike out the following clause, and at its next sitting, therefore, the Committee would, if his suggestion were acceeded to, proceed with the consideration of Clause 12.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, no doubt the law of the land was that which had been stated by the hon. and learned Gentleman; but still it had never been enforced, and could not be enforced. The question was undoubtedly a very difficult one. The Government, however, had, in making the proposal on which the right hon. Gentleman animadverted, submitted to the House what they deemed to be the best solution of it. He might further observe that the right hon. Gentleman need not be apprehensive that any child would be registered as a Mahomedan, inasmuch as there was no member of that persuasion in the police force in Ireland; nor did he think it could be justly imputed to the force that it contained men who would be ready to change their religion to suit the views of the Government of the day. The clause had been adopted on the recommendation of the Select Committee, and therefore he hoped it would be retained.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he hoped that the hon. Gentleman would not press his Motion. After seven hours' discussion they had got through two important clauses, and there was no reason why they should not continue the consideration of the Bill.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that although he believed five to be the age up to which children should be put out in the manner proposed by the Bill, he should be sorry to run the risk of having the measure, which was likely to do so much good if passed, destroyed after all the pains that had been bestowed upon it. He was therefore willing to agree to an honourable compromise in the matter; and as the College of Physicians had expressed an opinion in favour of the age being extended, that afforded him an opportunity of making a concession, which he did most freely. He was prepared to yield to what appeared to be the sense of the
 113
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  observed, that though the hon. Gentleman stated that the words "or otherwise" were introduced into the Bill by a sort of side-wind, they had from the commencement formed part of the Bill as printed, which had been upon the table of the House for some time. He had acted, as he thought, fairly between the two great religious parties in Ireland, and he disclaimed the notion of pandering to the feelings either of one class or of the other. He thought the provision was a wise one to adopt in reference to children up to five years of age, and it was not proposed for educational purposes, but for sanitary purposes only. As for making use of the Poor Law for the object of preparing the way for the establishment of Roman Catholic orphan asylums in Ireland, he disclaimed any such intention, and he was willing to accept the entire responsibility of the clause. With regard to the larger question which the noble Lord stated was raised by the retention of the words, he should be prepared to meet it when the proper time arrived for its discussion. The provision adopted in respect to England, to which allusion had been made, had reference to the education of pauper children up to fourteen years of age, and was entirely different in principle from the enactment in the present Bill, which provided for the relief of children not more than five years old out of the workhouse, on sanitary grounds only. He was willing to agree to the Amendment moved by the hon. Member for the county of Cork.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he believed there were excellent institutions in the north of Ireland and elsewhere, to which it was desirable that the board of guardians should have the discretionary power of sending children up to five years of age, not exactly to be nursed, but to be taken care of. It was therefore desirable, with that view, to retain the words "or otherwise."
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  replied that he had received no such communication.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, the question was, whether it should be five years or twelve years. Whatever the Committee determined upon, he was determined to adhere to five years.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, the very fact of his having introduced the limit of five years into the Bill was conclusive proof that he had no such intention as that attributed to him by his right hon. Friend opposite. The Bill had lain upon the table of the House since the beginning of the Session, and no question had been raised. The words were also contained in the Bill of 1860. The words were originally introduced in consequence of the recommendation of the noble Lord to extend the age from two or three years.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he felt compelled to oppose the Amendment. The Committee agreed to the age of twelve years by a majority of only one. He was strongly in favour of the age of five years, which answered every sanitary purpose, and after that period the child would get an excellent education in the workhouse school. In enacting that children up to the age of five years might be put out to nurse, "or otherwise," he intended no reference to the establishment of institutions for children throughout Ireland; but he merely used the words because the phrase "to nurse" might be supposed to mean that the child was actually at the breast, and children five years old could hardly be expected to be in that position. Up to one or two years they would be at the breast, and then they would be taken care of until they attained the age of five.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, it was impossible to agree to the Amendment, as it would clearly lead to a great sacrifice of human life.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, in reply, that he was sorry to find that the right hon. and learned Gentleman was not well acquainted with the rules of the National Board. If he referred to Rules 12, 14, and 16, he would find that they permitted the use of prayer at the opening of the school and during school hours, after the ordinary school business was closed. The managers of the schools were not required to exclude children during the time of prayer, but all the children had full power, by the intimation of the wish of their parents and guardians, to withdraw from it.
 SIR EGBERT PEEL  said, he had already stated that the school could be opened and closed with, prayer, and the Ten Commandments might be posted in the schoolroom.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, the Government had sent down ten extra policemen to the locality where Mr. Thiebault was assassinated. The estimated cost of each man was £35 per annum, payable in advance. As long as these men were stationed there, the cost of their maintenance would be charged on the townlands in the vicinity; but of course the townland of Rockville would not be charged, because it was the property of the brother of the murdered man.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : These disputes are between different States of Affghanistan; and I do not apprehend there is any reason for Her Majesty's Government interfering in them. If the security of India is threatened with any invasion from Affghanistan, then the Government of India will take such measures as the circumstances render necessary.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I have no doubt, if Captain Gower applied for permission to visit the French arsenals and dockyards, no difficulty would be thrown in his way, and that every facility would be given to him. But am not aware that any such document as that alluded to by the hon. Member has been given to Lord Cowley.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : There can be no objection, Sir, to laying on the table of the House a Return of the number of Iron-cased Vessels built and building, or in course of conversion, for the use of Her Majesty's Navy, when they were launched or when they were expected to be launched, as far as the
 91
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the present arrangement for competitive examinations was this—that the candidates for each examination were in the first place examined upon a standard test, to see whether they had what might be called a  minimum
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he thought it was usual not to sit on the next Wednesday, and therefore they would adjourn from Tuesday to Thursday. There would then be only one remaining day before Whitsuntide, and that was usually more a Volunteer day than anything else. He should propose, therefore, that the House adjourn from Thursday the 5th to Thursday the 12th of June.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that would depend upon the discretion of the head of the department where the vacancy occurred. If there was reason to think that they were well qualified, although not so qualified as the one who had gained the first place, they might be allowed a second trial, but they had no right to claim it.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, in reply, that the relations between the British Government and that of the Shah of Persia, with regard to Affghanistan, are regulated by the Treaty concluded between Great Britain and Persia in March 1857, on the conclusion of the war. By that Treaty the Shah of Persia engaged to abstain from
 89
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that allusion having been made to the members of the Government, and especially to himself, he must observe that he had not a very distinct recollection of what passed on that subject in 1860. But the opinion he had formed that night was founded upon the arguments which he had heard on both sides of the question; and certainly, after the speech of the noble Lord the Member for Mayo (Lord J. Browne), he must think the decision of the Committee with respect to the difference between the ages of five and twelve was quite right.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that his right hon. Friend had by no means abandoned the principle he had laid down. He had departed from the strict principle of the Poor Law, for the purpose of preserving the lives of the children. It was exactly on that ground that his right hon. Friend had agreed to make eight years, not the general rule, but the exception to
 116
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, it had been decided that some experiment should be made to test the power of the gun, but nothing had been decided as to the precise nature of the experiment.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : I cannot say whether Dr. Farr has been consulted upon this estimate, nor did I know that he was an authority upon military statistics. No doubt there will be many different estimates. I have given to the House that which I have obtained from the War Office, and which is certainly not a fanciful estimate. Confining ourselves, however, to the limited question which the hon, and gallant General has brought before the House, it would require about £494,290 to pay to 384 lieutenant colonels the difference between the value of a majority and that of a lieutenant-colonelcy, if they received it at once. Taking it for granted that each officer would, before selling, become entitled to the full value, £17,900 must be added, which would make the total £512,190. These are the most material parts of the financial view of the question. I merely state the facts, and leave the House to form its own judgment as to the conclusion which is to be drawn from them. Beyond this there are certain practical advantages, the possession of which by the system of purchase cannot be denied, however much it may be denounced in theory. One of the most prominent of these is the youth of the officers. It will be universally admitted that a system of purchase clears away officers in the higher grades, and secures to our army, upon the whole, a younger, more efficient, and more active class of officers than can be obtained in any army in which seniority is the only rule of promotion. As to what the hon. and gallant General said with reference to a system of purchase giving a monopoly to the aristocratic class, it is rather difficult to find out what is meant by the aristocracy in this country; but if by "the aristocratic class" he means the Members of the House of Lords and their relations, I apprehend that any one who turns over the pages of the  Army List 203 esprit de corps 204 "Selection is governed by the following regulations:—Inspectors general are appointed for every branch of the service; they are specially named for this duty, and are not the officers who command the district. These inspectors receive a printed form of instructions before they commence their annual tour of inspection, When an inspector general has inspected a regiment, the commanding officer of the regiment presents to him his list of officers for promotion; the inspector general examines these officers, and selects those whom he considers most fit; he then prepares a confidential report, and transmits it to the Minister of War. When all the inspections are finished, the inspectors meet in committee, review the names in these several reports, and from among them prepare a list for the Minister. The Minister promotes them in rotation, or not, as he thinks best." "In imitation of the French system, it may be suggested that special inspectors should be appointed to visit and examine the regiments, and that all promotion should be based upon a careful consideration of their reports. Such a scheme could hardly be applied to the British army. Inspectors could not be sent annually from the Horse Guards to visit regiments dispersed from Canada to Australia." 205 "The strict adherence to the rule of promotion by seniority has led to the adoption of a practice which is permitted by the authorities, though not sanctioned by law, and which produces, as regards retirement, a result somewhat similar to the sale of commissions." "The officers of a regiment subscribe among themselves, and make up a purse to induce a
 206
 GENERAL PEEL : Sir, if I agreed, which I do not, with the recommendations of the Commissioners, I should object to this House being called on to give any opinion or to exercise any influence with regard to a matter purely relating to the command and discipline of the army. In that view
 207 208 "There may be unfairness in selection, but one has a right to expect that men in a high station would select proper and fitting men. Men who are passed over at any time may not like it, but still I think that the principle of selection would give less pain and less cause for regret and displeasure on the part of the individual than being purchased over." "We consider that the system of selection would be highly prejudicial to the efficiency of the army. I should be sorry to see the system of selection introduced under any circumstances in this country. I think it would lead to great abuse." "I think that the system of selection would be decidedly not so popular in the army as that of purchase; that it could not be carried out; and that it would be a very onerous duty upon those who would have to select." "Who was surprised at a party in England wishing to alter our system, and to do away with purchase. He had never seen any infantry to equal the British." 209 210
 COLONEL NORTH  observed, that all appointments in the higher grades must necessarily to a certain extent be made at haphazard. Still, from the confidential reports made after the half-yearly inspection, the Horse Guards was thoroughly informed as to the efficiency of majors of regiments. In a former debate on that subject, the practice of exchanges was relied on as an argument to show that under the present system an officer was brought from one regiment and put over the heads of those in another; but it would be impossible, without the destruction of the prospects of many officers, to do away with exchanges. One regiment had to do duty in various climates, and their removal from one climate to another was often very rapid. During the Russian war, troops were sent from the Cape of Good Hope to the Crimea, and at the close of that war they were sent to India to assist in putting down the mutiny. On a former occasion the hon. and gallant General put the case of an officer without money or friends, and asked what chance of promotion he had under the purchase system. But what chance would such an officer have under the system of selection? The noble Lord at the head of the Government had, on a previous occasion, stated that merit was only the opinion which one man formed of another, that any opinion was sure to be disputed, and that it was a utopian idea to suppose that under any system individuals could be selected on account of merit alone. That
 211
 LORD STANLEY : Sir, as I was a member of the Commission of 1856, and the only member of it, excepting the hon, and gallant Gentleman beside me, who is now present in the House, I think if I were to let this Motion pass in silence, I should lay myself open to misconstruction, and I therefore feel bound to support, and, as far as I can, to defend, the opinions expressed in that Report; opinions which all my subsequent reflection and observation have only tended to confirm. I will begin by vindicating what I think is quite as important a subject as the organization of the army—I mean the rights of this House—against the doctrine put forward by my right hon. and gallant Friend (General Peel). I dare say he did what we are all apt to do—use words conveying a little more than he really meant to convey. My right hon. and gallant Friend said, in effect, that this was a question affecting the command and discipline of the army, and that therefore, on constitutional grounds, he was sorry it should be discussed in this House. Now, I have always been under the impression that this House found the supplies by which the army is supported, and I cannot conceive upon what principle it can he contended that we, who have to vote the number of men, who have a right to discuss the Army Estimates vote by vote, and who are bound to our constituents and the public to see that those estimates are properly and efficiently appropriated—I do not see how it can be contended that we have no right to deal with questions upon which the economy and the efficiency of the army may in a great degree depend. As to the speech of the right hon. Baronet the Minister of War, I heard it with some pleasure and also with some regret. I observed with pleasure, that while he submitted to the House some defence of the purchase system, very much as though he was staling what had been supplied to him by the department which he officially represents, he carefully avoided commiting himself to any general approbation of that system. On the other hand, I noticed with regret that the whole tenour of his speech seemed to be what one not unfrequently hears from the Ministerial Bench, but what one regrets to hear from a Minister of acknowledged capacity—an apology for doing nothing. The right hon. Gentleman spoke of the departmental diffi-
 212 213 "An officer in the 55th had been promoted for service in the field, and had obtained his brevet majority. he led the assault at Chinkiang-foo, and though he became brevet lieutenant colonel, and was in command of the regiment in the field, in the presence of the enemy, a young captain who had just come out purchased over his head, and he was obliged to descend to the command of a company." 214 s 215 "There is always pain felt if one man gets over the head of another by means of mere money." 216 217 218
 COLONEL DICKSON , in rising to call the attention of the Chief Secretary for Ireland to certain murders lately committed in Ireland, and to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the organization, equipment, and employment of the Irish Constabulary, said, he trusted he should not be understood as being influenced in any degree by a spirit of hostility to a body of men whose conduct and discipline had invariably been above all praise, and who, he believed, under more favourable circumstances, would most efficiently perform the important duties for which they were enrolled. His sole object was to draw the attention of the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary and the
 222 223 Dublin Evening Mail 224 225
 LORD STANLEY  seconded the Motion.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : Sir, as my lion, and gallant Friend, owing to the state of his health, which we must all regret, was unable to make his remarks generally audible throughout the House, perhaps it will be convenient if I state the precise nature and grounds of the Motion. I shall, of course, endeavour to do so with perfect fairness. The House is doubtless aware that a Commission was issued some years ago to inquire into the system of purchase and sale of commissions in the army. That Commission was composed of the most eminent and competent Members, including, among others, the Duke of Somerset, the noble Lord the Member for King's
 200 201 "As a member of the Commission, he has the honour to state that he has deemed it a duty to sign the Report decided on by the Commissioners, because he fully concurs in the recommendations, as far as they go, which it contains. But, as the evidence adduced has strengthened the convictions which he previously held on the subject, and as he believes that some additional measures may with advantage to the public be adopted, having for their object a more early termination of the system of sale and purchase of commissions in the army than is provided for in this Report, he will feel it his duty to transmit, as soon as practicable, to the office of the Commission a representation of his humble opinions to this effect." 202
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, that an Act such as that described by the hon. Member was passed by the Legislature of New South Wales a short time ago; it was assented to by the Governor, and had been left to its operation. With respect to the latter part of the hon. Gentleman's question, they had had no report at the Colonial Office of such a proceeding on the part of the Parliament of New South Wales. He might add that his noble Friend at the head of the Colonial Office was fully aware of the objectionable nature of this legislation under ordinary circumstances; but he was aware that an Act very similar had been in operation for many years in the neighbouring Colony of Victoria, that law having been enacted under the old constitution. He also knew that there was a strong feeling in New South Wales against increasing the number of Chinese males in Australia, there being scarcely any Chinese women in the country, and the Chinese in the Colony amounted to 21,000, or about one-fourth of the adult male population. Under these circumstances, Her Majesty's Government would not advise the Crown to disallow the Act; but the Secretary of State had advised the Colonial Government to relax the stringency of the provision in cases where the Chinese immigrants were accompanied by their wives and families.
 MR. LAIRD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, If the War Office has decided that the Horsfall Monster Gun shall be tested against the  Warrior
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he
 195
 MR. MARSH  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether an Act has been passed by the Legislature of New South Wales imposing a fine of £10 on every Chinese landed in the Colony, and an annual Poll Tax of £4 on every Chinese resident there, and enacting other penalties against them; whether Her Majesty has been advised to withhold Her consent from such Act; and whether he is aware that previous to the passing of this Act a Select Committee of the Legislative Council of New South Wales had, after examining witnesses, made a Report wholly and entirely acquitting the Chinese residing in the Colony of the charges and imputations which had been made against them?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  replied, that with regard to the last part of the question of his hon. Friend, as to whether Companies which had obtained Acts of Parliament to construct Electric Telegraphs would be subject to future legislation, he believed that none of the Acts contained such a clause; but some of them, he believed about one-half, had a clause which gave to Parliament a power of limited interference at the end of ten years. He had a copy of the clause, which stated—
 "That at any time after the expiration of ten years from the passing of this Act the regulations of the Company with regard to the transmission of messages and the opening of streets shall be subject to a revision of Parliament; and Parliament shall then require and enforce the adoption and performance by the Companies of such modified or other regulations as aforesaid as shall be deemed necessary for the protection and convenience of the public."
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, that the people of Ireland were much indebted to the hon. and gallant Member who had brought forward the subject.
 COLONEL SYKES  was understood to say, that they had already gained sufficient experience of the working of the non-purchase system in some divisions of the army. What necessity was there, therefore, to decline carrying out the recommendation of the Commissioners? The Indian army was an example of the working of a system of promotion without purchase, as up to 1832 the practice of Indian officers making a purse to induce their seniors to retire was unknown and unrecognised. As to interference of the House in matters connected with the army, which had been deprecated, he should justify it upon the ground that they voted the supplies, and passed the Mutiny Act. It was said that the purchase system brought out young men at the head of the army, but he regarded that as a disadvantage rather than a benefit.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  was understood to intimate a doubt whether this estimate would meet with the sanction of Dr. Farr.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, that although the Motion which he should beg leave to submit was of limited scope, applying only to one rank, it would be admitted to be of no inconsiderable importance. It had, in fact, for its object to adopt the principle of selection in the appointment to the command of regiments, and that those selections should be made upon the responsibility of the Commander-in-Chief for the time being. When he last had the honour of alluding to the question of the sale and purchase of military commissions, a declaration was made by the late Lord Herbert to the effect that Her Majesty's Government had already determined on adopting, with as little delay as practicable, the alteration actually proposed in the present Motion. That promise was subsequently frequently repeated—but yet remained without result. He had now by his Motion to invite the noble Viscount at the head of the Government to fulfil those promises. The illustrious Prince in command of the army, though the great supporter of the purchase system, had admitted in his evidence that the efficiency of a regiment depended "entirely" on the "efficiency and ability" of its commanding officer, and that the post of regimental commander was therefore one of great importance. Her Majesty's  Book of Regulations for the Army "An officer intrusted with the command of a regiment is invested with authority which renders him responsible to his Sovereign and his country for the maintenance of discipline, order, and a proper system of economy in his corps; he is to
 197 "If the purchase system interferes thus injuriously with the appointments to the command of regiments, it must indirectly affect all the higher ranks of the army. Whenever the responsible advisers of the Crown are obliged to prepare for the contingencies of war, and to recommend Her Majesty to name a commander for her army in the field, they must necessarily select from among those who have obtained high rank in the army. The great majority of these officers, however, will have risen by purchase, obtaining their rank, not from any acknowledged fitness, but from the current of promotion and the opportunities of buying advancement. This country will therefore commence the operations of war under a disadvantage, compared with foreign States, where all the officers in the higher grades will have been subjected to several selections, and may therefore, if the power of selection has been honestly and wisely exercised, be all men of known efficiency and merit." 198 199
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said: The
 219 220 221 in dubio siste
 MR. HEYGATE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is the intention of the Government to take any further steps with reference to the collection of Agricultural Statistics?
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that the importance of the subject to which the Bill referred was universally admitted, and it was no longer incumbent upon him to demonstrate the utility of a measure which would give certainty and security of title, which would aim at perpetuating those advantages, and which would simplify and facilitate the transfer of real property. The House and the country were fully impressed with the magnitude of the evils which undoubtedly existed under the present system. Those evils might be stated in a few words. Under a complicated system of real property law which had grown up in this country, every vendor was under the necessity of deducing from a great variety of instruments a title which to be safe could not be for less than sixty years. The deeds were first examined by his solicitor, and the title perfected. An abstract was then delivered to the purchaser, and some practised conveyancer, was employed to see what possible holes and flaws could be found. The same process was gone through every time any fragment of the property was sold, and the House could easily understand that the expense entailed was considerable. It was true that a purchaser might now and then, be found who would dispense with the investigation, but it was a common saying in the Court of Chancery that a "willing purchaser" meant an unlimited amount of litigation. The great points which in all the Bills which had come before the House had been aimed at as remedying these evils were two—first, to find some means by which a title once established should be deemed good for ever; second, to make such a record of the title, first ascertained and granted either absolutely or subject to certain qualifications, as should for the future facilitate its transfer, give certainty to dealings with it, and preserve it in a position of safety, certainty, and security. It was not difficult to judge of the practi-
 239 240 241 242 243 244 245
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that in the case of a purchaser such a deed would be as if it had not been executed, but it would be binding as between the parties if the lands were not sold.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the views of his hon. and learned Friend who had just sat down were, to say the least, rather singular. At the same time, there was no Member of the House whose opinion was better entitled to attention than that of his hon. and learned Friend on such a subject. He (the Attorney General) congratulated himself that in differing from his hon. and learned Friend he was in agreement with preceding speakers. Little or no reference had been made, before the last speech, to the evils which it was proposed by the Bill to remedy. His hon. and learned Friend had spoken lightly of those evils; but in that view the community at large did not agree. Although the details of the measure necessarily involved a considerable degree of technicality, the people of this country, likely to be affected by it as owners or lessees of land, had long been of opinion that the expense, the delay, the uncertainty attending the dealings with land, amounted to a great practical evil, which required removal, Then, was the plan propounded likely to effect a remedy for the evil, either complete, or as nearly complete
 257 258 259
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  denied that he admitted it to be a registry of assurances.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  intimated that he bad no objection to the Motion, stating that there was no difference in substance between the present measure and one introduced by the Lord Chancellor. He took the opportunity of adverting to a suggestion made in reference to the Bill last under consideration, and which applied likewise to the present Bill —namely, that it should be referred to a Select Committee. He was quite sure that that suggestion was made  bonâ fide
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he thought it quite obvious that the Bill could not have concurrent operation with the Government Bill; but as there would be ample opportunity of considering its provisions at a future stage, he did not intend to oppose the second reading.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL , in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, its object was to extend the Statute of Limitations, and to shorten the time within which an absolute title would grow up to thirty years. It appeared to him, that if a tenant for life of an estate sold it for a valuable consideration, the purchaser would, under the Bill, shut out the reversioner after thirty years. As, however, the measure came down from the other House on the high authority of Lord St. Leonards, he had consented to move the second reading.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the Bill applied exclusively to Ireland, where, since the reign of Queen Anne, a general registry had been kept of all deeds of assurance relating to landed property. Some inconveniences mid abuses had grown up under the existing statute on the subject, and they had to consider the proper mode of providing a remedy for them. In some points the statute was almost a dead letter, and the mode of registry under it also depended a great deal on formalities. The
 266 267 "The importance of the communication made by the Chief Justice could scarcely be overrated, when it was known that out of 34,000 memorials, not taken consecutively, 1,100 were open to objection, and in an earlier part of the registry no error or omission which could be made, had not been made to render the registration nugatory." 268 269
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, it was considered by the Government that the measure would effect a great improvement in Ireland in regard to the subject-matter of it, and that therefore it ought to be passed this Session. But as the hon. Members for Ireland, who were, of course, the best judges of their own interest, having considered the evil on the one hand, and the effect of delay on the other, were satisfied that it was more for the benefit of Ireland that the Register Office should go on in its present state for another year, the Government would not oppose that
 273
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, that from ten years' experience of the working of the South Wales Act he was enabled to say that the system had worked well, and had given general satisfaction. Many of the mountain tracks referred to by the hon. Gentleman had been improved, and generally the roads were put in a better condition than they were under the old system.
 MR. HARDY  thought it only fair that he should hear some of the brunt of adverse comment which had been directed against that measure. So far from the Bill deserving the strong language which had been used against it, he believed that it would not only improve, but cheapen the roads. Good roads were in themselves cheap; for they tended to save horses and carts to a degree of which many persons seemed to have no conception. As to putting a new tax on the tenant, there was not the least ground for the assertion.
 MR. HARDY  said, the sudden change could only amount to three tenpenny rates, and to that amount the tenants were liable at present. If a parish had neglected its roads the rates might at first be high; but he did not think that would be an evil. A fallacy seemed to have pervaded the arguments against the Bill. The roads were not made for the parishes through which they passed, but for the public at large. At present, there was no audit of the surveyors' accounts; but under the Bill there would be an audit, and an efficient one. He did not altogether approve of the Bill, for he would have made it compulsory. He believed the magistrates would only put it; in operation where it was required; and both the ratepayers and the public would derive great benefit from it.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he would move that the House go into Committee on the Bill.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that the number of bullets fired into the Volunteer butts was so large that the practice prevailed among boys and others to disturb the soil, in order to get at the bullets. Much injury to the butts was caused by these trespassers; and as the criminal law did not reach the offence, he wished to propose an additional clause, imposing, on summary conviction, a penalty not exceeding £5 for the offence.
 MR. DUNLOP  said, that in Scotland, where a system of registration had existed for 200 years, and where great value was attached to the additional security it gave, much surprise was felt at the difficulty which was experienced in introducing that system into England. He believed that the advantages of the present Bill would be so great that in a short time all the prejudice against it would be removed.
 MR. NEWDEGATE : The hon. Member is misrepresenting me. I said by creating
 277
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, in the constituency which he represented there was but one feeling in regard to the subject, and that was that the proposed intervention of justices in the highway boards was but a means of superseding the legitimately-expressed voice of the ratepayers. He regretted to hear hon. Gentlemen representing a large town argue in favour of that invasion of the corporate privileges of the country parishes. The House, it appeared, was about to pass a Bill which was calculated to create the greatest discontent throughout the whole of the counties in England. Let them not flatter themselves
 276
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, that Her Majesty's Government had received no information on the subject except that which had appeared in the public papers.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he was far from intending to oppose the Second Reading of the Bill, which related to matters of deep interest to all who were concerned in land. The subject was also one which had long been an object of attention to lawyers and others who took an interest in the law of landed property, and he rejoiced to see—if, indeed, they might be permitted to say they could see—a hope that through the introduction of this Bill, at least a step might be taken towards attaining the object in view. But there were so many objections to the Bill, that until it had undergone the revision of a Select Committee, or at least until it had been considered and thoroughly investigated in all its parts by a Committee of the Whole House, it would be impossible he could assent even to the substance of the measure. In order to appreciate the provisions of this Bill, or, indeed, accurately
 252 253 254
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he would take that opportunity of asking the right hon. Gentleman, Whether it was true that the Governor General of Canada had taken upon himself to dissolve the Canadian Parliament without consulting Her Majesty's Government?
 MR. G. W. BENTINCK  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for the Homo Department, Whether he has received information of the delay of the Chief Constable of East Suffolk in attending to a complaint respecting his Chief Superintendent in October last; and whether he intends, in consequence, to issue any rules for the guidance of Chief Constables in cases of complaints against their subordinates, and for the prevention of errors of judgment, and of delays consequent thereon, in future?
 MR. THOMPSON  said, that although that Bill had been very handsomely abused in that House, the number of petitions that had been presented against it were few, and indicated a great falling-off as compared with the number presented in 1860 and 1861 against a similar measure. As to the supposed addition which the measure would entail to the taxation of the country, he had taken the opinion of some of the best surveyors in his neighbourhood, and one of them said that he would keep the roads in his district in repair for £100 a year less than they now cost. Other gentlemen having practical knowledge bore their testimony with equal emphasis in favour of the theory that the division of the country into districts each sufficient to occupy the whole time of an experienced person would really be an economical proceeding. He must also deny that the Bill would sever the connection between taxation and representation. It only applied to the highways of the country that principle of union and co-operation which had produced most of the great improvements of the age.
 MR. FREELAND  feared that it was too late to do more than enter his emphatic and deliberate protest against the passing of this wretched Highways Bill. By delegating to an irresponsible body the option of imposing a new system involving local taxation on their respective counties without being bound to consult the ratepayers, he thought that the Government had struck a blow at a principle that every Liberal ought to hold sacred, the principle that taxation and representation should go together. The Committee had been chosen exclusively from among those who approved of the principle of the measure, though it was difficult to say what that principle was; yet when this happy and united family got into a committee-room upstairs they divided, as he found from a Return which he held in his hand, no less than ten times on the clauses.
 274
 MR. GEORGE  said, he objected to any summary disposal of a Bill which proposed at one fell swoop to do away with Acts of Parliament from Queen Anne down to the present time, and to niter a system which on the whole had given great satisfaction in Ireland. At the same time, a large arrear of business had evidently accumulated, and it was necessary to expedite in some way the business of the office. He did not see why the Landed Estates Court should be selected for the registration of all estates; and the better course, he thought, would be to send the Bill to a Select Committee, in order to ascertain the best mode of dealing with the whole question.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he would withdraw his Motion.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he hoped the Bill would be dropped altogether. It was the most important Bill which the Irish Government had introduced during the Session, and it was more difficult than all their other Bills put together. The right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary had not said a word upon the subject— perhaps for a very good reason—and there were none of the Irish law officers in the House to explain the law. One of the most accomplished and able members of the English bar had given an explanation, but not six hon. Members in the House understood it. Would it not be better to discuss the subject in the next year, when, perhaps, there might be some Irish law officers on the Treasury Bench? With the object of eliciting the opinion of the Government, he begged to move that the Bill be read a second time that day three months.
 MR. HASSARD  said, it was true that they had a registry in Ireland for 150 years, and they were anxious to make it as perfect as possible. They had not to find fault with it on principle, but in respect to matters of detail, the forms having become antiquated and incapable of being worked. He quite concurred in the necessity of some measure of the kind, but he hoped that the House would consent to refer the Bill to a Select Committee. The speech of the hon. and learned Member who had just addressed them was the best argument in favour of that course; for he was sure that no hon. Member who was not fully acquainted with the law relating to land in Ireland could possibly have followed the hon. and learned Gentleman in his observations, and the Solicitors' Society of Ireland had, after careful consideration, come to the conclusion that it was most dangerous that such
 270
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he rose to second the Motion, not with the wish that the second reading should not
 272
 MR. MALINS  said, he had always been a strenuous advocate for facilitating the transfer of land, and any practical measure introduced with that object would command his support. But he by no means agreed in opinion with his noble and learned Friend the Lord Chancellor, who believed that land could be made as easily transferable as stock, ships, or shares in public companies. If the Bill were not to become a dead letter, its operation must be compulsory; for it seemed to him irrational that patches here and there should be registered, while the great bulk of the land remained in its present condition. The Bill provided for the appointment of a single registrar, and an indefinite number of assistant registrars or clerks. But what were all the actions or Chancery suits in England compared to the number of titles which would have to be registered? Let any one take a walk from Oxford Street to Whitechapel, and see how many titles he would pass on the way. The great bulk of the landed property was either settled or else encumbered. In neither case could there well be a register of plain fee-simple titles. It was said that a man ought never to prophesy upon a subject with which he was not well acquainted, hut four years ago he ventured to prophesy, with regard to the Irish Landed Estates Court, that if its powers to grant declarations of title were not compulsory, they would be practically useless. He had received a letter from a gentleman, stating that since November,] 858, but nineteen declarations of title were made by that Court, and one refused. Though the Bill would entail considerable expense in its working, he would not oppose its further progress, but he felt the same objection to it that he had done to
 255 256
 MR. MORE O'FERRALL  said, there was a disposition on all hands to give a fair consideration to the Bill; but its complicated details could not be discussed by that House.
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, he did not think that the Bill was so much a matter of detail that it could not be dealt with in Committee of the Whole House. If it were referred to a Select Committee, there would be no legislation on the subject that Session. Hon. Members should recollect how many Select Committees were already sitting. He did not think there would be enough of Irish Members available for a Select Committee on the Bill. Seeing, however, the temper of the House, he was of opinion that the hon. and learned Gentleman had only one of two courses to adopt—either to drop the Bill, or to drop it more decorously by referring it to a Select Committee.
 MR WALPOLE  said, he had to present a petition from attorneys, solicitors, and proctors, praying that it might not be passed in its present shape, but that it be amended, so as to give effect to the recommendations of the Registration Commissioners of 1854 for establishing a system of registration of titles to land.
 MR. BRAMSTON  requested that the Bill might be postponed for a fortnight, in order that the parties interested might examine the map or plan at the Admiralty.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he wished to ask whether, if the Bill were read a second time, the Government would consent to refer it to a Select Committee? He would not now oppose the second reading, but would move, on a subsequent stage of the measure, unless the Government yielded to the wish of the Irish Members, that the Bill be referred to a Select Committee.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, the Bill was not fairly open to many of the objections made. It was not intended for the register of assurances, nor yet for the registration of titles. It was simply a Bill constituting the Court of Chancery the Encumbered Estates Court for England; though seeing that three judges were required to do the work in Ireland, at least a dozen Lord Chancellors would be requisite in England. Some of the clauses were borrowed from the Bill which he himself brought in, and which was read a second time in 1853.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he was perfectly prepared to consider the Bill either in a Select Committee, or in Committee of the Whole House, and he retained the opinion which he expressed some years ago, that the greatest of all misfortunes would be to pass a bad measure, because a bad measure, by its certain failure, would do more harm than good. They also had the authority of Lord West-bury, that an imperfect measure would be more mischievous than useful, and that by a combination of skill and courage they should deal with an intolerable evil undeterred by any superstitious terror of the alterations which might be required. In the words of Pope—
 "Thus Bethel spoke, who always speaks his thought, "And always thinks the very thing he ought." 251
 MR. BARROW  said, he objected to the principle of the Bill. He should have been more satisfied with the Bill if it had been made permissive. He objected to it, because it violated the principle that representation and taxation ought to go together, and put the taxation of the country too much under the control of the magistrates. One of the clauses provided that a magistrate whose act as a member of the board was appealed against, should not form one of the tribunal appealed to, but that would be very little protection to the ratepayers. He would move as an Amendment that the Bill be read a third time that day three months.
 SIR BALDWIN LEIGHTON  observed, that the power proposed to be given to the magistrates was not unprecedented, for at present the justices had to decide upon the erection of lunatic asylums. If
 275
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, he would admit that some legislation on the subject was indispensably necessary. The body of solicitors in Ireland, however, strongly objected to certain provisions of the Bill, but especially with regard to the omission as to negative search. He had no wish to throw difficulties in the way of the second reading; but he suggested that a Committee of the Whole House was the proper authority to enact rules and regulations upon the matters embraced in the Bill.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, there were two points in the Bill that would require very serious consideration.
 261
 SIR GEORGE GREY  moved that the Bill be read a third time.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he hoped the hon. Gentleman would defer to the very large majorities which had already affirmed the Bill, and that the House would not be put to the trouble of dividing. They had heard how beneficially a similar measure had operated in Wales, and he must repeat his belief, that so far from the system it proposed being expensive, it would, while improving the roads, also turn out to be an economical one.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the Correspondence on the table would inform the House what had been the answers received from the Chairmen of Quarter Sessions on the subject. There were some counties in which the magistrates were willing to have statistics collected by the police, but in the majority of counties it was objected to. It was not thought desirable to have them partially collected. An application had been made to the Registrar General as to whether he could devise a plan for the collection of those statistics, but no decision had as yet been come to on the subject.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that the matter had come under the cognizance of the Police Committee, who, he understood, had expressed an opinion on the subject; and thought that the Chief
 237
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, it was impossible to begin to discuss this Bill at midnight.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he believed the effect of the measure would be to enable a tenant for life to cut off the rights of the tenant in remainder, and put the money he received for the injury in his pocket. If the House thought that a desirable object, it would pass the present Bill, but not otherwise.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, the Bill was an admirable one; the only point in which it failed was in making the Court of Chancery the medium through which the declaration of title was to be obtained. The Judges of the court would certainly not be able to undertake the duty; and if it were left to conveyancers employed by them, the weight attaching to the authority of the court would no longer exist. Before the next stage of the Bill, he hoped the Government would reconsider their decision in reference to a Select Committee. Only one or two of the principal points had yet been pointed out, but at the proper time he would be able to show that in every clause of the Bill there was ample ground for referring it to a Select Com-
 264
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, that if so, it ought to be made to appear by the Bill that an unregistered deed was to be operative against those who had notice of it, and inoperative against those who had no notice of it. In every system of registration of deeds all these matters were to be provided for; and till they were it was impossible to understand the hearing or effect of any system. He would say no more on that point than that all the provisions of the Bill were in direct antagonism to the Report of the Commission. It would require very much more argument and consideration than the subject had yet received to convince the House that the Report of a Commission on which they had once acted was entirely misconceived, and that in place of that which it recommended they were to have, not only a registration, but a most imperfect registration of deeds. His objections were not made to oppose the second reading of the Bill; but he hoped the Government would consent to large amendments on the next stage. It was a trite observation that a bad system well administered might be preferable to a good system badly administered. And his next objection was, that whether the proposed system proved bad or good depended entirely on the officers by whom it was administered. What did the Bill say on that point? It proposed to appoint a registrar, who was to be a barrister of a certain number of years' standing. He would have brought before him questions of the greatest difficulty, involving the nicest points of equity that could ever be presented to a Court to decide. Yet, on looking at the clauses, he found that the registrar himself was to be the sole judge, decider, and arbiter as to whether he was to adjudicate on anything or not. He might say he would decide all the questions before him, or he might resolve
 248 249 250
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he was so anxious to see the first step taken for the amendment of the law of real property, and he entertained so lively a recollection of the candid assistance which he received from the noble and learned Lord now on the Woolsack when he, as Solicitor General, introduced a measure on the subject, that he should be willing to place in abeyance his own judgment in regard to the details of the present measure. In making, therefore, a few observations, he trusted his hon. and learned Friend would accept them in the spirit in which they were offered, because, although he differed in regard to one or two of the principles on which the Bill was framed, he should be sorry to give any opposition to the second reading, or to offer any delay or obstruction to the progress of the Bill. he would then submit to the House and the Government the two principal objections he had to urge to the measure. Upon one point he had already been anticipated by the hon. and learned Solicitor General, who felt he had to deal with the difficulty that the Bill was in one respect in direct antagonism to the Royal Commission, of which the right, hon. Gentleman in the chair was one of the most prominent members. That Commission, which reported in 1854, considered the question of a registry of assurances, which was sometimes called a registry of
 246 précis 247
 MR. ROLT  said, he did not rise to oppose the second reading of the Bill, but he was anxious to add his voice to that of his hon. and learned Friend in favour of referring it to a Select Committee. It was impossible to offer an objection to the second reading of a Bill brought in by the Government, the principle of which had been recommended by a Royal Commission appointed on the suggestion of a Committee of the House of Commons.
 MR. ROLT  said, that the thinness of the attendance was a proof that the measure was not receiving the attention that its importance deserved. In consenting to the second reading, he desired to affirm no more than the desirableness of establishing a registry of titles. He was, however, anxious that the Government should refer the Bill to a Select Committee, because the form, manner, and details of the Bill could not be properly discussed in Committee of the Whole House, and because, even if they could, the discussion, to be effectual, would occupy a much longer time than before a Select Committee. A sufficient reason for referring the Bill to a Select Committee was, that its provisions widely differed from the recommendations of the Royal Commission. His hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General could not but feel, that in defending the measure he had been arguing against the Report of the Royal Commission, which had the advantage of the assistance of the Speaker and two or three members of the present Government or individuals connected with it. Except in regard to the Lord Chancellor, he had not yet heard from any of the Commissioners that they had altered the opinion they expressed in their Report. The Commissioners had, in substance, pronounced a registry of assurances to be impracticable; and one of the main differences between the Bill and the Report of the Commissioners was, that the measure was, in effect, a registry of assurances. The Solicitor General had argued that it was not, but the Attorney General had justified it because it was.
 MR. ROLT , in moving the second reading of this Bill, stated, that its object was to enable every landowner having a good title to obtain a judicial declaration that his title was good and indefeasible. The declaration of indefeasibility of title was by no means necessarily connected with a registry of title, and registration of title might be very useful without any declaration that it was indefeasible. When a person had obtained judicial declaration of title under the Bill now before the House, he might enter it upon the register under the Government Bill which had just been read a second time, or he might abstain from so registering it, at his discretion. If he wished to sell his land without registration, he had only to show that from the time of his declaration of title till the proposed sale nothing had been done affecting the title to the property. It was only after the lapse of a long time that he would need another judicial declaration o1 title. Every person who claimed to be an owner in fee-simple might apply for a judicial declaration, and this Bill would effect that object through the instrumentality o the Court of Chancery, It was not proposed
 262 263
 MR. ROLT  said, however that might be, the Bill was, nevertheless, both a registry of titles and a registry of assurances. That it was the latter was evident from the 79th clause, though nobody seriously insisted on establishing a registry of assurances, which was condemned by the Committee which sat in 1853, as well as by the Report of the Commission. He earnestly trusted that the Bill would be sent to a Select Committee. The more it approximated to the Report of the Commissioners, the greater probability there would be of its being acted on and becoming a practical and useful measure.
 MR. ROLT  said, he rose to move the second reading of the Bill. Its object might be shortly stated. It enabled evidence of the clear and indefeasible title of any landowner to be perpetuated without a register. The Bill proposed that any owner who had obtained a declaration of title should be at liberty to endorse his purchase deed on the certificate of title, and so every succeeding purchaser would be entitled to endorse his title on the conveyance of his grantor, and thus by a series of endorsements every dealing with the land would be shown. The Bill also provided that no deed not memorialized should be of any validity against a purchaser for value. The only difficulty would be as to the means of getting access to the deeds for the purpose of endorsing the memorial
 265
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he would state soon after the holidays what the intentions of the Government were on the subject.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I rise, according to notice, to move that the House at its rising shall adjourn to Thursday next, and in moving that Motion I wish to avail myself of the opportunity to make one or two observations on the course of business which is about to come on. Up to yesterday afternoon Her Majesty's Government had reason to believe that the question upon which the House would be called on to deliberate, was a choice between different methods of expressing very nearly the same meaning and intention—namely, the meaning that all parties in the House are desirous that every practical economy should be enforced consistently with the due maintenance and proper efficiency of the several branches of the public service. But a Notice was given yesterday at the meeting of the House, which in our opinion entirely alters the issue. It is no longer a question of the relative value of substantives and adjectives. The question which the House will now be called upon to determine is, whether the Gentlemen who sit on these benches or the Gentlemen who sit on the opposite benches are best entitled to the confidence of the House and of the country. Sir, I say this, first, from the particular form of the Amendment of which notice has been given; next, from the quarter of the House whence it comes; and thirdly, from, the character of the meeting in which we are entitled to assume it originated yesterday. Sir, we are quite prepared to enter upon that discussion. At the same time, we ought not to conceal from ourselves, and I am sure the House does not conceal from itself, the serious importance of that issue. We are of opinion, therefore, that it will be better for the House to go at once to the question fraught with serious and important consequences, instead of wasting time in discussing the comparative value of the Amendments which have been proposed. [ * 293
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU : Sir, I should certainly be glad to meet the wishes of the noble Viscount, and to consult the convenience of the House as far as I can. It is quite true that I did not give notice of my Motion in a spirit of hostility to the Government, nor, indeed, had it reference to any party or section in this House. It sprang solely from a sincere and honest desire to promote economy in the financial arrangements of the country in the only way in which that seemed possible—by insuring a better attendance of Members in Committee of Supply. I am exceedingly sorry to hear from the noble Viscount that this question is about to be converted into the stalking-horse of ambition, and the prostitute of our claims to power. I think it is a great mistake that such an issue should be raised on a matter that is really of the most vital importance to the country. I was present at the meeting of yesterday to which reference has been made, and I can assure the noble Viscount that no Amendment was either originated or discussed at the meeting; nor was that view taken of the Amendment of the right hon. Member for Cambridge University, in which the noble Viscount now says it is regarded. On the contrary, it was plainly stated at that meeting that this was not to become a party question, and that Lord Derby had no desire to turn out or embarrass the Government. I can only say, that if this is to be treated as a party move, and if we are not to be allowed to consider in a free and unfettered state whether economy cannot be enforced by the House, I shall wash my hands of the whole business, and have nothing to say to any of the Amendments before the House. I have no objection
 295
 MR. HORSMAN : I must own that I heard the speech of the noble Viscount with some surprise, because the issue which he has placed before us was one for which I was certainly not prepared. I need not say, as the noble Lord has just said, that my Amendment was not framed in any spirit of hostility to the Government—in fact, that the noble Viscount felt that it was more flattering than he deserved is evident from the tenure of his own proposal. Certainly, until I heard the notice of my right hon. Friend yesterday, it was my intention to have persevered in my Amendment; I did not think that I ought to allow the noble Viscount's modesty to stand in the way of my carrying a Resolution which amounted to approval of the policy of the Government. But when I heard the notice which was given yesterday by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole), I felt that the noble Viscount's claim to precedence was quite irresistible, and I have no hesitation in giving way. I hope I may be permitted to say one word on what has fallen so unexpectedly from the noble Viscount. I speak merely as one who shares the common interest which we all have in the order and regularity of the proceedings of this House, and have no interest whatever in the party question. But, looking at the Notices on the paper, I do not think that the noble Viscount is quite justified in the tone which he has imputed, or the colour which he has given to the Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman. When I read the Amendment of the noble Lord in the Votes I immediately said that Government had thrown away the advantage of their position, and had delivered themselves into the hands of the House. The hon. Member for Halifax (Mr. Stansfeld) raised a direct issue. He asks, what is to be our policy with regard to armaments? Are we to retrace our steps and go back to a system of gradual disarmament, or are we to continue a system of progressive and improved defence? That is the challenge of the hon. Member. But the noble Viscount does not seem to me to meet it, for at the close of his Amendment he adds an invitation to the House to express approval of the financial administration of the Government in
 296
 MR. WALPOLE : I feel, Sir, that the noble Viscount has placed not only myself—that would be a matter of no importance—but he has placed the House in a position of great difficulty and embarrassment. I hope it is not necessary for me to state—
 297 298
 MR. SPEAKER : I wish to remind the House of the exact state of business. There is no Question before the House. The Motion was disposed of before the noble lord (Lord Robert Montagu) rose; but, as the noble Lord had been appealed to, I could not interfere to prevent his making his personal explanation to the House, and the same remark applies to the right hon. Gentlemen the Members for Stroud and for the University of Cambridge.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH : I beg to move, that the House do now adjourn.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member is out of order in rising while I am addressing the House. I will leave it to the House to consider whether it is convenient that this preliminary discussion should proceed beyond those Members who have been personally appealed to. I again remind the House that there is no Question before it.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH (who spoke amid the impatience of the House) : As I stand next in the list of Amendments on the paper, I hope that the House will
 299 l-e-e-k
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH : Having been appealed to by the noble Lord to withdraw the Amendment which I have on the paper, I am most happy to accede to his request. At the same time, I beg to assure the House, that I was not aware that my right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge was about to move
 300
 MR. BRIGHT : If we are engaged in an irregular discussion, it is owing to the course taken by the noble Lord at the head of the Government; and if the House is in any difficulty with regard to the Motions before it, it is on account of the declaration which he has made. He says, as I understand him, that before the Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Walpole) there was not much difference of opinion—that the difference was a question of substantives and adjectives. Well, the substantives and adjectives of my hon. Friend the Member for Halifax (Mr. Stansfeld) are easily understood. They are not extreme; they are not offensive. I will undertake to say they meet the views of a large majority of Gentlemen on this side of the House. But the noble Lord was not willing to accept them, although he says there was little difference of opinion. We are all in favour of doing what we can to promote retrenchment. Why, then, could he not accept the Resolution of my hon. Friend? He objects to it for some reason which I am not able to discover, unless it be, as I am told, that it is not palatable for Gentlemen on that bench to agree to anything which is proposed by Gentlemen on this bench. That, no doubt, is an orthodox reason, and may be a very good one, but it is not satisfactory
 301 302
 MR. ELLICE (Coventry) : I thought the hon. Member for Birmingham would have concluded with a Motion. ["Order, order!"]
 MR. SPEAKER : It would certainly be convenient as well as for the regularity of our proceedings that some Motion should be before the House.
 MR. BRIGHT : I understood the hon. Member for Devizes to propose a Motion for the adjournment of the House.
 MR. ELLICE (Coventry) : I certainly should not have interposed any words of mine upon this subject were it not for the remarks which have fallen from my hon. Friend the Member for Birmingham, who has not given notice of any Amendment, but who concluded his speech with a Motion which enables me—["No."] I certainly do not wish to be disorderly, but I understood that either he or the hon. Gentleman opposite had proposed a Motion. ["No, no."] Well, as a person who very seldom troubles the House, but has hitherto taken an independent part in its debates, I think a few words from me may set the House right with respect to the position in which we stand at present. As I understand, my noble Friend the Prime Minister gave no notice of his intention to make any Motion on this subject till certain Amendments had been placed on the Journals of the House by different hon. Members, one more especially by my hon. Friend the Member for Stroud (Mr. Horsman). I do not see what other course was open to my noble Friend if he did not intend the debate to go astray entirely, and to get into the hands of a dozen Members all with different views, save to state fairly and openly the manner in which Her Majesty's Ministers intend to meet this Motion. Although I do not like abstract propositions, I have not the least objection—in fact, I entirely concur with
 303
 COLONEL FRENCH : I rise to order. The right hon. Member is now discussing prematurely a Motion which stands upon the books of the House. There is no Question before the House; for my noble Friend at the head of the Government, though he intimated his intention to conclude his speech with a Motion, did not do so.
 MR. ELLICE (Coventry) : I am not going to debate—[ Cries of and
 MR. SPEAKER : All I can say is that the irregularity will become very great presently.
 MR. ELLICE (Coventry) : Well, Sir, I move that this House do adjourn. ["Oh, oh!"] I was about to say that for the great expenditure which has been made I do not blame the Government so much as I blame the House; and that I think my noble Friend has taken the manly and right course, and put himself right with the House in stating the exact terms to which he would be willing to accede in reference to a Motion for the promotion of economy in the national expenditure. Then comes the Amendment moved by my right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Walpole), and of course I am bound to believe him when he states that he had not the least intention of making this Motion in any hostile spirit towards the Government. But look at the words of the Motion. The Amendment goes to this extent, that the House thinks it necessary to impress on Her Majesty's Government the necessity of economy. That is virtually saying that the Government are not willing to engage seriously in the work of economy without pressure. I do not mean to say that is the intention of my right hon. Friend, but it is the inference which may be legitimately drawn from the words of his Amendment. Could
 304
 MR. SPEAKER : I regret to have to address the House once more on a point of order. It was competent to the noble Lord at the head of the Government, as leader of this House, to address hon. Gentlemen who had Amendments on the paper in reference to the proceedings of the evening. The noble Lord, moreover, made a Motion for the adjournment of the House. After that motion was disposed of, an irregular conversation took place, and the hon. Member who last rose to order was perfectly correct in his statement that on a Motion for the adjournment
 305
 MR. ELLICE (Coventry) , expressed his readiness to withdraw his Motion.
 MR. ROEBUCK : We shall adjourn tonight to meet to-morrow morning, which no hon. Member intends to do. ["Order, order!"]
 MR. SPEAKER : The Motion for the adjournment has been made and disposed of.
 MR. ROEBUCK : It has never been put. ["Order!"]
 MR. HORSMAN : Are we to understand that the noble Lord will move his Amendment after the Motion has been proposed and seconded?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : In reply to my right hon. Friend I have to say that I cannot enter into any engagement of that kind.
 MR. HORSMAN : Then I cannot enter into an undertaking to withdraw my Amendment.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that some land near Ryde was bought for the purpose of erecting a fort upon it. The work would be shortly proceeded with, and there was no truth in the rumour that there was an intention to abandon the plan.
 MR. M'EVOY  said, he wished to ask the Lord Advocate, When he will introduce a Bill assimilating the Law of Scotland to that of England, relating to the Removal of Poor Persons to Ireland?
 MR. LINDSAY  said, the Resolution of the noble Lord did not satisfy him, more especially the second paragraph, and he would move the omission of the second paragraph, and the substitution of the following words in lieu thereof:—"But this House would regard with satisfaction such a decrease of the National Expenditure as would admit of a reduction of the present exceptional War Taxation." Hon. Gentlemen who were anxious to see the expenditure reduced without interfering with the security of the country could hardly do otherwise than support this Amendment.
 LORD WILLIAM GRAHAM  said, he also wished to ask the Secretary of Slate for War, Whether it is a fact that some ten thousand pounds was given by Government for land at Sea View, near Ryde, for the purpose of erecting a fort thereon; whether that design has now been abandoned and the land is again for sale?
 MR. DISRAELI : He adopts your first Resolution.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, from the somewhat desultory observations of the noble Lord, I observe that one topic was studiously omitted; he avoided all reference to the present condition of our finances, though that condition—described by one Member of Her Majesty's Government as unhealthy, and believed by Parliament and the people of England to be dangerous—is the real cause why the subject of national expenditure has been brought, somewhat suddenly it may be, but most earnestly, under the consideration both of Parliament and the people. Now, Sir, I am sure I do not misinterpret the general feeling of the House upon this subject
 334 335 336 337 338 339 340 341 342 343 344 345 346 d d 347 348 349 350 Peccavi 351 352 Trent 353 354 355
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, if I might presume to give any advice to the House under the present circumstances, it would be that we should all go home. The business, being really serious, will no doubt again afford to the House an opportunity of delivering its opinion upon it. It is not likely that a combination of Parliamentary circumstances such as has occurred to-night will occur again. I think the best thing is always to put a good face upon a disagreeable state of affairs, and take that sensible view which may be taken even of the most distressing and adverse occurrences, if you have
 392
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  in reply said, a proposal had been made to the India Council to aid the establishment of a line of Telegraph between Singapore and Rangoon, but in his opinion it must be considered as part of some further line, and not as an independent line, simply for Indian purposes. With regard to telegraphic communication from Scutari to Kurrachee, an arrangement was made in 1858 by which a line was to be carried from Scutari to Bagdad, and, upon its completion to Bagdad, thence to Kurrachee. A little more than a year ago it was thought that it might be advantageous to substitute for the submarine portion of the line a land line through Persia. Negotiations were accordingly set on foot with the Persian Government, and it was only within the last two or three weeks that he had heard that those negotiations were not likely to have any result. He was, therefore, not in a condition now to say what the Government would ultimately determine to do, but in some shape or other they would be bound to complete a line through the Turkish dominions to Kurrachee.
 MR. HORSMAN : Sir, the House has now before it the Resolution moved by the hon. Member for Halifax (Mr. Stansfeld, and the Amendment proposed by the noble Lord at the head of the Government. They are as dissimilar, both in character and in aim, as a Resolution and an Amendment can well be, and they are both well deserving of our serious consideration. There was another Amendment before the House, which I believe has now been withdrawn; and on that I will only say one word in passing as to the Parliamentary position of those by whom notice of it was given, and to what I alluded in the earlier part of the evening. The noble Lord understood me to construe that Amendment into a Vote of
 357 358 359 360 361 Trent 362 363 364 365 366 367 368 369 370 371 casus belli 372 373
 MR. CLAY  expressed his satisfaction that the noble Lord had not accepted the Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman, which had been generally spoken of as calculated, if was not intended, to humiliate him. The noble Lord had, however, undeceived those who thought that he was ready to swallow anything. There was a want of vigour and of reality both about the original Motion and the Amendments, with the single exception of the Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Horsman), which alone raised a distinct and an honest issue,
 MR. STANSFELD : Sir, if the question of confidence in the Government should be raised in the course of this debate, it is at least not raised by the Motion which I shall have the honour of submitting to the House. That Motion was placed upon the paper in the conviction that the time had at length arrived when it had become possible, and highly necessary, that both the House and the Government should reconsider the expenditure of the country with a view to its reduction. And, Sir, I submit the Resolution now also in the belief that it is the best contribution which I can make towards the attainment of so desirable an end. It is to the sincerity of that purpose alone that I can appeal, and do appeal, as my justification to the House in occupying on this occasion a prominence and responsibility from which otherwise I should shrink. There have been certain—there have been numerous—Amendments placed on the paper since I gave
 306 maximum 307 308 309 310 s 311 312 313 minimum 314 315 "That, in the opinion of this House, the National Expenditure is capable of reduction without compromising the safety, the independence, or the legitimate influence of the country."
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he wished to state the course he should feel it his duty to take under the extraordinary circumstances in which the House was placed. He liked a direct course. He came there to-night for the purpose of hearing the Amendment of his right hon. Friend (Mr. Walpole) debated and decided upon its merits. He thought the subject interesting, and he should not have been frightened by the language even of the noble Viscount. But before that question could be discussed, the noble Viscount, in a manner unprecedented, unconstitutional, and unparliamentary, stood up and declared what would be his conduct in the event of the House being satisfied of the justice of the right hon. Gentleman's Amendment. If the noble Viscount could act in that way whenever he pleased, he became not the leader, but the Dictator of that Assembly. As the Motion of the Previous Question could not be now put according to the forms of the House, and as his right hon. Friend had withdrawn his Amendment, nothing remained for him to say,
 388
 MR. J. C. EWART  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether any proposition has been made to the India Council to aid the establishment of a line of Telegraph between Singapore and India; and if so, what is the general nature of that proposition?
 MR. P. W. MARTIN  said, he trusted no one would suppose that he had the presumption to rise for the purpose of following and answering the able speech which they had just listened to from, the right hon. Gentleman. He would not have risen but for one observation in the speech of his hon. Friend who seconded the original Resolution, and because he thought he had a few figures which had an important bearing on the question, and which were deserving of the serious consideration of the House. His hon. Friend had stated, that in his opinion it would be wise to strike off the Estimates 20,000 sailors and soldiers. But what would be the effect of this upon an average of years? Within the last six years, this very experiment of a reduction of 20,000 men had been tried, and he would show the House the results. At the end of the Crimean war we had 76,000 efficient seamen, whom we maintained at the cost for wages, necessaries, &c., of £2,602,000; and the report was, that the Government of the day intended to recommend that force at that cost to be maintained as the permanent defensive force of the country. But upon the return of peace, and with the income tax at 16 d 356 prestige
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : As a friend of economy, I cannot, like the hon. Member for Bradford (Mr. W. E. Forster), who, I believe, pulls the strings on this occasion, find matter of congratulation in the course which the debate has taken; for, whatever may be the opinion of the crowded assembly in this House, I am mistaken if the country will not look on the whole proceedings of this night as one of the most solemn shams. Here we were brought down on the eve of one of the great holydays of the country to hear an elaborate speech from my hon. Friend the Member for Halifax, which, somehow or other, evaded the whole subject, but which, if carried out to its legitimate conclusions, would involve this country in a long and expensive war. The hon. Member for Halifax, taking counsel, no doubt, in the morning with his colleague, the other Member for Halifax, made a speech in which a few Liberal sentiments were enounced, but the question of economy was kept completely in the background, though the hon. Member, like the Emperor Napoleon, seemed ready to go to war for an idea. In the speech he made he gave the go-by to all the discussions on Estimates, and I felt rather surprised when I recollected that those hon. Gentlemen among whom I sit, but in whose sentiments I do not always participate, when we come to Votes upon Estimates—to a Vote like that on Alderney, for instance, the other night, in which £270,000 was at stake, and which by the aid of eight votes we might have struck off, are always absent, though they can come down here at other times and in sounding periods and bow-wow platitudes enunciate theories which attract the attention of the House even on the eve of a Derby Day—and that is a great thing. Then there are those sixty-three Financial Reformers who signed the famous round-robin, who are always away when there is anything brought forward; for instance, on that Vote for Aldershot, which was one of the first things we tested them upon, they were all absent. ["No, no!"] Perhaps there were some of them there, but I notice that these Gentlemen have got now into a way of saying, "No, we won't contest the Estimates, but we will come forward on some
 389 "Why all this difference should there be " 'Twixt Tweedledum and Tweedledee." "Back recoils, he knows not why, "E'en at the sound himself has made." 390 391
 MR. COBDEN : Sir, it was my intention to have moved the adjournment of this debate. I came down to the House expecting that there would have been a lengthened discussion on the question of our finances, to which the House generally would have listened. I am not able to speak at length on the general question that has been discussed to-night; but as I think from the turn the debate has taken that the House will not be disposed to adjourn the discussion, I am induced to offer one or two remarks simply in consequence of the very friendly, and affectionate appeal made to me by my right hon. Friend, who has just sat down (Mr. Horsman). I remember once hearing the
 374 375 376 377 par excellence 378 entente cordiale 379 La Gloire Solferino Magenta par excellence 380 381 382
 MR. WALPOLE : Mr. Speaker, the announcement made at the commencement of this evening by the noble Viscount at the head of the Government was of so startling and unusual a character, that it places not merely myself, but my friends and the House, in a position of great difficulty and embarrassment. In the choice, however, of the difficulties placed before me, and placed before the House, it is my duty now to redeem the pledge which I gave at the commencement of the evening, that I would state the course which, upon reflection, I thought it would be right to take. The Government have placed us in this position—either the House is not to express its opinion on questions of finance and expenditure, without running the risk of throwing the responsibility on any Gentleman who may move an Amendment of attempting to displace the Government; or else the responsibility which, on the other horn of the dilemma, would be thrown on me is, that notwithstanding the Motion of which I gave notice was not intended, either by me or by those with whom I act, as a Motion of censure or of want of confidence in the Government, yet the noble Viscount has chosen to put it in that light, and therefore throws on me, who have given notice of that Motion, the responsibility alluded to by my right hon. Friend below me, of taking upon myself all the responsibility of such a Motion, supposing it were to succeed. Now, I always understood that any Gentleman or party in this House who undertook to move what is considered a vote of censure
 386
 MR. BAXTER  rose to second the Motion. It had, he said, often been charged upon the Liberal Members who had been the advocates of reduced expenditure in that House that they were either absent when the Estimates were under discussion or that some of the foremost of them were found in the lobby voting in favour of schemes which involved increased public expenditure. That charge in some individual instances might be true, and would always be true so long as inconsistency existed in this world; but it was not true of the great body of the party, for he had observed that on Supply nights the benches below the gangway on that side the House were generally better filled than any other part of the House, and that their occupants did not as a rule vote for increasing the burdens of the people. For himself, he could say that ever since he had had the honour of a seat in that House he had taken an active part in the discussion of the Estimates; though he believed it to be perfectly true, as had been said by the hon. Member for Halifax (Mr. Stansfeld), that no serious reductions could be effected on those occasions. The fact that he or other hon. Members took part in the discussion of the Estimates did not, however, absolve them from the bounden duty of discussing the expenditure of the country as a whole and endeavouring to press upon the House and the Government the danger of keeping that expenditure at so high a rate when we were at peace with all the world, and when our naval and military armaments were in such a state of efficiency as to render all peril from abroad totally ridiculous. It was very easy to stigmatize the Motion of the hon. Member for Halifax as being merely an abstract proposition; but he put it to the House whether the Resolution of his hon. Friend would not be likely, if carried, materially to affect the Estimates of the coming year? Was there anything unreasonable or unconstitutional in the House of Commons in the month of June, 1862, criticising the financial position of the country, and without casting blame upon any one for Estimates which were no doubt prepared
 316 317 History of the Middle Ages "It is difficult to name a limit beyond which taxes cannot be borne without impatience, when they appear to be called for by necessity, and faithfully applied; nor is it impracticable for a skilful Minister to deceive the people in those respects." "Those Statesmen who deem the security of Governments to depend, not on laws and armies, but on moral sympathy with the people, will vigilantly guard against even the suspicion of prodigality. 318 319 320 321 322
 MR. W. E. FORSTER (who spoke amid much interruption)  said, he wished to state in a few words the sense he put upon the Resolution of the noble Lord at the head of the Government. He interpreted it in the sense stated by the noble Lord himself—as a pledge for economy. He was well aware that the words in which the pledge were clothed in themselves carried very little weight
 387
 MR. MONSELL  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for War, When he intends to propose a Vote of Money for the purpose of carrying on the National Defences?
 COLONEL STUART  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether an agreement was entered into in 1858 between the Government of Turkey and the Government of this country (or of India), for the construction of a line of Telegraph from Scutari to Bagdad by the Turkish Government; whether it was not also agreed between the contracting parties that, on the
 290
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether Her Majesty's Government have taken any steps, by representations in the proper quarter, to obtain redress for the alleged insults and outrages lately offered to a British Subject, the Archbishop of Rhodes, Bishop of Malta, in the Port of Messina? As the Archbishop was proceeding from Malta to Rome, the ship touched at Messina. As soon as it arrived, a number of boats surrounded it, full of men, who threw all kinds of dirt and rubbish into it. So hostile was the demonstration that the captain thought it necessary, for the safety of the ship, to steam out of the harbour at once.
 SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR  said, in the absence of his right hon. and learned Friend (the Lord Advocate), he had to state that he proposed to move for leave to introduce a Bill, immediately after the recess, to assimilate the Law of Scotland to that of England relating to the Removal of Poor Persons to Ireland.
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE : I entirely concur in the advice which the right hon. Gentleman has addressed to the House, and believe that it would be far more for the dignity of our debates and of our proceedings if we take without further division or discussion the Amendment of the noble Lord, which has now become a substantive Motion, and leave the whole world to judge of the proceedings of the noble Lord and the Government upon the matter. But my reason for rising now is
 393 394
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I believe the hon. and learned Baronet has been misinformed as to the nature of the transaction. No doubt the ship in which the Archbishop had embarked was surrounded by boats, but the people in those boats threw words, and not mud, into the vessel. It was, undoubtedly, an offensive demonstration, and Her Majesty's Government have made a representation to the Italian Government, hoping that they would take steps to inquire into the matter, and that those persons who had be offended might receive such punishment as the law provided.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The right hon. Gentleman leaves in what we put in his preamble; but when he comes to the practical part of his Resolution, he confines the enactment solely to the defence of this country: and, after all, he only slips in the reference to our interests abroad as a parenthesis. When that was putin—it looks like a sort of afterthought—there was so little time that it could not be well woven in with the substance of the Resolution. Our Resolution affirms the duty of the Government and the obligation of the House to provide for the defence of the country and the protection of our interests abroad. I do not think that there is any man in the House who, when the question is seriously put, would negative that affirmation. We say that we have seen with satisfaction that some decrease of expenditure has been effected. Listening to the speeches of my hon. Friends who moved and seconded this Resolution, one would have thought that the expenditure of the country had gone on annually increasing. That was their whole argument, and those who were not acquainted with the facts would have been led to the conclusion that year after year
 330 331 332 "The wound is great because it is so small." 333
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I can only say that I have the same objection to this Amendment as I had to the Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman opposite.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Mr. Speaker, I avail myself of the courteous intimation which was made by the noble Lord on the other side, and by my right hon.
 323 324 325 326 327 328 329
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the retirement of Colonel Bentinck, had not taken place in pursuance of the terms of the warrant to which the hon. Gentleman alluded. The warrant would not have permitted an Officer to retire on half pay under the circumstances under which Colonel Bentinck had left his regiment. Of course it was competent for the Crown, which was the authority from which warrants issued, to dispense with it in cases in which an exception to the rule might seem desirable. On financial grounds the public would gain by the substitution of a junior for a senior Colonel, inasmuch as the latter was nearer his Major Generalship. In respect to the general question of superseding Colonel Bentinck, he would only remark that when a commanding Officer of a regiment appeared to be inefficient, and it was desirable to remove him, the action of the Commander in Chief would be seriously crippled if the step of insisting on that Officer's retirement were not resorted to. At the same time it would be most unfair to the Officer if he were not allowed half-pay. The hon. Gentleman seemed to treat the case of Colonel Bentinck as one of undue leniency.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he had certainly understood that that was the spirit of the hon. Gentleman's Question; at all events, it had been thought by some that undue favour and leniency had been shown to Colonel Bentinck, whereas he believed that the view taken by Colonel Bentinck himself was that he had been treated by the Horse Guards with extreme severity. Therefore, setting one opinion against the other, it might fairly be presumed that the course which had been taken was not far removed from the just one. As regarded Captain Robertson, the sentence of the Court Martial had been rescinded by the advice of the Commander in Chief, and he (Sir G. Lewis) held himself responsible for that step.
 MR. PEEL  said, the rights of the Crown over the Forest were merely forest rights. The Crown had no property in the soil or timber, and had no power to devote any portion of it either to the purposes of common or of public recreation. The enclosure had been made by the Enclosure Commissioners under the Enclosure Acts, and not by the authority of the Crown.
 MR. WHITE SIDE  said, he wished to know whether the rumours were well founded that there had been fresh attacks on property and life; whether any measures of repression were contemplated by the Government; and when the Special Commission would take place, or how soon before the Assizes, which commenced in the first week of July?
 MR. WHITE SIDE : I do not think that the statement of the noble Lord is satisfactory. The Government is inefficient in Ireland because—without questioning the general popularity of the Government of the noble Viscount—his Government is unpopular in Ireland, and has not the confidence of any section of the people. I think he is mistaken in what he has said regarding the mode in which the Government of that country can be assimilated to that of England. I think the laws in the two countries can be assimilated. I think scant benefit is to be gained from special commissions. I think the steady, impartial, regular administration of justice by those well acquainted with the country will go far to restore tranquillity. But, at the same time, I venture to insinuate, with great respect, that it will be very difficult to govern Ireland in the same way as the Ionian Islands are governed—that is to say, with all the inhabitants of one way of thinking and the local Executive of another.
 MR. WHITE SIDE  said, that what he had asked was, Whether the Special Commission was about to be issued on the eve of the assizes?
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the government of the army was subject to two authorities—one was the authority of Acts of Parliament, and the other the authority of the executive Government, as expressed by warrants under the sign manual. The Government, equally with the Crown, were bound to carry out the provisions of an Act of Parliament; but there was a certain discretionary power in giving effect to warrants. The regulations made from time to time by Royal warrants were generally carried into effect; but it was clearly competent for the Crown, by whom those warrants were issued, to make individual exceptions to the rules and regulations which they contained. In this case the Crown had been pleased to do a single act which, unquestionably, was not provided for by the warrant to which reference had been made; but he apprehended there was no doubt of the legal power of the Crown to do it.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the Secretary of State wag responsible to Parliament.
 COLONEL CLIFFORD  thought that the simple word of Lord Llanover would be sufficient to satisfy the House that he had not acted improperly in this matter. He would read the following letter, which he had received from the noble Lord:—
 "Llanover, June 1. "My dear Clifford,—I observe by the papers that Mr. Roebuck has given notice that he will put several questions in relation to a matter connected with this county. The facts are these, as far as I am concerned as Lord Lieutenant. In December last Lieutenant-Colonel Vaughan, commanding the Royal Monmouth Militia, requested me to submit for the Queen's approval the name of Mr. William Reginald Jones for a commission then vacant in the regiment. This I consented to do, and directed the clerk of the lieutenancy to inform Mr. W. R. Jones of my intention to comply with his wishes so expressed. Mr. Jones, in reply (dated December 22), requested that his name might not be submitted until February, when he would be of age, as his father had expressed a wish to that effect. The matter was therefore delayed. On the 18th of February Mr. Jones again wrote to the clerk of the lieutenancy, stating that he attained his majority two days previously, and requested him to obtain the insertion of his name in the  Gazette 436 "I remain, my dear Clifford, yours sincerely, "LLANOVER."
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR , in rising to second the Motion, merely wished to express a hope that full justice would be done to the officers referred to by the hon. Baronet. He thought that the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for India must be well disposed towards those gallant gentlemen; and he would remind him that when the transfer of the Government of India was about to take place, it was guaranteed that the pay, privileges, and allowances of military and naval officers would be considered and strictly adhered to.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether there is any truth in the report that the Admiralty intend to build an iron-cased ship of war at Pembroke? He believed the statement would turn out to be entirely a mistake, the Government having pledged themselves to build only one iron ship at Chatham, in order to ascertain whether the prices of the contractors were fair and reasonable. That experiment, he believed, was very satisfactory, but he hoped they would not incur the expense of putting up the plant necessary for iron ship-building at the different dockyards.
 MR. G. L. PHILLIPS  thought it extremely inconvenient, on going into Committee of Supply, to raise these questions of detail, which belonged specially to the province of the Admiralty. This was an executive question, and he hoped therefore the Admiralty would maintain a firm front, and not give way to the representations of Members connected with the dockyards, advocating the interests of their own constituents.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : My hon. Friend asks mo as to the time when this subject will be brought on, A short time since he was very anxious to prevent an undue precipitation on the part of the Government—[Mr. BERNAL OSBORNE: We had not the evidence then.]—and requested I would give an undertaking that the question should not be proposed before the Report of the Committee was in the hands of Members, and without full time to consider the evidence. The Report is printed; but I believe that the evidence is not yet circulated among Members. I had a copy brought to me to-day, and I believe there are two copies in the library. If I had named a day before Whitsuntide, I should have been told that the evidence was not yet in the hands of Members, and that the discussion was altogether premature. Well, then, I think I have shown that I have lost no time in not bringing on the question before the holydays. What I propose is, that on Thursday after the holydays I shall endeavour to fix a day. At the same time, it will, of course, depend on other business, which may be more urgent, whether I shall be able, with the consent of my noble Friend at the head of the Government, immediately after the holydays to name a day.
 MR. PEEL  said, that the increase in the number of examiners and exhibitions had led to a necessary increase of expense. For instance, there had been appointed two Examiners in Forensic Medicine.
 MR. PEEL  said, the whole of the Vote did not apply directly to the Scotch Universities. Part of it was for the Royal Society, and the Royal Observatory and Botanic Garden; also for compensations to retired professors, and for the examination of parish schoolmasters; in all £6,000 must be deducted from the total amount of the Vote on account of those institutions. It was true, however, that an increase in the sum asked on their account had taken place of late years, an increase which was the result of recent legislation, in accordance with which a Commission had been appointed, which was empowered to nominate new Professors as well as to raise the salaries of those already in existence.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSON : I think there is an old authority applicable to this case—
 —"Quis enim virtutem amplectitur ipsam, "Praemia si tollas?"
 The O'CONOR DON  pointed out that no explanation for the increase of the Vote on that of last year had been given. He believed that the large increase of the prizes did not tend to promote the desire to obtain them; for when the prizes were made more numerous than the scholars, it ceased to be an honour to obtain them.
 MR. DAWSON  said, the principle of this Vote had been often discussed, and accepted by the House. The money was productive of a great deal of good, and he hoped the hon. Gentleman would not divide the Committee.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  replied, that the Gallery was intended for the collection and exhibition of the portraits of persons eminent in British history.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, that in the last report of the Trustees of the Portrait Gallery there was but one note of complaint—of want of space. The Trustees recounted, with justifiable pride, that Her Majesty had presented them with a portrait, now doubly dear, of the late illustrious Prince Consort. For this, however, there was no adequate room; and the same was said of other pictures. There was a sort of Kensington-phobia on the benches opposite; but there were three or four rooms at the South Kensington Museum which had been used for the Vernon Gallery, and which were now empty. Instead of being seen by 10,000 persons in one year, these portraits would be seen at Kensington by 400,000, The Chancellor of the Exchequer was, he believed, quite aware of the anomalous position of this institution, established in a corner in Great George Street, and only open for a few hours twice a week. His hon. Friend (Mr. C. Bentinck) demanded that these pictures should be bought with good taste, and a fair price given for them. But among a body so constituted, whose taste would his hon. Friend accept—that of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Bucks, or the noble Lord the Member for Stamford? This gallery was another illustration of the truth that the national collections of a country, if they were worth anything, were worthy of being properly cared for. He trusted the Government would consider whether the object which they had all in view would not be carried out by the temporary removal of these portraits to South Kensington.
 SIR CHARLES DOUGLAS  hoped the Government would explain the reason of the increased Vote.
 MR. DENMAN  said, that he had been requested by the friends of this gentleman to state that these Questions had not been asked at his suggestion, but, on the contrary, that he was rather anxious that the matter should not have been brought before the House. Mr. Jones, having determined to take the name of Herbert, in-
 435
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  wished to know what became of the surplus funds.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  called attention to the circumstance that in many years there were fewer scholars than scholarships, and therefore the sums appropriated for some of them were not needed. He asked what became of those sums, and suggested that it might be desirable to increase the amount of the scholarships, so as to stimulate competition.
 MAJOR O'REILLY  said, he must call the attention of the Committee to the want of explicitness in the answers given to questions which had been asked. He wished to know what the Government intended to do with respect to professorships in the cases in which the Professors had little or nothing to do. At Belfast there was a Professor of Agriculture, who taught a class in practical agriculture consisting of one student, and a class in the diseases of farm animals which also consisted of one, and, as he was credibly informed, of the same student. The Professor also stated he made excursions with the students or student. He hoped that this was not one of the Professors who wore thought to be underpaid. In Cork the number of students attending a similar course was three only, of whom one was matriculated; the other two probably belonged to that class who put down their names to swell the list. In Galway there were six students attending the same class, but whether matriculated or not he could not tell. Then with regard to the Professorships of the Celtic Languages, in Belfast the chair was vacant at present, and he hoped long might continue so. In Cork there was no class, and not any prospect of one. In Galway, during five years, there were in some years two, in others three pupils, and during six years, at different intervals, no pupils at all. There was another branch of instruction nominally established, which strongly illustrated the fact that those institutions were supplying a description of teaching that was not wanted. In each College there were two Professors of Law. In Cork there were four students for two Professors, and in Galway there were in some way or other seven. Mr. Denis Caulfield Heron had been appointed Professor of Jurisprudence in Galway; he had a large practice in Dublin, and he had only to go down occasionally to teach his class. Having gone down one time he went to the porter and inquired, "Where is the Jurisprudence
 454
 MAJOR O'REILLY  said, that as an old member of the London University he would defend the Vote. The number of students who passed the last matriculation was nearly 400.
 MR. AYRTON  thought the present discussion was a strong contrast to that of Tuesday evening. This was an instance of a great waste of public money. The hon. Member for the King's County had frequently brought this subject before the House. Instead of being met in the manner his ability and fairness deserved, he had been treated in a manner painful to all who witnessed it; but it had gained him, the sympathy of the House. Of all political blunders, the establishment of these Queen's Colleges was the greatest. It was an attempt to introduce a system of education for part of the community at variance with their religious feelings. It might have been an excusable blunder at the time, but what took place last year had made it inexcusable. If they adopted the opinion of the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston), the money voted for the colleges was a mere payment to students for acquiring a certain amount of knowledge. If so, the institution was a degradation of learning, and ought to be immediately abolished. The noble Lord had put the expenditure on a very low footing. When it was brought under the notice of the Government that the expenditure did not tend to the advancement of learning, ought it not to reconsider the question? The Vote on the paper was only in addition to the very large sum charged on the Consolidated Fund. He was almost afraid to say what was the whole charge for the University. It was so large that when the Government was told, by those who spoke in behalf of the Roman Catholics, that the University was a failure, it was its duty at once to reconsider the subject. If no useful result was obtained, so many thousands a year ought not to be paid for no satisfactory purpose. The whole discussion to-night proved that the proceedings of Tuesday were "a solemn sham."
 MR. AYRTON  said, the result of it all was that £360,000 had been spent in teaching 300 persons as much as they learnt in an ordinary University education. That was the result of this attempt to undermine the Roman Catholic religion —an attempt which had produced constant irritation in Ireland, and the sooner it was abandoned the better.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that the Trustees would not, perhaps, feel themselves justified in opening the Museum on Sundays, seeing the difference of opinion which existed on the subject; but they ought to give in the week all the opportunities
 458
 MR. AYRTON  hoped the Trustees would inquire what would be the expense of lighting the Museum with gas outside, so as not to injure the specimens.
 MR. LEFROY  said:—Sir, no Member of this House regrets more than I do that the affairs of Ireland should be dragged before the House on every possible occasion. I am as anxious as any one could be that the affairs of that country should be fairly and properly considered; but I think that there are certain times when it is right to bring subjects like the present under the notice of the House, and that this is not one of them. It is from a feeling that Irish matters are too frequently and unnecessarily brought forward, in a way which very much intrudes upon the public time, that when such subjects are discussed I very rarely address the House. But feeling that I have as great an interest in
 421 422 423
 MR. A. MILLS  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for India, When it is likely he will make his statement on the finances of India; and whether he can lay on the table of the House any correspondence on the subject?
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  believed that his hon. Friend was a member of the Council of the University. [Mr. J. R. MILLS: Not now.] His object was to prevent the constant yearly additions which were made to these Votes. Surely that was an intelligible principle. He saw an item of £120 for the salary of a new officer—an assistant clerk. Now, the salary of the Registrar had been settled after correspondence at £800; and it now seemed as if, by establishing this place of assistant, Parliament was asked to make up the salary of the Registrar to a larger amount. He saw no reason why this Vote should not remain at £5,000.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  took occasion to call attention to the large increase under that head which had within the last few years taken place.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  moved that the Vote should be reduced by £473, making it £5,000.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  called attention to the increase on the Vote of last year. There was nothing on the face of the Estimates to show the items in respect of which the increase had arisen.
 MR. A. SMITH  asked for an explanation of this Vote.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he was convinced, that if this collection should be sent to South Kensington, in another year the House would be called upon for a vote for additional officers. The best place for these pictures was in that House. They might be placed on the walls of the corridors, and no expense would be incurred.
 MR. DISRAELI : I cannot agree with the principle laid down by the noble Lord. By multiplying prizes you do not necessarily increase competition; but you may, on the contrary, establish monopoly. I do not desire, however, to enter into any controversy on this subject, or at all to enter on the question of mixed education; but I think I am bound to say that the hon. Gentleman who introduced this question, who stated his case with great ability, and who brought forward facts quite worthy of the attention of the Committee, does not appear to have been replied to in that tone which the importance of the subject, and the temper and ability with which it was introduced to the Committee, deserve. With regard to the taunt that the hon. Member for the King's County was himself a pupil in one of the Queen's Colleges, I can only say I congratulate the Queen's College
 447
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he was glad to hear from the noble Lord the Member for Marylebone, that a large body of Roman Catholic opinion sympathized with the policy which had been pursued by Her Majesty's Government, and that there was a wide-spread sympathy amongst them for their co-religionists in Italy in their efforts to acquire that freedom to which they had proved themselves so fully entitled. The remarkable fact which had been admitted during the debate which had taken place, was that several of the persons who had recently been murdered in Ireland were Roman Catholics. Coupling these two facts, and remembering the spirit which animated the hon. and learned Baronet the Member for Dundalk (Sir George Bowyer), and the fact that he represented the opinions and purposes of the Ultramontane and dominant party of ecclesiastical Rome, it must be quite apparent to the House, that there were in Ireland persons at the head of the Roman Catholic hierarchy who wished to force on the Roman Catholics of Ireland claims on their part and submission on the part of others to which many Irish Roman Catholics were as adverse as the Italians were to the temporal power of the Pope. And it was a remarkable fact, that in speaking on the subject of these murders, the hon. Baronet should stipulate that certain concessions should be made to the hierarchy of the Roman Catholic Church in Ireland, in order to induce them to exercise their influence to mitigate those atrocious evils. [Sir G. BOWYER: No, No!] He (Mr. Newdegate) was speaking in the recollection of the House of what had become manifest during the debate. The hon. Baronet said plainly that these Roman Catholic bishops — he (Mr. Newdegate) rather believed that he might more properly have said that the Legate Dr. Cullen—claimed to exercise in Ireland an authority higher than that of the Imperial Legislature; the impression on the mind of the hon. Baronet evidently being, that this high authority would not be exercised for the preservation of life and property unless Parliament succumbed to that which the hon. Baronet described, and claimed should be considered, as a higher authority in matters temporal than the Imperial Parliament! ["No, No !"] The hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Lefroy) had
 429
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he was quite aware of the fact. He need scarcely, however, remind the hon. and gallant Member, that although the speeches of the
 412 The Times
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he was not at present in a position to name the actual time for that statement. The matter would come on as soon as he could find a day when there was no other pressing business. He was quite ready to lay on the table the correspondence which had taken place on the subject of Indian finance during the last twelve months.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he did not think it would be a convenient practice to lay on the table of the House reports of speeches made in the Indian Legislature.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that when the hon. Baronet (Sir H. Willoughby) asked him what the position of the Indian navy and of the officers of the Indian navy was, he must reply, that as a matter of fact it was perfectly unchanged since the government of the East India Company had been superseded, because nothing whatever had been done. Whatever might have been said in the Indian newspapers or reported through other sources, nothing had been done. If the letters to which the hon. Baronet referred had been written by Indian officers, they were not official letters, and had no authority whatever. The Government of Bombay had differed from the Government of India in reference to the measures which ought to be taken with respect to the Indian navy, and he had deferred taking any step till he should have had an opportunity of conferring with Lord Canning, with Sir George Clerk, the Governor of Bombay, and with the gallant officer now at the head of the Indian navy (Commodore Wellesley). These two latter gentlemen were now on their return home, and he was anxious to have a conference with them before he did anything. He had not, however, the slightest doubt that there ought at any rate to be a considerable reduction. In saying that, he hoped the hon. Baronet would not understand him as differing in the slightest degree from him as to the services performed by the Indian navy whenever their assistance had been required. He was happy to join in what the hon. Baronet said in respect of those services; but the Bengal marine, which was constituted on a different footing from the Indian navy, had also performed ser-
 439 minimum
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH , referring to an expression of the Secretary of State for War in answering the question as to Colonel Bentinck's retirement, wished to know, Whether the Crown had the power of dispensing with the provisions of a Royal Warrant? because he had always deemed the Royal warrants to express the laws of the army.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  wished to know who was responsible.
 LORD FERMOY  explained, that he did not attribute to the Roman Catholic clergy that they were accessory to these horrible crimes. In his argument he had endeavoured to account for the very widespread disloyalty to the law which existed in Ireland; and he said that one of the reasons for it was that the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary pursued a particular policy with respect to the heads of
 428
 LORD FERMOY  said, that having property in Ireland, he was unwilling that this subject should drop without having from Her Majesty's Government something more tangible and practical than the speech of the noble Viscount. Nothing could be more appalling than the present state of affairs in Ireland. Within the last six weeks there had been six or seven agrarian murders, or attempts at murder, in that country. And what had been the effect
 417 418 419
 LORD FERMOY  wished to explain that the hon. Gentleman had misunderstood what he had said about the police in Ireland. He had found fault with the Government for putting the police over the heads of the local magistracy, but that was not the fault of the police.
 MR. CARDWELL  wished to point out that the increase in the Vote was for the purpose of rendering the remuneration of certain gentlemen engaged in instruction, which was now very inadequate, more suited to their ability and attainments, A proposal was then under the consideration of the Government, not to ask for more money from Parliament, but to redistribute the money it had already voted, in order to make the remuneration of these gentlemen less inadequate than it had been. The present Vote was for the examinations of the pupils who had been educated in the Colleges. This expenditure had not been forced on the country by the Government. The Colleges had had great difficulties to contend with, having met much opposition; but the number of students was now continually increasing, and in the last year the number of pupils was 752. Those 750 pupils were nearly equally divided between Catholics, Protestants, and Presbyterians. He had heard it said that few of the pupils were worthy of any distinction. But the number of pupils who, in open competition for offices in the Indian and other services, had greatly distinguished themselves was a better test of the sort of education obtained at the Colleges than the opinion of any individual. It was also said that the number of degrees was not large in proportion to the number of pupils. Where the taking a degree was of advantage, as it was to young men intended for orders, for the bar, or for the medical profession, the degree was taken. In the first few years of the London University, the number of degrees was not greater; and in the Universities of Scotland, which no one pretended to be failures, the number was not exceeded. The reason was that young men went to the Queen's University, not for the purpose of obtaining degrees, but for the purpose of obtaining an education which would be of value to them in their future life. It was the legitimate object of all colleges and universities. They were not founded to give degrees, but to give a sound and valuable education. Then it was said there were more scholarships than students. If the Committee were really under that impression, they would of course hesitate to give the Vote. His right hon. Friend the Chief Secretary told him that last year 311 pupils entered. There were in the three colleges exactly forty-eight scholarships, and, unlike the
 450
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that the money which was not expended must, of course, remain undrawn from the Treasury.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he should not have risen but for the statement of the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston), that the people of Ireland were naturally inclined to screen murderers. To that statement he gave the most strenuous denial. There might be a semblance of a desire to screen offenders against the law; but it was the consequence of the state of fear in which they lived. There was no protection for any man. They were ruled by an old and effete stipendiary magistracy and a military police, and they felt that the Government did not give them the protection to which they were entitled. The Government would only receive reports of the state of the country from the stipendiary magistrates. This, and all the Governments before it, had re-
 427
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  wished to know whether the Government intended to take away the portraits from the zoological gallery of the British Museum and add them to the others?
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  objected to the Gallery, because it was a separate establishment, with divided responsibility, and different rules of management. In 1857 the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Bucks, then Chancellor of the Exchequer, declared that if the Trustees were allowed a lustrum, they would be able to show an exhibition of portraits which would prove that they had not betrayed their trust. In 1859 the present Secretary for War, then Chancellor of the Exchequer, stated that when the National Gallery was enlarged, it would be in the power of the Government to set apart rooms for the pictures now in the Portrait Gallery. Again, in 1860, when the opinion was expressed that there was no reason why the pictures in the Portrait Gallery should not be looked after by the officers of the National Gallery, the Chancellor of the Exchequer admitted that there was something anomalous in having a separate establishment, adding that he thought its dissociation from the National Gallery should be regarded as provisional. The enlargement of the National Gallery contemplated by the Secretary for War had now been effected; the lustrum alluded to by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Bucks had been accomplished by the fluxion of time, and on the present occasion he hoped the Government would say what they intended to do with the Portrait Gallery. There could be no doubt that the existence of a separate establishment was detrimental to the object in view. At present the Portrait Gallery was a small National Gallery without any of the advantages of the large one. It had no staff; it was open only eight or ten hours a week; the public could not go to it, and they could not see the pictures if they did go. The Trustees were always crying
 461 Biographical Dictionary 462
 MR. CHILDERS  hoped the Government would, during the recess, consider the undeniable fact that of late years a feeling had grown up that the principle of the Queen's Colleges was very defective. Unless some change were made, there would be a great waste, not merely of public money, but of valuable energies. He did not say this in a party spirit, but because he desired that the experiment should not fail for the want of proper development. He hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who, when speaking at Oxford of the middle-class schools, had urged the neces-
 452
 MR. FREELAND  hoped the right hon. Gentleman would, on the report, inform the House what precise sum had been granted by the Trustees for the purpose of aiding the publication on the  Antiquities of Halicarnassus
 MR. BRIGHT  wished to say, in reference to the answer of the right hon. Secretary for India, that under the present circumstances of a portion of the country, it was very important that the right hon. Gentleman should bring forward his Indian Budget at some reasonable period of the Session, when the attention of Members could be fairly directed to it. His hon. Friend the Member for Stockport (Mr. J. B. Smith) had given notice that he would call attention to the operations which were going on in India, with a view to promote the cultivation and greater export of cotton. It had, he understood, been agreed that that subject should not come on that evening; but it would be a great convenience if the right hon. Baronet would bring forward the whole question in such a shape that the House could discuss it in the manner so great a question deserved. As far as he could gather, it did not appear that anything was really being done in India to promote either sensibly or speedily the cultivation of cotton in that country. He knew that all those persons in Lancashire who had turned their attention to the subject were grievously disappointed at the small progress that was being made in the matter. The right hon. Baronet appeared to have fallen into the error of some of his predecessors in thinking that the finance of India was a subject of no consequence—that it was a mere matter of form, which could be disposed of in the last week of the Session. At this moment, it was, in his (Mr. Bright's) opinion, a matter of the utmost importance; and he appealed to the right hon. Baronet to press upon his colleagues that this great question was at least of as much consequence as the Highways Bill, to which the House had given up too many nights this Session. If nothing were done in India, we should find that for two or three years to come the condition of Lancashire would be such as to cause the greatest concern to the House,
 413
 MR. BRISCOE  said, he was exceedingly glad to learn from the statement of his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for India, that the just claims of the officers of the Indian navy would be fully, fairly, and liberally considered by the Government. That was all those officers desired. The Government certainly ought not to do less for these gentlemen than they had promised.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, on the authority of a Professor of History, there were lectures on History in the Queen's Colleges, but no examinations in it. What kind of history could be taught in mixed Colleges of this kind? For instance, English history was in the curriculum, but it was a
 448
 MR. HENNESSY  took occasion to ask what was the precise number of those who had obtained the degree of Master of Arts in the Sessions of 1860 and 1861? He found, he said, in the list of those who had obtained that degree in 1860 the name of a gentleman who appeared to have obtained it in a previous year, and who was Professor in a College at Belfast. He also found among the Masters of Arts the name of a gentleman who had acted with the right hon. Baronet in promoting this scheme, and he wanted to know whether the same person was secretary to the University? It must strike the Committee that the return of students could not be quite accurate. He found that the seven gentlemen he had just referred to competed for honours, and, with the exception of two officers and one other, each received a gold medal and money exhibition. The case of the Bachelors of Arts was more extraordinary. In 1860 twenty-four gentlemen got the degree of Bachelor of Arts, and upon that occasion twenty-nine gold medals were given to these twenty-four gentlemen. Notwithstanding this, the Chief Secretary for Ireland told the students, in a speech,
 445
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that in making his observations, he had showed himself the best friend to these Colleges. He found the Professors making before the Royal Commissioners similar statements, and one Professor proposed to take away certain scholarships, as the circumstance of the whole number of the scholarships being more than the number of students in the Faculty of Arts acted injuriously on education in Ireland, and did not operate to attract scholars to the College. Was it, then, fair in the right hon. Baronet to charge him with making sneering remarks against the Queen's Colleges? The Royal Commission recommended that the number of scholarships should be reduced; and the right hon. Baronet, if he thought that by going to Ireland and sending out circulars for subscriptions for
 446
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that the Professors of Greek, Latin, English Literature, and others had salaries of £250 a year; those of Chemistry, Modern Languages, Natural History, and Geology, £200, while others had only £100. [Sir ROBERT PEEL said he had given the average.] Those gentlemen were to receive fees as well as salaries, but they received scarcely any fees, because the students had not come. In a great many of the chairs the fees amounted to only £5, £10, or £15 a year, instead of £200, as they were expected to be at first. The Government would do well, then, to augment the salaries of the Professors, but that ought not to be done by suppressing certain chairs. The far better course would be to take the advice of the hon. Member for Pontefract (Mr. Childers), and they would then draw students to the classrooms and augment the fees. He was of
 455
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that no argument could be drawn from the number of students, as matriculation consisted merely in the payment of a 5 s
 MR. LOCKE  asked what had been the result of the Saturday opening.
 MR. LOCKE  said, the working classes probably felt tired in the evening, and had no desire to visit the British Museum. But he should like to know what had been done in reference to opening the institution on Saturdays, now that that day was generally observed as a half-holiday. The question of opening the building on Sundays had not been mooted this Session, and he was not anxious to raise it, because such a strong feeling had been exhibited against it last year by the hon. Members who came from north of the Tweed, and they were numerous in the House that evening.
 MR. LOCKE  said, the Royal Academy gave a conditional promise some years ago to remove from the National Gallery, provided they could obtain accomodation suitable for carrying on their school of painting. But from that time to the present nothing whatever had been done.
 MR. MAGUIRE  rose to make an appeal to the good feeling of the noble Lord at the head of the Government on a matter which involved both public interests and his own private character. A sense of duty had led him on a number of occasions to bring before the House the very painful subject of the destitution which prevailed in certain parts of Ireland. On the last occasion he made several statements with regard to a particular locality in the county of Cork on the authority of a competent person whom he had sent down to that district to examine for himself the state of things that existed there. Before bringing the subject before the House, he placed the communications which he had received from this gentleman in the hands of the Irish Secretary, and desired him to inquire into their truth for himself, Mr. Horsley, a Government officer, was accordingly despatched to investigate the circumstances of the locality. In answer to his speech in the House the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) stated that Mr. Horsley visited Cape Clear and Sherkin, to which reference had been made, and reported, that although there was much distress there, it was not more than prevailed in ordinary seasons. Upon receiving that reply, he was, of course, to use a common phrase, "knocked over." A few days afterwards, however, he saw a report of a meeting which was held in the Union of Skibbereen, at which Mr. Horsley, in a report to the guardians, urged them to relieve the people in those islands, as otherwise they would certainly die, and he said that what he (Mr. Maguire) had stated was not in the least exaggerated, but was literally true. He was indebted to the courtesy of  The Times 414
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, the right hon. Baronet had not answered the first part of the Question, as to Mr. Horsley's official Reports to the Commissioners.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he rose to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether Mr. Horsley, Poor Law Inspector, has made his official Reports to the Irish Poor Law Commissioners, respecting the several districts in the west of the county Cork, which he lately visited, with a view to ascertain their condition; and whether there is any objection to lay such Reports before Parliament; also, whether he would object to lay before Parliament any Reports made to him by Mr. Horsley of the same districts?
 MR. J. R. MILLS  thought there could be nothing more pettifogging than to object to a Vote of £500 for a University which was in association with so many colleges throughout the country, and which was conferring so much advantage in promoting the education of the middle classes.
 MR. ROEBUCK : Sir, I wish to explain the circumstances under which the notice on the paper which stands in my name was given. It appears there is a young gentleman in Wales of the name of Jones. This young gentleman was lately seized with a desire to change his name, for which a variety of motives might be suggested. Probably the sort of reputation which Brown, Jones, and Robinson have obtained conduced to that wish on his part. He assumed the more aristocratic name of Herbert, and, under legal advice, made it public to all the world by advertising that he had taken this step. Like a great many other gentlemen in this country, he was exceedingly anxious to pay his respects to his Sovereign but was informed that he could not do so, because he had changed his name without Royal licence. Like the rest of his countrymen, he was desirous of giving his aid to the protection of his country, and of joining the militia; but Lord Llanover, the Lord Lieutenant of the county, informed him that he could not have a commission in the name of Herbert, because his name was Jones. There still remained that honourable course of usefulness which belongs to our English country gentlemen, and he wished to have his name put on the commission of the peace. The Lord Lieutenant, however, declined to apply to the Lord Chancellor to insert his name in the commission, for the same reason which I have just mentioned. It has been said that the Home Secretary used his high authority to assist the Lord Lieutenant in preventing this young gentleman, in these three separate instances, from indulging his very proper desires as a country gentleman, I hope that is not the case, as I should be sorry to see the power of the Secretary of State used for the purpose of personal spite, or of aiding any body of public functionaries in obtaining fees for useless forms. I lay it down as a rule of law that every man in this country has
 431 "That any person may take any surname, and the law recognizes the new names when assumed publicly and  bonâ fide Bingham, N. C "That no Act of Parliament, or Royal licence, is needed in order to sanction a change of name, unless a new name is directed by a donor of land, or money, to be assumed by the donee, with such or some other particular sanction, and subject to the forfeiture of the donation if the name should not be assumed in the manner directed by the terms of such conditional donation."—Lord Chief Justice Tenterden (5  Barnwell and Alderson "A name assumed by the voluntary act of a young man at his outset into life, adopted by all who know him, and by which he is constantly called, becomes, for all purposes that occur to my mind, as much and effectually his name as if he had obtained an Act of Parliament to confer it upon him." "That when a name is assumed by Royal licence it is so assumed by the act of the person taking the name, and the name is not conferred by the licence."—Lord Chancellor Eldon (15  Vesey's, R "That the effect of a Royal licence is merely to give publicity or notoriety to the change of name."—Chief Justice Tindal, &c. (1  Bingham, N.C "That when, by any Act of Parliament, Judges have the control of a particular roll of names, they will, on change of name, direct the new name to be added to the roll, though such name has been assumed without a Royal licence, and by the mere act of the person whose name is on the roll."—Chief Baron Pollock, &c. (22  Law Times "There is no special law governing surnames. To establish or recognise an aristocracy of names—of names licensed by the Crown in opposition to names assumed without such a licence—would be a folly of the most contemptible kind. All persons, of all degrees, may change their surnames when they please. Asking for the licence of the Crown to change a name is a modern practice. It is a voluntary intrusion, which is simply to be well paid for." "It has been said that persons are not received at Court if their names are changed without a Royal licence. There is nothing to sustain this opinion. All public functionaries are obedient to the law, and no public officer connected with the Court would assume to establish or to suggest a rule contradictory of what the Judges have declared to be the law, unless he were a Lord
 432 "He could oppose no impediment to the assumption of his family name, but that he hoped it was not the intention of all persons of the name of Jones in Wales to become Herberts." 433
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  asked, what steps had been taken to afford greater facilities to the working classes to visit the Museum? As there were such grave objections to the opening of the Museum on Sundays, he thought it hopeless to attempt it.
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  suggested that it should remain open till ten o'clock on Saturdays.
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  hoped that every exertion would be made to make the Museum available to the working classes, and that it might be opened after two o'clock on Sundays.
 MR. DILLWYN  could not think his hon. Friend the Member for Truro was justly liable to the imputation of acting in a pettifogging spirit. He should support the Amendment.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for War, When he will bring on the Vote or
 441
 MR. TORRENS  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether the Commissioners of Woods and
 410 Vict
 MR. WHITBREAD  said, the matter had been already explained by his noble Friend the Secretary of the Admiralty. There were five wooden vessels being built at the different dockyards, which, including that building at Pembroke, it was proposed should be cased with iron. But this was not to be confounded with any intention on the part of the Government, against which a strong opinion had been expressed in a recent debate, to embark in a large system of iron ship-building. These were wooden ships to be cased with iron—they were not iron ships. The  Achilles
 MR. WALPOLE  observed, that according to the reports of Mr. Braidwood and a very able chemist, great dangers would arise from the use of gas; in fact, scientific people were agreed that the collection would be spoiled altogether.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he could not answer the question. The Museum had been opened on Saturday evenings. If kept open later, the general opinion of scientific men was that oil or candles would not give sufficient light, and that gas would injure the specimens.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that for a portion of the year — namely, from May to the middle of August—the Museum was kept open until eight instead of closing at five. He wished that the facility thus afforded was more generally appreciated by those in whose behalf the arrangement had been made than hitherto had been the case.
 MR. WALPOLE  then rose to move a Vote of £99,012 for the British Museum. The right hon. Gentleman said the alterations in the amount this year were few and not very important. The total amount of the Vote was £99,012 against £100,414, showing a reduction of £1,402 upon that of last year. There was an additional charge of £2,200 for the increased expenses attendant upon throwing open the reading-room to the inspection of foreigners and country visitors during the holding of the International Exhibition, and another £1,000 for additional attendants. That sum the Trustees proposed to provide out of the surplus arising from the Votes of the preceding year. The increase upon several items for the present year arose from the greater attendance in the reading-room, and from the necessity of appointing one or two additional officers in the manuscript department. Upon some other items there was a decrease, and he hoped the Committee would give the Trustees credit for a desire to observe economy under another head of expenditure—the building charge. The Vote for building had only come under the control of the Trustees within, the last three years, and whereas the Vote was at that time £22,000 odd, it was reduced in the next year to £19,000 and some hundreds. It was now £2,249 less than last year, and he hoped that there would be a further reduction in future years. There were only two points in addition which he need refer to. Under the former regulations of the reading room, gentlemen were admitted from the age of eighteen and upwards. The rooms would only accommodate 330 or 340 persons; but the daily average number of those who attended was beyond that amount. The consequence was, that persons who were employed in severe and more difficult studies were excluded from the accommodation to which they were entitled, by the younger students who could not properly be called readers. The Trustees, therefore, had felt it to be their duty to limit the admission of readers to persons of twenty-one years and upwards, instead of eighteen as at present. Those persons who now possessed the privilege of admission would continue to enjoy it, but no further admissions would be granted to younger students, except in special cases. He would only further observe, that as those Gentlemen who had always taken the greatest interest in the
 457
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he would do so, and asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer when the Report would be taken.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, it had been the constant effort of the Trustees to increase as much as possible the facilities of the public in visiting the Museum. The Museum was now open till eight p.m. He did not exactly recollect the facts relative to the publication of the book about Halicarnassus. It was a very expensive work, and the Trustees took a certain number of copies in order to assist its publication; a certain number could therefore be purchased at a reduced rate, and copies were also given to various institutions. He would make further inquiries
 459
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, that public money was spent uselessly in maintaining the establishment of the Portrait Gallery, for all the pictures might be sent to the South Kensington Museum. He thought the Chancellor of the Exchequer ought to say what the ultimate destination of this Gallery ought to be.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cardwell) had not touched the real question—the salary of the Examiners. He required information why the salaries of the Examiners in English Literature and History had been raised from £50 to £100, and asked explanations with regard to other items.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  thought it would be best to put the University on a permanent footing. Since the House had been in Committee he had counted the number of Members in the House, and found there were six hon. Members on the Opposition benches, four on the Government benches, and—including himself, but not including the economical Member for Halifax (Mr. Stansfeld)— there were below the gangway six "guardians of the public purse."
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he was not at all surprised that the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter) should support this Vote; for the next Vote was for the Scottish Universities, which it was proposed to increase from £16,000 to £20,000. ["Order, order!"] His hon. Friend the
 443
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  likewise believed that an unfair attack had been made upon the hon. Member for the King's County. Complaint was made that the hon. Gentleman had used sneering remarks upon the Queen's Colleges; but what did the House think of the words employed by the noble Lord, who said that there must be a "peculiarity of constitution in the mind of Irish students"? He was afraid the noble Lord had been sitting too close to the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland, whose society he would advise him to get rid of at the earliest possible moment. He referred, of course, to his official society; his personal and private society, no doubt, was extremely agreeable, and perhaps it was its very charm which had induced the noble Lord to place the right hon. Baronet in a position for which he was wholly unsuited. For his own part, he had never expressed any opinion on the subject of the Queen's Colleges. He had received from the right hon. Baronet a circular, addressed to the Roman Catholics of Ireland, asking for subscriptions, which, considering that it was signed by ten or twelve very distinguished gentlemen, all Protestants or Presbyterians, he thought, to use an old Cambridge expression, the most "bumptious" letter he had ever seen. He returned the same answer to that circular that he once received from the noble Lord at the head of the Government to a letter which he addressed to him, asking why no Irishman was included in the Cabinet— that was to say, he returned no answer at all, and he thought the precedent an excellent one. He observed in the Votes that it was proposed this year to increase the salary of the Examiners in English Literature and History by £50; and, as no explanation whatever had been given with regard to the item, he begged to move that the amount be reduced by £50.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, The names of the several townlands in the county of Tipperary which are to be charged with the cost of maintaining ten extra police on account of the late M. Thiebault's murder. Will all occupiers of those townlands be subjected indiscriminately to such extra taxation; and is it expected thereby to stimulate local zeal in detecting the assassin?
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  wanted to know the names of the four townlands.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he wished to make one or two remarks on the general state of the country. He should be very brief, for he knew that the hon. Members were much disposed to count out an Irish question. He thought that the appeal of the hon. Member for Dungarvan was a very proper one. He had read the report with regard to the Skibbereen union, and certainly its tendency was to support the statement of the hon. Gentleman opposite rather than that of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland. He was himself well acquainted with the most notorious district in Ireland; and he never remembered a state of affairs so grave as that which at present existed there. The application of the Peace Preservation Act and the special Commission, so far from affording a remedy, operated as a positive mischief. He would not detail his reasons for so believing; for if he did so, he would not be understood; or if he were, his remarks would be treated by the House and the Government with that indifference amounting almost to insolence with which the opinions of Irish Members were invariably received. The occupiers of property in the neighbourhood in which M. Thiebault was murdered would, if properly applied to, have helped the police to detect the assassins, but they were deterred from doing so by indiscriminate taxation for the support of extra police. By sending these extra police they would impose a tax upon the district of £350 a year. Part of the property in the locality belonged to himself; and one of the tenants, a widow with six or seven children, who could not pay her rent, would be overwhelmed by this taxation. If the Government wished to pacify the country, let them take the opinions of the Irish Members; let them not govern Ireland with
 415
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it might afford his hon. Friend some gratification to know, that as there was a balance to the credit of the Historical Portrait Gallery, it would only be necessary to take a vote of £1,000 this year. At the same time, he could not hold out any hope that the expenses of the secretary's office were capable of diminution. Two entirely different kinds of knowledge were required for the selection of portraits and general works of art. It would be absurd to expect that Sir Charles Eastlake should possess this special kind of talent.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the question of the proper accommodation of national collections was one not very easy of solution in that House, as experience had amply proved; for sometimes, when the Government made a proposal on this subject, they were met by a sudden desire for economy. He would, however, admit that the present position
 463
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the effect would be to introduce a catalogue into the Estimate.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the Report would be taken on Monday week. He hoped the Trustees would submit to the Government an estimate of the expense necessary to open the Museum in the evening lighted with gas. If the gas were placed outside, no injury could result from its Use.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, that that was one of the objects of the British Museum Bill.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the Government only asked for £1,000, there being a balance in hand.
 MR. BAXTER  said, he had serious objections to the principle of paying Theological Professors of Dissenting congregations out of the public purse. Seeing that all the great Dissenting congregations of this country and of Scotland paid their own Professors, he saw no reason why this House should continue year after year to pay for the Dissenting congregations of the north of Ireland.
 MR. BAXTER  could excuse the imputation of motives by the hon. Member who had just spoken, on account of the extreme ignorance he had displayed on the subject. It happened that he was almost the only Scotch Member who opposed the increase of the Vote to the Scotch Universities.
 MR. BAXTER  objected to this haphazard method of striking off a few hundred pounds from a Vote. Such a course could lead to no useful result; and if the hon. Gentleman went to a division, he would vote against his Amendment.
 MR. COGAN  believed, that the drift of one of the observations of the noble Lord the Member for Marylebone (Lord Fermoy) had been misunderstood, for he was understood to intimate that the only effectual method of detecting and arresting crime was through the agency of the Roman Catholic clergy, and that they had abstained from interfering in consequence of some foolish speech which had been made by the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary. He altogether repudiated such an argument. He was quite sure that no speech could tend to relax the efforts of the Roman Catholic clergy to repress crime, and that they would not be influenced in the performance of their duty by any act of the Government or their representative. The efforts of Parliament ought to be directed towards strengthening the hands of the Government in their efforts to remove the stigma which now rested on Ireland; and he believed that the law officers of the Crown would not have advised the issue of a Special Commission if they had not sufficient reasons for believing that they had sufficient evidence to ensure convictions, because, if convictions did not follow, the step which had been taken would be productive of evil rather than good.
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, he would take another opportunity to call attention to the circumstances of this Court Martial.
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, he should certainly move to omit the entire amount of £2,000.
 MR. CONINGHAM  thought a Director of the National Gallery ought to be quite competent to determine the value and authenticity of portraits. He was opposed, on principle, to the distribution of collections, because in time the fragments grew into great establishments. For that reason he believed the suggested removal of pictures to Burlington House would be attended with great expense. The true way to obtain space sufficient for all the
 465 d
 MR. CONINGHAM : I beg your pardon. I think quite the contrary. I think it a case of undue leniency to Captain Robertson.
 MR. CONINGHAM  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether Colonel Bentinck, of the Fourth Dragoon Guards, has been placed on Half Pay according to regulation, "by Medical Certificate"; and if not, why the new regulation of 1861, under which no officer has been allowed the privilege of being placed on Half Pay until after n service of twenty-five years as a Commissioned Officer on Full Pay, has in this case been disregarded and set aside? He also wished to ask, Upon whose advice the finding of the Court Martial has been rescinded, and Captain Robertson, who had been sentenced to be cashiered, has been sent back to his regiment, and Colonel Bentinck has been forced to retire?
 MR. GREGORY  disagreed from the suggestion to stow away the portraits of the great men of the country in the badly lighted corridors of that building. Regarding these pictures apart from their artistic merit, he thought it of importance to be able to form some notion of the appearance of the great characters that had
 464
 MR. MONSELL  complained that his Question had not been answered, and objected to any increase in the value of the scholarships.
 MR. MONSELL  said, the real question had been correctly raised by the right hon. Gentleman—whether these colleges had served the purpose for which Parliament voted the money. They were intended to include Catholics; but in 1859, of forty-five students who obtained degrees at the Queen's University, fifteen were Catholics and about twelve or fourteen others took degrees at Trinity College. Out of 4,500,000 of the population who were Catholics, less than thirty a year obtained degrees. The reason that so few Catholics took advantage of the Queen's University was, that no one could take a degree there unless he came from the Queen's Colleges; and the Catholics, upon conscientious grounds, objected to the system of education at the Colleges. He suggested that instead of the Government appointing the Senate of the Queen's University, vacancies should be supplied by election, and that any student, no matter where he had matriculated, should be allowed to come up for a degree. He admitted the right of the State, which gave the money, to fix an intellectual standard, and he did not care how high it was placed, provided those who reached it were admitted to
 451 Memoirs
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he would beg to inquire, whether the right hon. Gentleman did not know that Mr. Laing's statement had appeared in full in the  Bengal Hurkaru
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he had been told by an officer of the British Museum that the people were only allowed to walk through a portion of the rooms, and that they could only see the backs of the books in the library.
 MR. TITE  wished to know what were the arrangements under which the Trustees of the British Museum had subscribed towards the publication of a very important and valuable work on the  Antiquities of Halicarnassus
 MR. TITE  held that it was a mistake to condemn an important collection like the National Portrait Gallery, and to determine that it should proceed no further, simply because it had outgrown its present site. If it were not so already, it would one day become one of the most interesting collections in the kingdom.
 MR. FRANK CROSSLEY  did not believe that it was any benefit to these Professors to be paid out of the State funds.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, that the greater the objection was to opening the Museum on Sundays, the greater was the necessity for making it as available to the working classes on week days. He thought that it should be kept open to the latest practicable hour in the evening, and that the access to it should be facilitated in every possible manner.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  hoped that some reason would be given for keeping up the zoological specimens at a cost of £1,500 a year. There was an excellent living collection in the Zoological Gardens; and whenever he saw those mangy lions and tigers in the British Museum, he regarded them as rubbish. Why have stuffed animals, taking up room, and costing so much money, when such excellent living specimens were to be seen in the Zoological Gardens?
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  asked what was the nature and object of the institution.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  suggested that the Estimate should include the names of the persons whose portraits were exhibited in the Gallery.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, the noble Lord (Lord Fermoy) seemed to imply that the efforts of the Roman Catholic clergy for the repression of crime depended on the degree of courtesy they received from Her Majesty's Government. That was certainly not the case. They used every effort to repress crime, as was their duty as ministers of the Gospel; and if they were ever so much insulted by the Government, they would continue to do so. The steps taken by them in reference to
 420
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  objected to the appointment of two Examiners in Forensic Medicine, and hoped the office would be suppressed.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he did not wish to prolong this somewhat desultory
 424 425 426
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I have taken no part whatever in reference to this matter, except to acknowledge the receipt of a letter from Lord Llanover, the Lord Lieutenant of the county, transmitting me his correspondence with Mr. Jones. The hon. and learned Gentleman has first asked me whether or not Mr. Jones, of Clytha, has assumed the name of Herbert without Royal licence, I do not know whether he has or not; all I know is that he has not applied for a Royal licence to change his name. I am not aware that the Lord Chamberlain has refused to permit him to be presented at Court in consequence of such change of name, nor do I think that such can be the case, because the change of name took place in March, and there has been no opportunity for his presentation at Court since that time. I believe I may answer the next Question also in the negative, because I do not know that the case has been before the Horse Guards. The names of officers of the Militia are submitted to the Queen upon the recommendation of the Lord Lieutenant, who, in this instance, I believe, refused to give that recommendation. I have not refused to ask the Lord Chancellor to place Mr. Jones on the commission of the peace, and never had any application from Mr. Jones that I would do so. The practice is for the Lord Lieutenant to recommend county magistrates; such recommendations never go through the office of the Secretary of State. I was wholly unaware of the circumstances of this case except from a letter which I received from Lord Llanover, dated the 11th of March, in which he forwarded to me a copy of the correspondence between himself and Mr. Jones; but I am requested by Lord Llanover to state that he did apply at the office of the Secretary of State to know whether Mr. Jones had made an application for a Royal licence to change his name, when he was informed that he had not; and he also inquired whether commissions must be made out in the; real names of the persons to whom they are granted, in answer to which he was told
 434 bonâ fide Army List
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to know if the right hon. Gentleman was prepared likewise to produce any authentic account of the speech made by Mr. Laing?
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  rose to move
 "That, whatever policy is adopted in regard to the Indian Navy, it is the opinion of this House that the guarantee given to the Indian Officers by the Act 21&22  Vict 437 438
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  denied that he had made any mistake. He thought the sneering observations against the Queen's Colleges came with a bad grace from the hon. and learned Gentleman, seeing that he himself belonged to one of them. With regard to the number of students who entered Queen's College, Belfast, in the Session 1861–2, the Parliamentary Return was accurate in stating it at 152.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, it was intended to charge four townlands with the expenses of the extra police, but the matter was still under discussion. All occupiers would be charged except, as he had said before, the brother of the murdered man. As to whether it would stimulate local zeal to detect the assassin, the charge was in the nature of a penalty on the locality where the crime has been committed.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he could not give the names. They were, however, in the immediate locality of the murder.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, it was true that another unfortunate attempt at murder had been made in the county of Clare. The shot had passed through the gentleman's arm, but he was not killed. He did not know whether the assassin had yet been arrested, but the Government were taking every measure in their power to repress these deplorable acts. The Special Commission would issue some time between the 15th and 20th inst.
 MR. PEEL  explained, that owing to the increase of the number of Professors in each of these Colleges from twelve to twenty, without a corresponding increase of the sum appropriated out of the Consolidated Fund for their remuneration, many of them were at present underpaid. The Government were prepared to consider a plan for reducing their number, so as to make the permanent provision for the Colleges suffice; but, in the mean time, as such a plan could only take effect gradually, and as this Vote, which was intended to defray the cost of museums
 453
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, the reason was simply that the Examiner on English Literature could not be expected to discharge his duties for £50, while others were paid £100 for similar work. He thought a salary of £100 was not at all too high for the services rendered.
 MR. PEEL  said, it was not intended to initiate a series of Votes for the purpose of establishing a National Gallery in Ireland. An understanding had been come to between the Government and the Trustees, to carry out which this Vote was proposed. The Vote was asked for on exceptional grounds, and would be for this year only.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, the Government intended to recommend a reduction of three professorships in each College, making a total reduction of nine. He might mention that it was originally proposed that there should be only twelve Professors, though the number was afterwards increased to twenty. The original proposition also was that they should have, with fees, about £280 a year each; whereas, in consequence of the increase in the number, the salaries averaged only about £170—an amount which was wholly inadequate to the duties to be performed. It was true that some of the classes had not succeeded as it was hoped they would, and it was probable that the professorships which had been more particularly referred to—in particular the Professorship of the Celtic Language—would not be continued.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that what was required was more students. He saw no reason for altering the system.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he should prefer not to lay them on the table of the House.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, Mr. Horsley had made the Reports which were specially desired of him; but he thought it would establish a bad precedent if the confidential communications of subordinate officers to Members of the Government were, as a general rule, submitted to Parliament. He did not wish, therefore, to lay any portion of those Reports on the table of the House.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I can assure the hon. Member for Dungarvan that I am satisfied no Member of the House imagined that in the controversy, if I may call it so, between himself and my right hon. Friend, any question arose as to the veracity of either of them. Each of them made statements founded upon information which he believed to be correct, and that is all that any Member of this House can be expected to do. It remains to be ascertained whose information was the best-founded. The hon. Gentleman wishes for the production of a report made by Mr. Horsley to the Poor Law Commissioners. I have not seen that document, and I am therefore unable to say whether there is in it anything which ought or ought not to be made public. I will call for it, and examine it; and when the House meets again, I will inform the hon. Member whether there are in it any names or other matters which it would not be desirable to publish, and whether the substance may be given without making public matters the publication of which he would himself admit to be objectionable. My hon. Friend who has just sat down (Mr. Scully) seems to wish that his countrymen should return to that state of stupidity, which, he says, is the only condition of mind in which Ireland is tranquil. I do not quite agree with him in that respect; but, no doubt, the events which have recently occurred in that country are most deplorable; they indicate something in the public mind of Ireland
 416
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I beg to move that the House, on its rising, do adjourn till Thursday next.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : It would seem as if there must be some peculiarity of constitution in the mind of Irish students, for it is certainly a strange argument that an increase in the number of prizes to be obtained in a university or college discourages students from coming to it. It may happen from various other causes that students are not so numerous, but I think it a very odd assertion that by the multiplication of prizes you diminish competition. Certainly, the feeling among Irish students must be very different from that of students in other parts of the world if they are discouraged on account of increased rewards held out for successful study.
 LORD DUNKELLIN  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, If the Government have considered the Memorial of the Royal Atlantic Mail Company; and if they have determined on renewing postal communication between Gal way and North America?
 MR. CORRY  rose to call the attention of the House to the necessity of increased
 468 469 "I do not hesitate to say it is a national danger we are incurring in being so badly provided with dock and basin accommodation for our large steamships. After a naval engagement the country that can first repair its ships damaged in action thereby doubles its force. In that case, one ship with proper dock and basin accommodation is equivalent to two." "Although great efforts have been constantly made to keep pace with the increased size of our ships, yet the magnitude of the ships has gone on so much more rapidly than was anticipated, that the dock and basin accommodation, although it has been year by year increased, falls infinitely below the necessities of the service." 470 Arrogant 471 Defence 472 Warrior 473 Defence Warrior 474 475
 MR. COREY  explained that he had particularly referred to iron-plated seagoing ships, such as the  Defence Royal Sovereign
 CAPTAIN TALBOT  said, he considered the question before the House not only one of efficiency, but of economy; because, by a judicious expenditure of money in providing dock and basin accommodation, a large amount would be saved to the public. The present system of fitting, arming, provisioning, and storing our ships in the stream was utterly absurd; and the sooner it was put an end to the better, which could only be done by having large and deep floating basins, with ample quay accommodation. When he looked across the Channel, he found that France had seen the necessity of abolishing the system; and the mercantile marine of this country had also given, it up, in consequence of the very large ex-
 487 Warriors 488
 MR. G. L. PHILLIPS  hoped that the Government would give due attention to the capabilities of Pembroke, which was most favourably situated for works of this description.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he certainly was under the impression that the evidence would have been delivered immediately. The copy brought to him appeared to be in a perfect state, and he had requested that copies might be placed at once in the Library for the inspection of Members, fully believing that in a day or
 495
 LORD NAAS  inquired whether it was the intention to make any alteration in reference to the convict establishment at Bermuda?
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, there was no intention to send any more convicts there, and he believed that so far as it was a convict station it would be abanoned.
 MR. PEEL  said, that the explanation of these balances was, that in the first instance these colonial charges were met out of the Treasury chest, and the sum voted
 496 agreed to
 MR. PEEL  said, that the accounts of 1861 were not completed on the 28th February last, and therefore all the claims on account of that year were not yet made. It was impossible to complete the accounts sooner.
 MR. TURNER  thought it would be an unwise economy to cut off the small expenditure incurred in Western Africa. The trade to the Gold Coast was important and increasing, and attempts were being made to produce cotton.
 MR. PEEL  said, the £41,000 had been spent, and further claims had been made on the Treasury.
 MR. PEEL  said, that with regard to the several points to which the hon. Gentleman had called his attention, he had gone into them with the assistance of the Audit Board; and though it would be very difficult for him to explain intelligibly to the Committee these matters of detail, yet he could asssure them that the explanations he had received were perfectly satisfactory. The first part of the Vote referred to a sum issued for services at the Cape as long as fifteen years ago. At that time endeavours were made to obtain repayment from the colonial funds; but difficulties were made, and the subject seemed to have been lost sight of when the constitution was granted to the colony. The Committee of last Session, however, directed the attention of the Government to £21,000, portion of the amount, and suggested a settlement. Communication was in consequence had with the Colonial
 513
 MR. PEEL  said, that the first item was a charge which was governed by fixed regulations, and provided for the freight of specie to the several Treasury chests abroad. He did not think it was open to the objection made to it by the hon. Member. As to the other large items, the rate of exchange in the East involved a great loss. The net loss provided for in the Estimate arising from transactions for the supply of the Treasury chest in China, in the year 1860–1, was £217,971. It arose entirely from the difference between the value of the dollar as purchased either here or in China, and the value at which it was brought to account in the books of the Treasury chest. The only real loss, however, was in respect of the payments of the troops, because in paying them the dollar was taken at 4 s d s d s d
 MR. WHITE  found that this country paid five times as much for the conduct of its trade with Turkey as for the conduct of its entire trade with the United States. He was of opinion that the consular establishments in Turkey required curtailment.
 MR. PEEL  believed, that the boundary had been traced, and that the Commissioners were now on their return home. The present Vote, added to the £60,000 voted last year, would be nearly sufficient to defray the whole expense, which could not exceed £110,000 altogether.
 MR. PEEL  replied, that the Commission was a joint Commission, and that the United States Government paid half the expense.
 MR. PEEL  could give no such assurance; but such was his belief.
 MR. PEEL  believed they were entirely agreed with us.
 COLONEL DUNNE  hoped a tracing of the boundary line would be laid before the House.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX , in moving for an Address for a Return showing the results of the late experiments made with Armstrong or other guns at Shoeburyness within the last six months, and specifying various particulars, said, he was surprised to find
 531 Warrior minutiae
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that if there was any particular experiment as to which the noble Lord wished for information, and he would give notice of a question respecting it in the usual manner, he would answer such a question; but it was not usual for the Military Department to give a detailed Return of the results of an experiment like this. The Admiralty had not felt themselves justified in laying upon the table the report of the Iron-plate Commission which had been lately presented, and it contained detailed accounts of a series of experiments, exactly like that mentioned in the Return now asked for. He trusted that the House would not think it necessary to insist on the production of such a Return.
 LORD NAAS  opposed the Motion.
 LORD FERMOT  supported the Motion.
 COLONEL DUNNE  was of opinion that the Committee should not be increased.
 MR. KINNAIRD  thought the expenditure ought to be compared with the trade between this country and Turkey, for a large trade could not be carried on without a commensurate expenditure on the diplomatic service.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  asked for an explanation of charges for two countries that had disappeared from the map of Europe, the Two Sicilies and Sardinia.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  wished to know, whether the sum now asked would practically close the account. If so, he should be satisfied.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, he believed that the physical and scientific difficulties in the way of tracing the boundary between our possessions in North America and those of the United States were so great that it would he almost impossible to accomplish the work. He thought the Government should submit to the House an estimate of the entire cost of the Commission, and should also state when the undertaking was likely to come to an end.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  was glad to hear that there was a prospect of the speedy termination of this charge. At any rate, the Vote was a less evil than the possible expenses of another Kaffir war.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  understood that the Hudson's Bay Company had a legal claim upon the Government, and under those circumstances it would be a most unusual course for the House to interfere with the payment.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  wished to know, whether the expense had been borne by both Governments.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  considered that ships of the  Royal Sovereign Prince Albert 480 Warrior 481 Warrior Achilles Warrior 482
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, it was quite true the Committee which had considered the subject of the transport of troops and the transport of emigrants, had expressed an opinion that it would be advisable to have both those departments of transports brought into the one office; but the Colonial Office thought that there were great objections to transferring the man-
 516
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he was glad to find that his right hon. Friend had made upon this occasion a much more moderate proposal than that of which he originally gave notice; but, nevertheless, the present proposals of the right hon. Gentleman would involve a great increase in the public expenditure. In answer to the right hon. Gentleman's observations, he (Lord C. Paget) believed he could show, that though the present dock accommodation might not be so extensive as many persons considered requisite, yet, on a calm review, there was no cause for alarm as to any evil results to the efficiency of their fleet in time of war from a want of such accommodation. His right hon. Friend had referred both to the dock and basin accommodation, and of course he had drawn comparisons between the extent of that accommodation in England and France. He (Lord C. Paget) was perfectly willing to admit that the French had gone to an enormous expenditure in the construction of their dockyards, but he denied that we ought necessarily to imitate the policy which might have induced the French Government to create works of such magnitude. It might have had reasons for employing large bodies of men in its seaports as a question of public policy, quite independent of considerations of the real requirements of their navy. The French Government went to a much greater expenditure on public buildings of every kind than we did in this country. That might or might not be an advantage to France; but he believed the course adopted in England was the wisest—they only constructed great public buildings when absolutely required. Instead of creating great public establishments with a view to future wants, they were satisfied to create them according to the wants of the day. However desirable it might be
 476 477 478 Achilles Agincourt Warrior Royal Sovereign Prince Albert Royal Sovereign Prince Albert
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  asked for an explanation of this Vote, a large portion of which seemed to have been advanced without the sanction of the colonial authorities. It was stated in the
 512
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  asked, why this Vote was necessary, seeing that there was £41,000 of credits in the Exchequer on the 1st of April last.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  noticed the item of £1,500 for "inquiry into the Finances of Turkey;" and inquired whether this mission were undertaken for the benefit of the taxpayers of this country, or for the good of Turkey? The taxpayers should not be called upon to pay this sum unless they received some adequate return for it. The result was certainly satisfactory, for we had discovered that the Government of a great Empire could be carried on at an expense of only eleven millions a year, while this country had to pay seventy millions. Yet, on the other hand, this sum was virtually paid for a  quasi 524 casus belli 525
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he was astonished at the denial made by the Under Secretary for [Foreign Affairs, that we had been at war with Mexico. He (Lord Robert Montagu) must therefore call a witness into court to prove that point. The witness should be no less a person than the noble Viscount himself. The noble Viscount, in answering the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli), the other day, accounted for the great expenditure of this year and last year and the year before. In doing so he particularly mentioned the war with China and the war with Mexico as unavoidable
 526
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  would ask the noble Viscount whether it were not the case that the Conventions to which the noble Viscount alluded, were not entered into a very short time ago, in order to regulate the payment of the interest on a former loan, and merely grew out of that loan? He would also ask whether the 600,000 dollars were not stolen by Miramon's Government—from whom no satisfaction was required; and whether it was not the fact, that when his opponent, the popular President Juarez, came into power, then satisfaction was claimed by the noble Viscount? Juarez showed his inability to pay the sum at once, but secured the sum on public buildings; among which, he delivered over even the National Palace, as a pledge. This was stated by Sir C. Wyke, our Minister at Mexico, in the despatches laid upon the table of the House. The noble Viscount had therefore proved that the war arose out of the loan, and out of that alone. He was glad, however, to hear the noble Viscount disclaim for the future all intention to levy war in order to secure the capital of money-lenders. This statement would tend greatly to discourage the system of loans.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, this sum was £22,000 greater than last year, and there were six new charges for Consulates in China, which amounted to upwards of £14,000; so that the upshot of our Chinese war was, that after having expended several millions we were now to be saddled with a payment of nearly £20,000 for Consulates. What were the results of all that we had done? Our imports from China in 1857 were to the value of £11,500,000; in 1858 they were only £7,000,000; in 1859, £9,000,000; and in 1860, £9,330,000. Our exports to China were in 1857 about £1,660,000; the same in 1858; £2,500,000 in 1859; and £3,000,000 in 1860. Therefore we paid the Chinese a great deal more than we received from them, and the balance of trade was against us. He wanted to know, then, what advantage did we derive from all that we had expended upon wars with China?
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, the Government could not have a Consul at a place within the Queen's dominions; and as Lagos had been, without the sanction of the House of Commons, annexed to the British Crown, perhaps the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs would not object to omit the salary of the Consul at Lagos.
 LORD WILLIAM GRAHAM  asked for some explanation.
 LORD WILLIAM GRAHAM  inquired, whether, when the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary spoke of the Vote as one of an expiring character, he meant that it would expire when all the magistrates expired?
 MR. AYRTON  said, the attention of the Committee ought to be directed to the enormous expense of the establishment at Constantinople. A palace had been built, at an expense of £85,000; then a Vote for a chapel, which was at first refused, was taken, and then another Vote; and then upwards of £50,000 was spent upon consular buildings. Having expended nearly £140,000 on public buildings at Constantinople, one would have expected that the annual charge would be reduced; but it appeared to have increased in pro-
 522
 MR. FINLAY  called attention to the item of £25,000 for freight of specie in aid of Treasury chests abroad, and to that of £156,147 10 s d
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  objected to the appearance in this Vote of sums paid for the salaries of Governors of colonies having representative institutions, and called attention to the appearance for the first time of an item of £300 for the salary of the Chief Justice of the Bahamas of which, if it were not explained, he should move the omission.
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  asked, whether this would be a final settlement?
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  asked for further information beyond the words "an estimate of the sum to defray expenses consequent upon the resumption of Vancouver's Island from the Hudson's Bay Company by the Crown."
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  wished to know if the whole affair was now wound up; and he also expressed his opinion that it was objectionable that they should have to vote money for carrying out emigrants, of whom he thought there must have been very few.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  called attention to the large balances which were in hand in the case of most of these Votes; and asked whether, that being so, it was necessary to vote such large sums of money. On the 28th of February the balances upon fourteen Votes amounted to £102,000, while the amount asked for was £117,000. It certainly deserved consideration whether, if these balances were returned in hand on the 1st March, it was worth while to vote such large sums. With reference to this particular Vote, he thought, that as Bermuda was to be nothing more than a military garrison, £4,200 for the salary of a civil Governor, a Judge, and other officers, was needlessly large. He thought the revenue of the island should be amply sufficient to defray the civil expenses.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  remarked, that the number of convictions by the magistrates in Jamaica amounted to about the number of pounds that they received as salaries.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  complained of the expenses of the Gold Coast. He moved that the Vote be reduced by £2,500, half of the amount for the maintenance of forts and establishments.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  asked for a further explanation of the Vote.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  would wish to hear some explanation from the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty with reference to the recommendation of the Committee.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, that the Board had during one year only chartered thirty-three vessels, while the number of private vessels chartered was 354. It was true that to a certain extent those vessels came under the superintendence of the agents of the Emigration Board, but that duty could be equally well performed by the officers of Customs.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, it had transpired in the course of the discussion that evening, that the Emigration Board in London were responsible for looking after the emigration of Coolies from India. It was their duty, therefore, it would seem, to lay down rules for the Coolie emigration in French vessels.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he was not quite able to give an answer to the noble Lord, but he would make inquiries and let him know the result before the report was brought up.
 MR. LAYARD  said, that the new ports in which Consulates had been established promised great results, and would be, he was convinced, of the greatest possible advantage in the way of trade.
 MR. LAYARD  said, the sum of nearly £2,000 for telegraphic messages was a large one, but the couriers who were formerly employed entailed a much heavier expense. As for the sum of £1,300 for boat-hire—if our Ambassador lived in Constantinople in summer, the expense of his residence would be much larger. But all the Ambassadors left the city in that season, and therefore the two residences were necessary. The sum for the Embassy was large, but he trusted that in time it might be reduced. As regarded the Paris expenditure, it had been thoroughly investigated at the Foreign Office, and not a shilling had been laid out which was not well accounted for. As to the question of his right hon. Friend (Mr. Bouverie), the statement of expenditure was for the year 1860–1, when the Two Sicilies and the Kingdom of Sardinia were still in existence.
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reference to the Morocco loan, that all we had to do was to allow our agents there to receive a portion of the Custom-house dues, and to hand them over to the creditors of Morocco. He also denied that we had been at war with Mexico. The road to Erzeroum, to which allusion had been made, had not, he was afraid, been carried out, as ought to have been the case; but the Turkish Government would, he trusted, see the expediency of taking the matter vigorously in hand.
 MR. LAYARD  explained, that on the occasion referred to his remarks were avowedly confined to the foreign debt of Turkey. The report of Lord Hobart and Mr. Foster completely verified what he then stated to the House.
 MR. LAYARD  said, that the fact of their having been a great mortality among the Coolies sent to Réunion by the French had been reported to the Government by Mr. Hill, our consular agent in that island, and representations had accordingly been made to the French Government on the subject. There was every reason to believe that these representations would produce an improvement both as regards the class of vessels employed and the treatment of the emigrants. An English Consul had been appointed at Réunion for the purpose of seeing that the contracts with the Coolies were faithfully carried out.
 MR. LAYARD  said, that some time ago a legal Consul was appointed at Constantinople to settle disputes between Her Majesty's subjects, and he was found so useful that a similar appointment had
 520
 MR. LAYARD  said, his hon. Friend had omitted to notice the distinction between Turkey and other countries.
 MR. LAYARD  said, that the Government had not yet decided what reply they should give to the memorialists. The matter had been referred to Her Majesty's Ambassador at Constantinople for his opinion; and when it was received, there would be no objection to lay the papers on the table.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he would not follow his right hon. Friend (Sir F. Baring) in his relation of the facts of this case, as in the main he had correctly stated what had taken place. He agreed that in their dealings with the natives of Africa, as, indeed, with all the world, they should be guided by strict maxims of equity and justice; and he felt confident it would appear that they had dealt both justly and most kindly with Docemo. His right hon. Friend accused the Government of violating international law; but he had really made a great deal of a very small matter. He spoke as if the King of Lagos were the head of a great independent State, instead of a petty chief exercising doubtful authority over a few people. Some years ago Lagos was a perfect nuisance on the coast of Africa. It was the resort of all the slave-dealers on the coast, it was in alliance with the King of Dahomey in his slave-hunts and his butcheries, and the greatest outrages were perpetrated by its population. The English Government were at length compelled to interfere, and an expedition was fitted out against Lagos by the orders of his right hon. Friend, who was then First Lord of the Admiralty (Sir F. Baring). After very considerable resistance, the place was taken. It became by conquest the possession of the British Crown, if we had chosen to take it. This, however, we did not do; but we removed the then ruler, Kosoko, putting Akitoye, the predecessor of Docemo, in his place, and established a kind of protectorate. Such protectorates were always unfortunate in the result. We had all the responsibility, without any of the advantages of possession. Docemo, who shortly afterwards succeeded Akitoye, became a mere puppet in the hands of a party at Lagos. We were compelled to maintain a vessel of war there to protect our interests, and the Consul at last asked for
 509 510
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, that as the case of the  Circassian
 MR. ADDERLEY  wanted to know whether, after the arrangement was concluded, the Hudson's Bay Company would still exist?
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that however satisfactory it might be to hear that the Crown could not buy Vancouver's Island of the Hudson's Bay Company twice over, and that another Vote would not be asked for the same purpose, he still wished to know what we were to have in return for these payments, and he should also be glad to know whether any similar arrangements had been made with respect to transfer of the rights of the Company on the mainland.
 MR. ADDERLEY  inquired, whether the Company had any claim upon the mainland, and also whether the Government would furnish a Statement of Account as to this £55,000, showing what it had been paid for.
 MR. ADDERLEY  complained that this Vote, although it had been diminished, had not been reduced to so great an extent as the House had a right to expect. If the Emigration Board was simply an agency for procuring emigrants for certain Australian colonies, in whose despatch we had no interest, why should the charge of that department be thrown upon the Imperial Treasury? Other colonies maintained emigration agents of their own in England, and he did not see why these should not also. Moreover, if the Board was to be maintained, why should it be separated from the Colonial Office, to which it ought properly to belong?
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, there was a treaty between the two Governments that there should be a boundary line. The American Government were acting with us in order to trace that boundary and prevent disputes. It was surely reasonable that it should be traced at the expense of both parties.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  thought it could not be said that the Government of this country had no interest in securing due care and protection for such of our poorer fellow countrymen as wished
 515
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he was very sorry that the Crown had been obliged to buy Vancouver's Island at any price, but it became necessary when the Government determined to form a colony at Vancouver's Island. The matter was part of the arrangement made in 1849, and every farthing of this sum had been expended by the Hudson's Bay Company—in fact, it was only the balance after giving credit for the proceeds of the sale of lands. With respect to the mainland, the claim of the Company was of a very minor character, and it had been compromised upon favourable terms.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, there were a considerable number of emigrants. He would take care that a detailed account should be prepared.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, it was a Vote which never could appear again in the Estimates, but it was a Vote without which the Crown could not resume possession of the Island. In the grant of 1849 to the Hudson's Bay Company it was provided that the Crown should have the power of resuming possession of the Island at any time after the expiration of the licence to trade, upon payment to the Company of the actual amount which they had expended in establishments, bringing emigrants there, &c. The Company demanded a much larger sum than £55,000. There had been a great deal of negotiation between the representatives of the Treasury and of the Colonial Office and the Company. A compromise had at length been arrived at, and legal proceedings of a very protracted and expensive character had been avoided.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, the colony had paid a very considerable sum towards the expenses of the Royal Engineers. It had defrayed a larger proportion of its military expenditure than
 497
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, that the Vote was an expiring one, and would die with the last recipient. It had at one time been as much as £21,000. In fact, since the Vote had been framed, one of the recipients had died.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he had last year given a sort of pledge that the supply of blankets should be discontinued. On inquiry, however, he found that these blankets were strictly in the nature of personal allowances to the Indians, and on the same footing as the pensions. There was a list of Indians above sixty years old, to whom these charitable allowances were made, but the Vote would disappear altogether with the decease of the present recipients.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  replied, that the question they were now discussing in no way affected the Hudson's Bay Company's charter; but their power would cease under the agreement over all territory west of the Rocky Mountains except as a private company.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, that he confidently believed that this would be a final Vote. At the same time, there was a slight difference between the Government and the Company, and a claim
 499
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  could not give any positive information at present; but he could say that the subject was under consideration of the Colonial Secretary.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he could only refer the Committee again to the Company's charter. The amount of the Vote represented the value of establishments handed over to the Government and the amount expended in conveying settlers from this country.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, the land laws of Vancouver's Island and British Columbia were of a most liberal character, and were on an equality with the land laws of the adjoining territory of the United States.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, the Vote had been gradually diminished, vacancies either not being filled up at all, or the charges on account of new appointments being- transferred to the colony. The Vote was strictly therefore of an expiring character. When these magistrates were appointed, the colonies to which they were sent out were in a state of transition from slavery to freedom. In 1835–6 their salaries amounted to £69,000; they were now reduced to £10,800.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he very much agreed in the general principle laid down by the hon. Gentleman, as to the duty of colonies haying representa-
 500
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he hoped that this was the last, or at any rate the last instalment but one, of a series of Votes, to meet a grant of £40,000 voted in aid of British Kaffraria. It had been intended not to ask for this sum; but when the proposal was notified to the Governor of the colony, so strong a protest was made, accompanied by detailed statements, that the Government thought it right to ask for this sum.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  explained, that though they had great influence on this part of the coast of Africa, the Government had very little dominion or taxing power. It was extremely difficult to raise any revenue by customs duties, on account of the competition of the adjoining Dutch forts; and they were obliged to ask for a small annual Vote to curry on the civil government of the territory. He hoped the Amendment would not be pressed.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, that was exactly what he did mean—that it would expire when all the magistrates died or resigned.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he would direct the attention of the Colonial Secretary to the subject.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, when a short time ago the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs stated the debt of Turkey at £14,000,000, he entirely omitted the domestic debt. It appeared from the report of Lord Hobart and Mr. Foster that the entire debt of Turkey, external and internal, amounted to £42,000,000.
 MR. PEACOCKE  asked for explanation about the miscellaneous charges for the Turkish Embassy.
 MR. PEACOCKE  suggested, that when any measure was in future proposed for enclosing any land in the vicinity of the metropolis, the attention of the House ought to be specially drawn to that fact. No one would imagine, from what appeared on the face of this Bill, that the Forest of Hainault, situated within nine miles of London, was intended to be enclosed by it. This was a matter seriously affecting the health and recreation of the poorer classes inhabiting the east end of the metropolis, and neither the House nor the Government ought to afford facilities for such encroachments.
 MR. PEASE  asked, whether the United States Government had consented to the boundary so far as traced?
 MR. PEASE  asked, whether emigrants were encouraged by grants of land or minerals?
 MR. CHILDERS  complained of the reappearance of the charge of £3,500 for the salary of the Governor of Jamaica, which the House had been twice promised had been voted for the last time. In 1835, when a promise was given that this item should not appear on the Estimates again, it was stated that negotiations were pending with the Colonial Legislature which rendered it inconvenient that the amount should be struck out at that time. The Governors of colonies having representative institutions ought to be paid by those colonies.
 MR. CHILDERS  called attention to the fact that for years past the revenue of Sierra Leone had been more than the expenditure by as much as £2,000 a year. Now, he thought under these circumstances the colony ought to bear a portion of the general expenses of the Coast.
 MR. CHILDERS  asked, whether any conclusion had been come to as to separating the Government of Vancouver's Island and that of British Columbia.
 MR. CHILDERS  was afraid that the Committee could take no other course than grant the money, although it would have been better if they had had some explanation in reference to the items. The Company by their charter were entitled to be paid, not simply the value of the things existing on the Island, but the actual money which they had expended.
 MR. CHILDERS  wished to know how it was that the disbursements at Paris under the head of Miscellaneous Expenditure should have exactly amounted to £1,000 a year. Had they contracted for Miscellaneous Expenditure at that sum?
 MR. CHILDERS  said, there had been in one instance a delay of sixteen years in presenting the estimate. He wished particularly to call attention to the item of £21,772, representing sums advanced on account of the colony from 1846 to 1853. The third Report of the Select Committee on Public Accounts, which was referred to for an explanation of these Votes, did not, in point of fact, contain any such explanation. This was an audited account; but although it had appeared year after year as having been audited, and was supposed to have received a thorough examination by a Board independent of the Government, the items had been altered in the account this year, and did not correspond with those printed in former years. It was true that the difference was not large, not exceeding £150 in any one case; but the fact that any such difference existed showed the necessity of further inquiry into the mode of auditing these accounts.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, there appeared up to 1858–9 advances on account of British Kaffraria £23,000, but in this account the same advances were stated to be £57,000. How was the difference to be reconciled?
 MR. FREELAND  believed that a memorial had been received from British residents in Constantinople with reference to the introduction of trial by jury in civil cases, and also a report from the Judge of the Consular Courts, containing his views upon the question. Would there be any objection to lay copies of that memorial and report upon the table of the House?
 MR. FREELAND  had, on a former occasion, called attention to the growing amount of the sums required for the repairs of the Ambassadors' residences at Constantinople. They were now asked to Vote a sum of £11,728 for extraordinary disbursements connected with the Embassy at Constantinople. This was a sum enormously in excess of the sum demanded for similar purposes in connection with any other Embassy. He thought that the whole expense of the Establishment at Constantinople ought to be thoroughly looked into.
 MR. FREELAND  expressed a hope that the whole matter would be carefully considered.
 MR. FREELAND  said, that they were voting large sums for an outlay arising out of their connection with Turkey. In this Vote alone no less a sum than £12,090 in the whole was asked for. He should like to know whether the reforms promised by the Turkish Government, especially those in which British subjects were interested, were being carried into effect? He particularly wished to know, whether the route from Trebizond, by way of Erzeroum to Tabrez, over which great quantities of British merchandise passed to Persia, had been improved?
 MR. FREELAND  said, that the sneers of the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs at the arguments of the right hon. Baronet (Sir Francis Baring) were, he thought, much out of place. The Under Secretary had sneered at the idea of ap-
 511
 MR. CLAY  said, in the absence of the hon. Member for Sunderland (Mr. Fenwick), he would beg to ask the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Whether the attention of Her Majesty's Government has been called to the repeated interference of United States cruisers with British vessels trading to the West Indies, and particularly to the case of the steamer  Circassian
 MR. DODSON  wished to know why the allowance to the Consul at Cologne was double what it was last year. It had been stated he performed the duties of postmaster in receiving the mail-bags. Had the correspondence so much increased? He observed that the Consuls kept at Chicago and Buffalo were still kept up, although the Select Committee stated that the necessity for these officers was very doubtful. At all events, if necessary, they were kept up for Canadian purposes.
 MR. DODSON  said, the loss ought to have been inserted in its proper place— the Military and Naval Estimates.
 MR. HENNESSY , in reference to the charge of £100 a year for the Chief Justice of Anguilla, remarked that the revenue of Anguilla amounted to £414; the territory was sixteen miles long and two broad; the number of the white population was under 100, yet a Court of Queen's Bench, a Court of Common Pleas, and, he believed, a Court of Chancery, were kept up in Anguilla. It was now proposed to pay the Chief Justice at the rate of £1 per head for the white population.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he rose to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether the only Candidates who obtained the degree of LL.D. at the last examination of the Queen's University in Ireland were at that time Professors in the Queen's Colleges and Examiners at the University; whether Charles P. Reichel, whose name appears in the recent Report of the Queen's University, page 23, as receiving the degree of M.A. in 1861, is the same Charles P. Reichel whose name appears at page 20 of the same Report as receiving the same degree (M.A.) in 1860, and whose name appears at page 26 of the same Report as the Examiner in Latin to the same University; and whether the same gentleman has not been since 1849 a Professor in Queen's College, Belfast?
 MR. LAIRD  said, the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty now admitted that Government were constructing a dock at Bermuda, and a second dock at Malta, though he turned into ridicule the suggestions which he (Mr. Laird) had made upon the subject of docks on a former occasion. [Lord C. PAGET: Not at all.] It was not he, but the noble Lord himself that talked of building docks all over the world. His own observations were confined to our stations abroad. As the noble Lord had made that statement, he (Mr. Laird) supposed that his representations had produced some effect, and he should not go into details upon which he should otherwise have entered. There was one point in particular to which he wished to call attention, and his views upon the subject were confirmed by those of the responsible officers of the Admiralty—the want of basin accommodation. That want had caused a great increase of cost to the country in the management of the navy, for when a ship was obliged to refit in the stream, as the men were obliged to go backwards and forwards in boats, and all the stores had to be taken out, a great part of the time was lost. So greatly were the advantages of basin accommodation valued by the merchant service, that docks had been constructed in the Thames on both sides of the river. In the evidence which Captain Washington and Admiral Robinson gave before the Chatham Dockyard Committee, they stated that the want of basin accommodation was very demoralizing to the men employed, who lost 20 per cent of their time going backwards and forwards; it added to the expense, and created great difficulty in carrying on the work. The whole basin accommodation now in all the Government dockyards was only about forty acres. And yet an enormous sum of money had been spent on those dockyards, into which they constantly saw that vessels could not enter. About £1,500,000 within a few years had been spent in patching and altering the docks. Would it not be better to see at once whether, by a judicious construction of docks,
 483 Warrior Warrior Warrior Warrior 484
 MR. LAIRD  wished to know, whether the money had been well expended? He therefore asked, whether the American Government were so far agreed with us as to the boundary?
 MR. J. H. PHILIPPS  said, the Committee which sat last year on the extension of Chatham dockyard had confined themselves to the subject referred to them, and were not deserving of censure for not going beyond their instructions.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is the intention of Government to introduce any measure to amend the Law relative to the working of Coal Mines?
 MR. M'MAHON  moved, that the Select Committee on the Fisheries (Ireland) Bill do consist of 19 Members, and that Lord FERMOY and Mr. GEORGE, be added to the Committee.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, that the fortifications were to be constructed with reference to a particular gun not yet made. How, then, could the House enter upon a discussion as to the expediency of constructing those fortifications if it had not the specific information now asked for? The House voted the money for these experiments, and why should it be left in the dark as to the results? He had been assured that the target had not been penetrated in the course of this experiment; that the shot had stuck in the skin; and that nobody would have been hurt on board a ship so defended. With regard to the diagram which had been spoken of, he had a photograph showing the impact of the balls upon the target. There was no secret about it, and he did not see why the Government should make one.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he would do that too.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he wanted the noble Lord to give a pledge that the cost would not be repeated.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  wished, before the Speaker left the chair, to draw the attention of the Secretary of State for War to the non-performance of his promise with regard to the evidence taken by the Defence Commission. Before the adjournment for the Whitsun holydays he reminded that right hon. Gentleman that a copy of this evidence had been more than a week in the Library of the House, and the right hon. Gentleman undertook that it should be in the hands of Members soon after the House rose. Now, up to that evening it had not been delivered. As the right hon. Gentleman had given notice that he intended to bring the question to which that evidence referred before the House on the 23rd instant, it was extremely desirable that the evidence should be placed in the hands of hon. Members without delay. The question was a nice one, and would require a great deal of consideration. Perhaps the right hon. Gentleman would also state whether he meant to proceed by Bill or otherwise on the 23rd instant.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  thought that
 529
 MR. R. W. DUFF  could not congratulate the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Corry) on the time he had chosen for bringing forward a proposal to spend a million and a quarter on dock accommodation.
 MR. WHITBREAD  did not intend to follow the hon. Baronet the Member for Portsmouth (Sir J. Elphinstone) through the whole of his speech, nor would he say more of the alarming picture he had drawn of the frightful and disgraceful state of demoralization into which the British navy had fallen, owing to the practice of fitting out vessels in the stream than that he did not believe it to be accurate. The hon.
 489 Warrior 490
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, he had frequently heard it complained that the agreements made with the Coolies were never carried out. These persons were British subjects, and ought to have the same protection as the labourers imported into the English colonies. To say that the Coolies on their arrival in the island might appeal to the British Consul was perfectly useless.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, there was nothing in reference to the Vote which came within the Army Estimates properly speaking; and when those Estimates were laid on the table, and when he made his financial statement, this matter escaped his attention.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that although the immediate point was susceptible of the explanation which had been given—namely, that the sums issued in the colonies without direct or adequate authority remained as a general charge against the chest until it was determined to which heads those issues properly belonged, yet it did not remove at all the substance of the case of his hon. Friend. The substantial question had first to be settled; and when it was determined to what head they belonged, they were placed under the year in which the issues took place under that head. He was not saying anything in censure of the conduct of the Governor of the Cape, or of any colonial Governor; but, apart from the motives which actuated them, a most material question remained to be settled—whether the Governor was or was not justified in issuing greater sums than what Parliament had voted. In such a vote as this the House of Commons was ousted of its control over the expenditure of the public money; and, moreover, the Executive Government at home was just as much ousted of its control as the House of Commons. These occurrences were liable to take place in different parts of the world, and, while crediting the local authorities with the best motives, it could not be expected that they would feel as jealous of Parliamentary privilege and control as the House of Commons. The subject was not new to the Government, and they had been considering in what mode they could prevent the recurrence of these ad-
 514
 MR. BAXTER  said, it was important that no Governor of a colony should be permitted to go on drawing sums of money, looking to be repaid in subsequent years by Votes of the House of Commons; and he was exceedingly glad to hear that the Government were about to adopt stringent measures with a view to prevent so unsatisfactory a state of things occurring in future. He hoped this was the last Estimate of the kind that would be presented to Parliament.
 MR. BAXTER  also thought this Vote ought to have been brought under the consideration of the Committee when the Army Estimates were before them.
 MR. BAXTER  hoped that in future more attention would be given to a Vote
 517
 MR. BAXTER  observed, that there was £2,000 of the sum voted in 1861 still in the Exchequer, so that it seemed that there was an extraordinary system of keeping accounts. He wished to know whether it was clearly to be understood that the payments would terminate with the lives of the present recipients?
 MR. BAXTER  referred to the statement made on the Estimates, that one moiety of the cost of the Royal Engineers would be borne by the colony and another by the mother country, and asked whether the colony had ever, in fact, paid a farthing of the proposed contribution.
 MR. BAXTER  reminded the Committee that the Australian colonies, with the exception of Western Australia and New Zealand, and the North American colonies, with the exception of Prince Edward's Island, paid their own Governors, and he thought it should be urged on the other colonies that they should do the same.
 MR. W. EWART  said, he must press for a detailed account.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, the emigration of the Coolies from India was obtained in such a way that they hardly knew whether it was voluntary or not. The mortality among them even on the voyage to Réunion was calculated to excite suspicion. The Government had been compelled to place the English Coolie traffic under strict regulations, and it was unfair the French should obtain the labourers without observing rules of the same kind. The Government of India should take great care as to the arrangements under which the Coolies left the country, and that the health and comfort of these per-
 519
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  wished the Committee to be distinctly told whether the regulations for the shipment of Coolies in French ships were less stringent than those which applied to emigration in British ships. There ought to be the same regard for the comfort and health of the Coolies whether they were shipped in French or English vessels.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER , said, he was glad to have the distinct declaration from the noble Viscount that the money lent to the Turkish Government was lent purely at the risk and peril of the capitalists who advanced it. It was most questionable whether the Government should give any sort of sanction or authority to any
 528
 MR. GREGORY  gave his cordial support to the course pursued by the Government at Lagos. The question lay in a nutshell, and the statement of the right hon. Baronet might be easily and satisfactorily answered. Lagos was the port of Abeokuto, a most flourishing portion of the African Coast, but it was a district continually threatened by the King of Dahomey, and was the resort of people engaged in. carrying on the slave trade, and Docemo, if willing, was unable to restrain them. One might have supposed, from the description of his right hon. Friend, that Lagos was inhabited by a set of Quakers most peaceable and orderly in their conduct, instead of by a number of characters intimately connected with the King of Dahomey, who was engaged in organizing and carrying on the slave trade; and he agreed in the opinion of our naval commander there, Captain Bedingfield, that our occupation of Lagos would do more to suppress that trade than all the ships we could muster along the coast. With respect to the stipulations of our Government with King Docemo, he was to retain his power so long as he acted up to his engagements; but it was perfectly notorious that those engagements with regard to the discouragement of the slave trade, on the maintenance of which his support by the British nation depended, had been violated. Docemo was perfectly unable to restrain the lawless people who were congregated in his territory, and the condition of Lagos was proceeding from worse to worse. His right hon. Friend had talked of the protest of King Docemo against deprivation; but the document to which he referred was dated August, 1861, whereas the last document on the subject was dated March, 1862, in which Consul Freeman stated that Docemo was inclined to sign, but was prevented from doing so by the Whitecap chieftains; but they were afterwards quite satisfied, and the King then signed another article, and received additional compensation. Whether he considered the occupation of Lagos as an opening for British commerce, or as the repayment of a portion of the
 508
 MR. GREGORY  said, he wished to ask the noble Lord when it is likely the House will have the decision of the Government on this question. Large expenses are being incurred in making preparations to carry out the contract in the event of its renewal.
 MR. MASSEY  in the Chair.
 MR. MONSELL  thought that the right hon. Gentleman was mistaken as to the practice of the Department, for, if his memory served him, detailed accounts were laid before the House in the case of the experiments carried on with Mr. Bashley Britten's inventions. The House ought to be thoroughly informed upon everything bearing tin the question of fortification, which would have by-and-by to be discussed, these fortifications being
 532 Warrior
 COLONEL SYKES  said, a hope had been held out last year that the Vote would never be asked for again.
 COLONEL SYKES  supposed we should now see legal Consuls appointed wherever any considerable number of Englishmen were found.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he observed in the Estimate that in addition to a Consul, Vice Consul, and second Vice Consul at Alexandria, two new offices had been created of legal Vice Consul at £600 a year, and a law clerk at £300; and asked for an explanation.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  pointed out that the salary of Consul at Lagos at £500 was continued, although Lagos was now a British dependency. There was also a new post created of Vice Consul at Abbeokuta, with £400 a year.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, the petitions from King Docemo were drawn up by that Prince's own secretary. The Under Secretary of State said he had not heard of any complaint from King Docemo on account of his compensation, but there was a great deal that was quite true which did not appear to reach the hon. Gentleman. The complaint was made to Governor Freeman, and no attention was paid to it.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  rose, pursuant to notice, to move the reduction of the Vote by the sum estimated for the expenses of Lagos—namely, £500 for the Governor, £1,000 for a pension to the ex-King Docemo, and £2,500 for contingencies. He said, that hon. Members would find, from the papers laid on the table, that in 1852 the late King Akitoye made a treaty with the British Government for the suppression of the slave trade. His nephew Kosoko took advantage of the unpopularity of this act; and, backed by the slave interest, drove the king from his throne, and took possession of Lagos. He then set England at defiance, and was deposed by the British Government. Akitoye was restored to his kingdom, and at his
 503 "Lagos, from being a haunt of piratical slave-dealers in 1851, has, from its geographical position, and the great resources of the country adjoining, become the seat of a most important and increasing legal trade. The value of the exports, even during the past year, by no means a favourable one, is nearly £250,000 sterling." 504 "Are convinced that the permanent occupation of this important point is indispensable to the complete suppression of the slave trade in the country; while it will give great aid and support to the development of lawful commerce, and will check the aggressive spirit of the King of Dahomey." "Her Majesty's Government would be most unwilling that the establishment of British sovereignty at Lagos should be attended with any injustice to Docemo, the present chief of the island; but they conceive that as his tenure of the island in point of fact depends entirely upon the continuance of the protection which has been afforded to him and his predecessor by the British naval authorities since the expulsion of Kosoko, no injustice will be inflicted upon him by changing this anomalous protectorate into an avowed
 505 Prometheus Prometheus 506 507
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, a Bill was in preparation which would be ready in a few days, the object of which would not be so much interfere with the general working of mines, as to provide for the construction of a second shaft, in cases where that was practicable.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  thought special grounds ought to be shown for additional names.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the proceedings upon this Bill showed that these enclosures could not take place without the utmost publicity. The Bill confirmed certain orders made by the Enclosure Commissioners, which orders could only be made after due notice to the whole neighbourhood affected. In this case certain persons interested in the question had petitioned the House upon it, and their petition had been referred to a Select Committee in the same manner as if the measure had been a private one. The present arrangement had, he believed, been acquiesced in by all the parties interested. He would, however, consider the hon. Member's suggestion and communicate with the Enclosure Commissioners upon it.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  contended, that if the transport of emigrants was conducted under the supervision of the State, the most stringent measures should be taken to secure seaworthy ships for the emigrants.
 MR. CAIRD  hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would take care that the losses on the remittances to China would next year appear in the Military Estimates, for it seemed we were now likely to have another China war.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, that the Government had entirely altered their tone since last year with respect to the necessity for additional docks and basins. The noble Lord had spoken more like a Chancellor of the Exchequer than a Secretary to the Admiralty, and had, by confounding the two subjects of docks and basins, completely mystified the debate. In the Committee on Chatham Docks last year, of which he (Sir James Elphinstone) was a member, Admiral Robinson was asked whether he considered there was sufficient dockyard accommodation for the existing fleet; and he said certainly there was not, and added that he did not hesitate to say that the want of sufficient docks and basins was attended with national danger. The growth of ships, he said, far exceeded the growth of docks and basins, although great efforts during the last ten years had been made to keep pace with it. He also stated that the creation of a steam fleet rendered an immense amount of dock accommodation indispensable. Admiral Robinson was then asked a question as to the extent of the basin and dockyard accommodation in France; and he said the docks and basins in that country exceeded
 485 486 Pylades Warrior
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, that as the noble Lord had referred to him, he would just state to the House what had actually occurred within his experience. During the Crimean war the Black Sea fleet had to be repaired at Malta. They all had to be docked, and the necessity of docks was greatly increased by the use of steam power. The dock at Malta was one of those docks to which the hon. Member for Birkenhead (Mr. Laird) so well alluded. The dock had been constructed with twenty-one feet of water over the sill, and was just long enough to take in the largest ships that were then employed in the Mediterranean. Shortly after it was constructed, it was found that steam-ships required much more dock accommodation, and it was therefore decided that the dock should be lengthened. It was lengthened accordingly, but the sill was not deepened; and the inner part of the dock being made ten feet deeper than the outer part, there was no possible means of getting ships through the shallow outer dock into the deeper inner one. The ship that he had the honour to command required to be docked at Malta in order to be repaired; and as she drew twenty-seven feet of water, it was necessary to lighten her to twenty-two feet, by taking out all her guns, her coals, her stores, her top-gallant masts, and part of her engines and machinery. The preparations for getting her into dock took a week, while the repairs she had to undergo when they did get her into the dock only occupied three hours. If that dock had been large enough, and the sill as deep as the inner part, the whole of the Mediterranean fleet could have been docked in two days. It had been said that we had 219 line-of-battle ships in 1815. But at that time line-of-battle ships did not necessarily require to be docked in order to be repaired, but it was now indispensable. An old line-of-battle ship could be hove down and repaired wherever it might be, but our
 494
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  thought the object his right hon. Friend had in view in raising this question would be sufficiently answered if he had reason to believe and hope that the serious attention of the Government would be directed to the subject, although he confessed he wished his right hon. Friend had been able to elicit still more distinctly something like an intention to carry out this great object hereafter. He was sorry, however, to say, that although he hoped the hon. Gentleman who spoke last was alive to the importance of the subject, the tone of the noble Lord's speech was rather more evasive than he liked to hear. If he were to render that speech into briefer and plainer English, it would amount to something like this:—"We do not deny the importance of the question, we do not deny that the subject is pressing; we acknowledge that what you propose ought to be done. But
 491 492 Warrior Warrior Warrior Warrior Black Prince 493
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that the Government had nothing to do with the granting of degrees and diplomas in any of the chartered Universities of England, Scoland, or Ireland. The granting of degrees was wholly regulated by Statute. With regard to the degrees of LL.D. at the last examination of the Queen's University, it was true that the three only persons who took that degree were professors—two at the Queen's College, Belfast, and one at Galway. But it must be remembered there were two sorts of degrees, one of which was conferred upon students and the other upon distinguished persons who had taken degrees elsewhere, and who were desirous of becoming graduates of the Queen's University in Ireland; and the gentlemen in question were of the latter class. There was a clerical error in the Report with regard to the repetition of the degree of Mr. Reichel. That gentleman took a degree of M.A., he believed, in Trinity College, Dublin, in 1860, and afterwards an  ad eundem
 MR. CAVE  observed, that if the question was raised as to whether the salaries of those Governors should be made up by the House of Commons, there was this further question to be decided in respect to some of those colonies—namely, whether they wanted Governors at all? It was perfectly absurd to have the expensive paraphernalia of a Court in colonies not larger than an English parish. No doubt there were anomalies connected with the whole of this Vote; but as the Colonial Office had to deal with those colonies when they were in a state of transition, owing to the effects of Imperial policy from which they had not yet recovered, the House might look at the Vote with more favour than they would otherwise be inclined to show it. The Colonial Office had more power in those colonies than it had in larger ones; and although he admitted that, as a general rule, the appointment of Governors had of late been characterized by honesty and conscientiousness on the part of the Government; yet, if the question as to the continuance in office of the Governors were put to the colonies, while some might probably be re-elected for life, others would have no
 501
 MR. CAVE  said, there was an increase in the charge for consular establishments in the island of Réunion above the allowance for last year. This increase they might attribute to the French. The House knew that the French were, after the emancipation of their slaves, very short of labourers in Réunion, and they smuggled large numbers of British subjects from Madras to fill the gap; but their treatment of these people was not good enough, to secure a continuance of this immigration. They then began to import negroes, with which, if it was a free immigration, we had nothing to do, and, if not, it was contrary to treaty. We could not make up our minds as to which it was; but we bribed the French to abandon it prospectively by giving them the run of the labour market of Calcutta, which was far enough from Madras to prevent any evil reports having been received. He felt it his duty two years ago to protest against this treaty, feeling very strongly that we should lose all control over those people so soon as they had passed from beneath our flag. The noble Lord at the head of Foreign Affairs assured him that every care would be taken that the obligations entered into by the French were strictly carried out. The French lost no time in securing the benefit of the treaty, for they sent twenty-eight ship-loads of emigrants from Calcutta to Réunion last season, or more than went to the whole British West Indies. He had heard rumours that there had been abuses even in the embarkation and transit. He had heard also that Her Majesty's Government confessed that no real control could be exercised by the Consul. If not, then it was monstrous to put more trust in the
 518
 MR. CAVE  said, the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs had only answered half his Question, and that unsatisfactorily. We might, indeed, regulate the embarkation in India, though apparently we had not even done this, but the Consul was appointed, as he had understood, when the treaty was ratified, to see that the arrangements were properly carried out in Réunion. This could only be done by sending some one as inspector round the estates to ascertain whether the Coolies were paid the stipulated wages. Rumours were current that the contracts were not carried out, and that these unfortunate people were entirely without protection or redress.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, his hon. Friend (Mr. Layard) had not stated that the Government had not taken any measures against Mexico to obtain satisfaction of our just claims; what he stated was that the claims we had made upon that Government did not apply to debts due to bondholders. The claims against Mexico had reference, in the first place, to the non-payment of certain sums which, by convention, the Government of Mexico had agreed to pay; and in the next to the restoration of a sum of 600,000 dollars which was forcibly taken from the House of our Minister. This money was under seal, and the seal was broken as he was on the point of leaving the country. Such acts as these were national injuries—a breach of faith, and an outrage for which they were entitled to demand satisfaction. He might add that it had been the invariable rule of the English Government not to undertake to require payment for British subjects who, of their own authority
 527
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that his hon. Friend had come down to the House late this evening, and he supposed must have his joke. But he supposed his hon. Friend did not mean that this boundary was not to be traced, or that people were not to be paid for tracing it. The American Government were in perfect concert with ours in this matter, and had agreed to share the expense.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that
 523
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : It is impossible to say beforehand what the decision of the Government on the subject may be.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, a representation was made by the Company, and is under the consideration of the Government. The Government have not as yet come to a decision upon the subject.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he could give no pledge without knowing the facts to which it was to apply. He suggested that his hon. Friend should move for a report of the probable amount that would be required to complete the survey.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, his right hon. Friend (Sir G. Lewis) had undertaken to answer any question which might be put with regard to particular facts after due notice. But that was very different from laying before the House a detailed return such as that moved for.
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department—Government having purchased the Brompton Cemetery in the year 1850, on the strength of a decided opinion expressed in a Report of the Board of Health, that it was one of those which for sanatory purposes ought to be closed, Why has Government kept that Cemetery open, when twelve years have added to the density of the population and the consequent danger?
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether any steps have been taken towards the construction of a 600-pounder Armstrong Gun, or any other Gun of greater calibre than the 150-pounder smooth-bore Gun with which experiments have been made at Shoeburyness; and, if so, when it may be expected to be finished and ready for proof?
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : sir, a 200-pounder Armstrong rifled gun has been constructed. It has been proved within the last week, and experiments will be immediately commenced with it. A 600-pounder Armstrong gun is now in course of construction, and it is promised that it shall be ready for proof in three months. I will also add that a wrought-iron rifled gun is now being constructed by Mr. Lydell Thomas, to throw a projectile of 400 lb. weight, which it is expected will be ready in three months.
 MR. KINGLAKE  said, that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had undertaken to address himself especially to the dispassionate portion of the House—of that portion of the House he humbly claimed to be one—
 576 577 v v 578 "I have not taken any official notice of the decrees you sent me, annexing, not to Sardinia, but to the Italian State, Naples, Sicily, Umbria, and the Marches. In fact, the votes by universal suffrage which have taken place in those kingdoms and provinces appear to Her Majesty's Government to have little validity. These votes are nothing more than a formality following upon acts of popular insurrection or successful invasion, or upon treaties, and do not in themselves imply any independent exercise of the will of the nation in whose name they are given. Should, however, the deliberate act of the representatives of the several Italian States who are to meet on the 18th of February, constitute those States into one State, in the form of a Constitutional Monarchy, a new question will arise. When the formation of this State shall be announced to Her Majesty, it is to be hoped that the Government of the King will be able to show that the new monarchy has been created in pursuance of the deliberate wishes of the people of Italy, and that it has all the attributes of a Government prepared to maintain order within, and the relations of peace and amity without. The obligations of the various States of Europe towards each other, the validity of the treaties which fix the territorial circumscription of each State, and the duty of acting in a friendly manner towards all its neighbours with
 579 plébiscite plébiscite plébiscite 580 Orwell 581 582 583 584
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that if the object of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had been to with-
 585 586 "You will perceive, from a copy of the Queen's Advocate's report which I enclose, that he looks upon this question in a very serious light, and considers that the manner in which the prosecution against the Taylors was conducted was very far from creditable to the Italian Government." 587 588 nolle prosequi casus belli 589 nolle prosequi? Orwell Orwell Orwell 590 Orwell Orwell 591 Orwell? Orwell Orwell Orwell "I understand that Mr. Salter, the master of the  Orwell Orwell Scylla Orwell
 MR. SOMERSET BEAUMONT  said, he could not approve the tone in which the Under Secretary fur Foreign Affairs had criticised the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had brought forward this Motion. The question was a very important one concerning a British subject, and, after the temperate manner in which it had been stated by the hon. Member for Taunton, the Under Secretary ought not to have said it was brought forward in a party spirit. [Mr. LAYARD: I did not say that.] He would remind the hon. Gentleman of his remark, that whenever anything unfavourable to Italian unity was said by the Mover, he was cheered by hon. Members on the Conservative side. An hon. Gentleman bringing forward a Motion in that House was not responsible for the cheers with which his observations might be received. A remark like that made by the hon. Gentleman might be supposed to betoken a disposition to prevent hon. Members from speaking their opinions frankly. Ten days ago a brilliant occurrence took place in that House. A Motion was made for retrenchment—a very unmeaning one, as he thought—and the noble Lord at the head of the Government met it in a straightforward and, he was glad to say, a most successful manner. He said he would not discuss the question as to the particular Resolution that ought to be adopted, but would go at once into another question—
 594 595
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, that his hon. Friend who opened this debate could not have stated the circumstances more temperately or with a greater absence of party feeling, and he could not therefore help expressing his astonishment at the speech of the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs. Had matters come to such a pass that justice could not be demanded in that House for a British subject without an imputation of partisanship against the Italian Government being flung at the Opposition benches? He would maintain that there had been no party in that House more gratified to see the hopes of Italy fulfilled, and Italian liberty thoroughly established, than the men among whom he had the honour to sit. It was all very well for the noble Viscount at the head of the Government to set aside the question of finance, and then to ask what Italy would be if she were in the hands of his right hon. Friend (Mr. Disraeli.) For himself, he demanded that these questions should be discussed on their merits. He was quite as anxious to see Italy in a state of freedom and independence as any hon. Member who sat on the Ministerial benches. What would have happened if Mr. Taylor had been a French or American instead of a British subject? Would a French or American Minister have tamely sat down when a French or American subject had had his house attacked and his estate ravaged, and then told him to seek redress in the law courts of Sardinia, at a lime, too, when Sir James Hudson stated that the judges themselves who heard the case were carried away by
 600 Orwell
 MR. WHITE  said, that whilst he did not agree with the hon. and gallant Member (Colonel Sykes) in his views with regard to the Taepings, he did not think the Under Secretary had given him a proper reply. The Under Secretary told the House that the English Government had nothing to do with the Chinese customs.  Prima facie 619
 MR. DAWSON  said, he did not hold the Chief Secretary for Ireland responsible for the present state of things. The period of the Session when several of those measures were introduced, was a proof of the earnest intentions of the Government; and the House would recognise the assiduity and attention of the right hon. Baronet to all Irish measures. He did not approve of all of them; and, looking at the little progress made in them, and the number of Amendments proposed, he augured unfavourably of the disposition to accept any legislation at the right hon. Baronet's hands. If the Session was to be thrown away as far as Irish measures were concerned, the fault would not be with the Chief Secretary. The failure arose from other causes.
 COLONEL DUNNE  thought, though the Fairs and Markets Bill was opposed by the agricultural population as well as by the Chambers of Commerce of Dublin and Waterford, that the weights and measures clause was a good one. He also approved the object of the Registration Bill. As to the Superannuation Bill, the right hon. Gentleman would not be able to pass it, for the people of Ireland could not and would not submit to it.
 LORD NAAS  hoped that whatever Irish Bills were pressed forward this year, some early day would be appointed for the discussion upon them. Irish Members could not he expected to remain in town much after the first week in July.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, he rose to call attention to a Petition from Resident Fellows and Masters of Arts of Cambridge University, respecting the Act of Uniformity. The Petition went to show that certain provisions in the Act of Uniformity, which required all persons before admission to fellowships in colleges to make a declaration of conformity with the doctrines of the Established Church, were, in the opinion of the Petitioners, injurious to the University, and the Petitioners therefore prayed that those provisions might be repealed. The Petition
 609 610
 GENERAL UPTON  hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would persist in proceeding with the Fairs and Markets Bill.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he could not help expressing his surprise that such a speech as the House had just heard should be delivered by any hon. Gentleman sitting on the same bench with the noble Viscount at the head of the Government. What had become of the " Civis Romanus sum aegis 570 "Her Majesty's Government, relying on the sense of justice which characterizes the Sardinian Government, could have anticipated no other result. But they trust that the Sardinian Government will not stop here. Mr. Watson Taylor and his wife are, indeed, exonerated from the penal consequences to which, by a false accusation and an unjust judgment, they had become liable; but they had previously suffered and have since been exposed to very serious pecuniary loss, arising out of the harsh and unjustifiable proceedings taken against them." "With reference to the communication from the Keeper of the Seals, under date of the 6th of January last, informing me that a free pardon had been granted to Mr. and Mrs. Watson Taylor, of the island of Monte Cristo, in respect of certain legal proceedings taken against them by the Sardinian authorities, I am instructed by Her Majesty's Government to express their confident hope that the Sardinian Government will grant indemnity to Mr. Taylor for the losses which, in consequence, he has sustained."
 MR. LAYARD  in reply to the first question said, that the letter to which his hon. and gallant Friend had referred, would be found at page 844 of the papers which had been laid on the table. There might be a mistake as to the date, but no other letter had been received from Mr. Bruce. He thought his hon. and gallant Friend was not justified in making accusations against Consul Harvey. He could not conceive that any one in Consul Harvey's responsible position could be capable of wilfully suppressing information. Up to a very recent date Consul Harvey, who was resident on the spot, reported that no attempt had been made to establish a Taeping custom-house at Ningpo. In reply to the third Question, no such tariff as that referred to had reached the Foreign Office. With regard to the fourth inquiry, the Government were really unable to give the names of all the gentlemen employed by the Chinese Government. They were aware that certain Gentlemen, including Messrs. Lay, Fitzroy, and Hart, men of great ability and integrity, were employed by the Chinese Government to assist them in organizing their customs, which were in a very disordered state. The Government had no official knowledge of the terms upon which they were so employed. Those gentlemen made such arrangement as they thought fit with the Chinese Government, and the Government could not call upon them to send in a statement of their emoluments, as we had no control over them.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he willingly accepted the disclaimer of the hon. Member who had made this Motion, that in bringing the subject before the House he had any wish to make observations hostile to Her Majesty's Government or was influenced by any political motive whatever. But, if that were the case, he thought some of those hon. Members who sat near his hon. Friend did not understand the object he had in view; because, whenever he said anything against the Italian Government, he was loudly cheered by those hon. Members. ["No, no!"] He did not say that there were not many hon. Members on the Opposition side who had not cheered those observations; but certainly many hon. Members near the hon. Gentleman cheered when he made any remark hostile to the Italian Government. ["No, no!"] His hon. Friend had led the House to believe that Mr. Watson Taylor was the object of some great persecution; that he had an enemy in Baron Ricasoli, an enemy in Count Cavour, an enemy in those who were with him on the island, an enemy in the Italian people, an enemy in her Majesty's Government, and enemies among those who sat on the Ministerial benches. [" No, no!"] Well, as far as he could see, the remarks of his hon. Friend led to no other conclusion; but his opinion was that there was no such ill-feeling against Mr. Watson Taylor. He was quite sure, from a perusal of the papers, that his hon. Friend could find no evidence of a hostile feeling against Mr. Taylor on the part of Baron Ricasoli or Count Cavour. And, why should there be? Mr. Taylor was an English gentleman spending money in improving an island which for centuries had
 565 ex parte 566 Orwell 567 Orwell Orwell 568 ex parte 569
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I have always been of opinion that discussion in this House is of great advantage. And when I contrast the speech we have just heard from the First Minister of the Crown with those with which we have been favoured on the same subject from the Under Secretary of State and the Chancellor of the Exchequer, I find renewed evidence to
 605 606 Nisi Prius 607 608
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that having been in the House when the Cambridge University Act was under consideration, he fully remembered the ground upon which the restriction now in question was retained. It had been preserved from no wish to debar any person, not being a member of the Church of England, from any of the emoluments of the University —not in the least; but as the Fellows formed the governing body of the different colleges, and thus in great measure of the Universities of Cambridge and Oxford, it was thought inappropriate, considering that the Universities were the great source of the education of the clergymen of the Church of England, and also of the great body of the laity of the Church of England, who desired that their sons should be brought up according to the doctrine of the Church of England—it was thought and decided, that it would be inappro-
 611
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he was fully aware of the importance of the subject to which the hon. Baronet referred; and something had lately been done for the purpose of improving the postal communication with Vancouver's Island and British Columbia. Arrangements had been made for conveying mails and passengers under a subsidy provided by the two Colonies from San Francisco to Victoria. With reference to the larger question of postal and passenger communication in British steamers from the Isthmus of Panama to Vancouver's Island, there was certainly nothing that would promote so much the growth of the Colonies themselves as British communities; but he could not undertake to say that the Government at present thought it their duty to call upon the House to assist them in that object.
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  rose to call attention to the case of Mr George Graeme Watson Taylor, and to move an address for the correspondence relative to the prosecution of that gentleman for an alleged act of sedition, and the plunder of his residence. Nothing could
 546 547 plebiscito plebiscito 548 "The whole charge is an entire perversion of the truth, and would seem a plot to drive me from the island; and even the authorities would seem to participate, as they were perfectly well aware that on the 29th of April it was not known that Victor Emanuel was proclaimed King on the island of Monte Cristo, and therefore the pretended offence was very slight, if any offence at all; nor have they given any intimation of the island being under the sovereignty of Sardinia." "Your Excellency, after reading these details, will hardly be astonished at my earnest request that these soldiers should be withdrawn, and I most humbly pray your Excellency to give me some aid and advice in my present position. The Vice Consul at Porto Ferrajo is an Italian, and I am afraid is not to be relied upon. The accusation has not been made out in my right name, being Taylor, instead of Watson Taylor, and I have had no intimation of any change of Government; but I should rather stand upon my own innocence, though my case presents some difficulties, particularly when judged in Elba." 549 "On the 23rd inst., Mr. Taylor came to Turin; and having gone over the case with him, I made a further direct and personal, though unofficial, representation of the matter to Count Cavour, who regretted that the proscution had ever commenced, and, whilst he declared his inability to interfere with the proceedings of the law courts, added that he should not fail, if judgment were given against Mr. Taylor, to recommend His Sardinian Majesty to grant him a free pardon." "I had no knowledge whatever of the contentions between Mr. Taylor and justice, nor of the circumstances which had led to them. I heard them mentioned, for the first time, when you thought proper to interpose officiously, in order to obtain for him a remission of the penalty which he had incurred. 550 "When Sir James Hudson had for the third time been refused by the Government any interference with the proceedings, I asked his advice as to whether I should leave Sardinia, and he advised my doing so, and gave my passport for England." 551 Orwell Monarca Orwell Orwell Orwell Orwell 552 553 "Her Majesty's Government, relying on the sense of justice which characterizes the Sardinian Government, could have anticipated no other result. But they trust that the Sardinian Government will not stop here. Mr. Watson Taylor and his wife are, indeed, exonerated from the penal consequences to which, by a false accusation and an unjust judgment, they had become liable; but they had previously suffered, and have since been exposed to very serious pecuniary loss arising out of the harsh and unjustifiable proceedings taken against them. The property of Monte Cristo had been lawfully acquired by Mr. Watson Taylor; but he was violently ousted from it, and his goods wantonly wasted, without any sufficient cause. The Sardinian Government have expressed no regret and have offered no compensation, and yet both were due to this British subject for the grievous indignity to which he was personally subjected, and for the wantonness by which his property, when he was himself prevented from further taking care of it, was pillaged or destroyed. I have, therefore, to instruct you to bring the case formally before the Sardinian Government, and to express the confident hope of Her Majesty's Government that indemnity will be granted to Mr. Watson Taylor for the losses which he sustained by the acts of Sardinian authorities, and that a due expression of regret for what has occurred will accompany the tender of amends." "Proceedings had been opened before the tribunals; they could not be suspended. Grace could not, according to our laws, be accorded until after that justice had delivered her award. Condemnation has been pronounced, and that same condemnation proves, that by his unworthy conduct Mr. Taylor had placed himself in opposition to our laws. Nevertheless, in deference to the good offices of the Queen's Government, scarcely had the decree of the tribunal been issued, when the King hastened to grant to Mr. Taylor the entire remission of the pecuniary penalty to which he had been condemned. Thus the desire which you had expressed to me was met. Subsequently to this there has been no complaint made nor step taken by Mr. Taylor." 554 "A further reference was made to Her Majesty's Advocate General on the subject of Mr. Watson Taylor's case, and I enclose, for your information, a copy of the reply which has been received from that officer. There are several points on which he requires more information than has yet readied him, and I have to instruct you to make me a full report of all the circumstances connected with the case. You will also inform Count Cavour that a further communication will eventually be made on behalf of Mr. Watson Taylor for compensation on account of his losses at Monte Cristo." Orwell "You will see from the copy of the Queen's Advocate's report, which I enclose, that he looks upon the transaction in a very serious light, and that he considers the manner in which the prosecution against Mr. Taylor was conducted as very far from creditable to the Italian Government. It is impossible, therefore, for Her Majesty's Government to allow the matter to rest as it now stands; but before I furnish you with final instructions as to the nature of the representations on the subject to be addressed to the Government to which you are accredited, I desire to receive any further observations which you can yourself make, and you will obtain the best legal opinion and transmit it to me at the same time." 555 "The 'persons' on board the  Orwell 556 Orwell's Orwell Orwell Orwell Orwell Orwell Orwell "After some discussion," Sir James stated, "they waived the difficulty with regard to indemnifying Mr. Taylor, and asked me to communicate with him, which I declined to do, observing, that as they by their ship had occasioned the damage, they were bound to make their overtures to Mr. Taylor… It is notorious that the  Orwell Orwell 557 "Sir J. Hudson: 'What about my friend Watson Taylor? Who is to compensate him for his loss sustained at Monte Cristo? Mr. Stedingk answered, 'The Italian Government.' Sir J. Hudson:' No, the owners of the  Orwell; Orwell Orwell Orwell Orwell Orwell; Orwell 558 Orwell Orwell 559 "Men were fighting for liberty in Italy, when General Garibaldi, a brave warrior devoted to Italy and me, flew to their rescue. I could not, and I ought not, to restrain him." 560 "I say, then, that our doctrine is that, in the first instance, redress should be sought from the law courts of the country; but that in cases where redress cannot be so had—and those cases are many—to confine a British subject to that remedy only would be to deprive him of the protection which he is entitled to receive." [3  Hansard "The rights of a man depend on the merits of the particular case; and it is an abuse of argument to say that you are not to give redress to a man because in some former transaction he may have done something which is questionable… Is not that a case in which a man is entitled to redress from somebody? I venture to think it is. I think that there is no civilized country where a man subjected to such grievous wrong, not to speak of insults and injuries to the members of his family, would not justly expect redress from some quarter or other… The Greek Government neglected its duty, and did not pursue judicial inquiries, or institute legal prosecutions, as it might have done, for the purpose of finding out and punishing some of the culprits… But, it is said, M. Pacifico should have applied to a court of law for redress. What was he to do? Was he to prosecute a mob of 500 persons?… Where was he to find his witnesses? Why, he and his family were hiding or flying during the pillage to avoid the personal outrages with which they were threatened." [3  Hansard 561
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, he had never intended to accuse Sir James Hudson of having wilfully misstated the facts of the case. What he had stated was, that in his multiplicity of business he had probably forgotten what had occurred. Having heard the assurance of the noble Lord, and believing that the noble Lord would always act up to what he said, he would withdraw the Amendment.
 MR. M'CANN  did not think the Chief Secretary for Ireland was at all blamable with regard to the Fairs and Markets Bill, which had been brought before the House on several occasions. The Amendments introduced had rendered the Bill impracticable, and for those Amendments the right hon. Gentleman was not at all responsible.
 MR. WHITESIDE : I never recommended the Bill.
 MR. WHITESIDE  thought the House was indebted to the hon. Member who had put this Question, as they were now likely to be relieved of a great amount of labour. The upshot of the reply of the right hon. Baronet was this—that with the exception of the Fairs and Markets Bill, all the Irish measures were to be withdrawn. He gave credit to the right hon. Baronet for industry; but the real cause of his failure was, not any want of a disposition to do what was useful, but that he had no support—no party to back him. This was not the fault of the right hon. Gentleman, but that of the Ministry he served. He thought the right hon. Gentleman had acted wisely in withdrawing those Bills; for he inferred that
 624
 MR. WHITESIDE : Not of your Bill.
 MR. HENNESSY  complained of the waste of time caused by the discussion of measures which, he believed, the Government never intended to pass. He did not, however, attribute the blame to the right hon. Baronet—he thought that the failure of the Irish legislation was due to the unprecedented position of the Chief Secretary, who was without any legal assistance from the Law Officers for Ireland. The anti-Irish policy of the Government was so unpopular that they could not secure the return of any Irish Minister. It was the Irish policy of the Government that had caused the delay and complication of the Irish business.
 MR. HOPWOOD  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether Her Majesty's Government and the Government of France intend to offer to mediate between the Federals and Confederates; and, if their friendly offices are not accepted, whether they would be prepared to recognise the Southern Confederacy?
 MR. VANCE  hoped the right hon. Gentleman would announce the abandonment of the Fairs and Markets Bill and the Poor Law Relief Bill. He differed from those who would like to see the right hon. Member for Oxford (Mr. Cardwell) again Chief Secretary, because he preferred in that office the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth. Like all Irish Chief Secretaries, the right hon. Baronet was, however, surrounded by a clique. If he had gone to a body strongly represented in the City of Dublin—the commercial interest—he would have received good advice. He gathered round him the retainers and admirers of the late Sir Robert Peel. The present Chief Secretary made Protestant and Conservative speeches, but they were not followed by Protestant and Conservative actions. The recent appointments in Ireland were exactly similar to those of the late Chief Secretary, who was surrounded by an Ultramontane clique. The right hon. Baronet meant well, but there were obstacles in his way, and those obstacles were bad advisers.
 MR. M'MAHON  thought that the right hon. Gentleman had made a bad choice in resolving to proceed with the Fairs and Markets Bill, which was objected to by the Chambers of Commerce throughout Ireland. He concurred in the opinion expressed by the hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. Monsell) that the right hon. Baronet should have elected to proceed with the Bills for the amendment of the Irish Poor Law.
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, he rose to call attention to the state of the Irish business now before the House; and to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland with which of the various Bills relating to Ireland introduced by Government it is intended to proceed this Session. On the 14th of February three Bills relating to Ireland were introduced by the Secretary, and were received with the greatest satisfaction, as being a first attempt to legislate for Ireland early in the year. One of these was the Fairs and Markets Bill, which had not yet passed through Committee. The Poor Relief (Ireland) Bill (No. 2) was in a transition state, and some of the important clauses relating to union rating would probably occupy a considerable period. Perhaps the result would be that legislation would be deferred till a more convenient period. As to the Poor Law Superannuation Bill, notice had been given of an intention to move that it be read a second time that day six months. The object of the Bill was to saddle a large number of officials on the land; and the Amendment would, he dare say, meet with a great deal of support. His object in introducing this subject was to facilitate legislation, and to save the time of hon. Members connected with Ireland, and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would state distinctly what Irish Bills the Government intended to proceed with during the present Session.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT : There is, in this case, no dispute that a serious outrage has been committed. I have not heard from either side of the House a single word from which I can conjecture that any one is prepared to deny that outrage, or to excuse it. Then comes the question, what is to be done? The political door has been shut by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who says he cannot hold that the King of Italy is responsible for the piratical expedition. The right hon. Gentleman says, "It is true that the ship with a piratical band, as it is called, started from a Sardinian port and hoisted a Sardinian flag; but, inasmuch as she sometimes hoisted a British flag, and that part of the crew were coerced to join in the proceedings, I will not hold the King of Sardinia liable to make good any loss or injury sustained by the actions of that crew." It is not denied that the King of Sardinia profited by the expedition, as the crew joined the main body, by whom Sicily
 592 "I am not aware if Mr. Taylor has suffered losses which he did not bring upon himself, and which were not consequent upon the facts which the tribunal has established as chargeable to him; but, upon every hypothesis, if he can draw up legitimate reclamations, diplomatic intervention could only take place, it appears to me, when all justice shall have been refused him by competent authority." 593
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, it is quite natural for the House of Commons to engage in discussing cases of this kind, which do not derive their importance so much from what has happened to an individual as from their bearing upon international rela-
 571 572 573 rectus in curiâ 574 Orwell Orwell Orwell Orwell Orwell 575 Orwell; "I am not aware if Mr. Taylor has suffered losses which he did not bring upon himself, and which were not consequent upon the facts which the tribunal has established as chargeable to him; but upon every hypothesis, if he can draw up legitimate reclamations, diplomatic intervention could only take place, it appears to me, when all justice shall have been refused him by competent authority; whereas the tribunals are open to him, and if he has been condemned when he merited to be so, Mr. Taylor may be equally sure that the rights which may belong to him shall not be disregarded." Orwell Orwell
 MR. COGAN  looked upon the Poor Law Amendment (Ireland) Bill as much more important than the Fairs and Markets Bill.
 MR. GREGORY , who had also placed on the paper a notice to call the attention of the Government to General Butler's Proclamation, said, he was not at all surprised that more than one Member should have given notice of his intention to call the attention of the Government to the proclamation now Drought before them. The course which had been pursued in regard to it was neither improper nor unusual. The hon. Baronet (Sir J. Walsh) had quoted certain precedents; but he need not go further than the discussions which had taken place in that and the other House of Parliament to show, that when a great act of inhumanity had been committed by a foreign nation, the House of Commons was perfectly justified in commenting on the proceeding, and the British Government in remonstrating. There had, for instance, during the present Session, been a debate on the conduct of Russia towards Poland, and there had also been a discussion on the conduct of an Italian General in the south of Italy. Government had not failed to express their opinion in regard to both of those transactions. He deprecated as much as any one any fussy or meddling interference with foreign States. He entirely disapproved those homilies and lectures that were too often read by our Ministers to foreign States, and which were infinitely more agreeable to the compilers than to the receivers. He also deprecated the conduct of some hon. Members, who ransacked the newspapers for the purpose of putting questions in that House which were of no possible use, and were received by foreign countries with great dissatisfaction. He entirely agreed with what was said in the vacation speech of the right hon. Member for Huntingdon (General Peel), that such intermeddling tended to produce a general feeling of dissatisfaction towards this country on the Continent, and led foreigners to say, in their hearts at least, with Orlando, "I do desire that we should be better strangers." But when a proclamation repugnant to decency, civilization and humanity had been promulgated and put in force against a people endeared to
 616 A laugh 617
 MR. MONSELL  said, that last year something like a pledge was given by the Government that in the present Session an attempt would be made to pass an Irish Poor Law Bill. This was a subject which ought to be dealt with and which did not admit of any delay, and he should regret
 625
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether Mr. Bruce's letter dated the 1st day of February, 1862, to
 618
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  differed from the hon. Member, and thought the Fairs and Markets Bill much more important than any other Irish measure.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the Cemetery was purchased at the time mentioned by the hon. Member, but not at all with the view he had assumed. It was purchased by the then Board of Health, in order that it might be made available as a substitute for certain Churchyards which it was desirable on sanatory grounds to close. A very full Report was made in 1853 and again in 1856 by Dr. Sutherland and Dr. Holland, from which it appeared that for a considerable number of years burials might be conducted with perfect safety there under the regulations which had been enforced, and no apprehension could arise from the continuance of interments in that Cemetery.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he rose to put a Question to the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies on the subject of the means of communication between this country and Vancouver's Island. The hon. Baronet read an extract from a letter written by a passenger on board an American ship on her way from San Francisco to Victoria, complaining, that though licensed to carry only 800 persons, she had on board between 1,200 and 1,300, and would consequently, if caught in a gale of wind, be exposed to great danger. ["Order!"] He would conclude by asking, Whether it is the intention of the Government to take any steps towards the establishment of a line of Packets between Panama and Victoria?
 SIR JOHN WALSH  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether Her Majesty's Government has received official information authenticating a Proclamation attributed to General Butler, the Military Governor of New Orleans, menacing the women of that city with the most degrading treatment, as a punishment for any mark of disrespect offered to any officer or soldier of the United States Army; and, in the event of an affirmative answer, whether Her Majesty's Government have deemed it right to remonstrate with the American Government against the issue of such an order; and to move for any Papers relating to this subject? The hon. Member said, that when he placed the notice of this Question on the paper, he hoped the answer of the Government would have been that the proclamation in question was one of those fabrications which had been so ingeniously circulated during the civil war in America; for when he first saw the proclamation, it did appear to him absolutely incredible that a General Officer filling so high a position in the United States army as General Butler should have issued an order which must inflict so much obloquy and disgrace. But he had observed in the journals of that morning, and from the letter written by the generally accurate New York correspondent of  The Times 612 613 "Inasmuch as the officers and soldiers of the United States had been subjected to repeated insults from women calling themselves the ladies of New Orleans, in return for the most scrupulous courtesy, it is ordered that hereafter when any female shall by word, gesture, or movement, insult or show contempt for any officer or soldier of the United States army, she shall be held liable to be treated as a woman of the town plying her avocation." 614 615
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he was much obliged to the hon. Gentleman for his good opinion, but the hon. Gentleman was in error in supposing that he was surrounded by any clique. He should scorn to be under the dominion of a clique in the world, and certainly no clique in Ireland had endeavoured to domineer or interfere with the free action of the Government in reference to measures which were intended for the benefit of the country. The question raised by the hon. and learned Gentleman was so comprehensive, that he could not possibly condense his remarks upon it within two hours. It opened the whole question of Irish legislation. He had hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman would begin at eight o'clock, and after speaking three-quarters of an hour allow him ample time to go  seriatim 621 622
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : Your name is on the back of it.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that his Bill differed but very slightly from that in the introduction of which the right hon. Gentleman concurred. The great difference with which the right hon. Gentleman attempted to fix him was in the words "or otherwise," which had actually been before the House since 1858, when they occurred in the Bill of his right hon. Friend the Member for Kerry (Mr. H. Herbert). Yet the right hon. Gentleman had insinuated that he was endeavouring to endow convent schools out of the rates. Such an idea never entered his head; and the intention and object of the words were perfectly clear and simple. The Births and Deaths Registration Bill had also been frequently before the House, and the only point in which his measure differed from that of his right hon. Friend (Mr. Cardwell) was, that he had preferred the plan of his noble Friend (Lord Naas), who was an Irish country gentleman supporten by the majority of Irish country gentlemen, and had proposed to employ the constabulary instead of the medical officers. His (Sir Robert Peel's) only object was to pass such measures as would be suitable to Ireland, and would prove beneficial to the interests of that country. There were other Irish measures also before the House. Among these were the Weights and Measures Bill, and the County Surveyors Bill, which stood for Committee on the 17th of June; the Poor Law Superannuation Bill, which was read a second time on the 15th of May; the Registration of Assurances Bill, read a second time on the 2nd of June;
 623
 MR. BOVILL  said, that in seconding the Motion he had no desire to cast any blame upon Her Majesty's Government, or upon the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs; but he was convinced, that upon a fuller investigation, and a more complete ascertainment of the facts, the noble Lord and every Member of the Government would be convinced that a most grievous wrong had been committed. A great injury had been done and a grievous insult offered to a British subject, who, up to that hour, had not obtained the slightest redress. Mr. Watson Taylor was at the time of the proceedings complained of residing under the Sardinian law, and was therefore entitled to its protection. The proceedings in question against him were commenced in the courts of Elba, and every gentleman who had read the statement of them must have come to the conclusion that they were of a most unjus-
 562 nolle prosequi "Mr. Taylor is accused of having struck the corporal on the breast with his open hand, but without doing him any injury, and of not having yielded obedience to the corporal when ordered to deliver up the key of his oven to a servant to whom Mrs. Taylor had refused to give it. That was construed into an act of resisting the public force, and for having done so Mr. Taylor was condemned to other six months' imprisonment." 563 "It does seem monstrous that such a persecution should be permitted in a country enjoying constitutional liberty." Orwell Orwell 564
 MR. STIRLING  thought the hon. Member for Taunton (Mr. Cavendish Bentnick) had been treated somewhat unfairly from the Treasury Bench. The House would acknowledge that the hon. Member had introduced a subject, by which
 596 Orwell 597 Orwell Orwell "Agreement, to be valuable and considered as ship's articles. We, the undersigned, of our own free will, hereby agree to join in one or more of Garibaldi's men-of-war or transport ships for the purpose of fighting on behalf of the Italian cause as men-of-wars-men under Garibaldi's immediate command, or one of his appointed officers, and there to serve in a brave, faithful, honest, and sober manner. We all understand and agree that we are to be under the same disciplinary law as the army—that is, martial law. For our services we are to receive — francs per month, payable monthly or quarterly, and £200 sterling per gun prize money, to be divided among the crew according to the usual custom, twenty days after the prize enters port." 598 Il Re Galantuomo 599
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, Her Majesty's Government have received no communication from the Government of France upon the subject of mediation; and we have at present no intention of offer
 544
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, having been appealed to as I have been by my hon Friend, I am quite prepared to say that I think no man could have read the proclamation to which our attention has been drawn without a feeling of the deepest indignation. It is a proclamation to which I do not scruple to attach the epithet infamous. Sir, an Englishman must blush to think that such an act has been committed by one belonging to the Anglo-Saxon race. If it had come from some man belonging to a barbarous race that was not within the pale of civilization, one might have regretted it, but might not have been surprised; but that such an order should have been promulgated by a soldier —by one who has raised himself to the rank of General—is a subject undoubtedly of not less astonishment than pain. Sir, I cannot bring myself to believe but that the Government of the United States, when they had notice of this order, must of their own accord have stamped it with their censure and condemnation. We received yesterday a despatch from Lord Lyons communicating from the American newspapers the paragraph read by the hon. Baronet—namely, the order of General Beauregard animadverting on and giving the text of the proclamation to which reference has been made. There will be no objection to produce that paper. With regard to the course which Her Majesty's Government may upon consideration take on the subject, the House, I trust, will allow me to say, that will be a matter for reflection. I am quite persuaded that there is no man in England who does not share those feelings which have been so well expressed by the hon. Baronet and my hon. Friend.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I think there are two persons who have, in different ways, been ill-used. The one is
 601 602 603 604 Orwell
 MR. DAWSON  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether, in the absence of any present limitation of Fares demanded by Conductors of Omnibuses in the Metropolis, it would not be desirable to place these public conveyances under the same regulations as Hackney Carriages; and, whether the Government would undertake legislation with that object?
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that the Government would, of course, accede to the proposition which had been made if they could believe that it would expedite the progress of the measure, or render the consideration of it more diligent and effectual. They desired, however, that the Bill should pass this Session; and they felt it their duty to ask the House to proceed with the Bill at once, without referring it to a Select Committee. If the Select Committee were to serve any useful purpose, it must include not merely Gentlemen interested in land, but those who were acquainted with the legal questions; and he did not believe that they could secure the attendance of the latter. If there were a Committee, he should himself he compelled, at whatever inconvenience to himself, and at whatever risk of interruption to his other duties, to be constant in his attendance on that Committee; but it was not in human nature to expect his hon. and learned Friends voluntarily to sacrifice their professional engagements for that purpose. The result would be that they would reserve all their objections and Amendments until the Bill again came before the House, when the same objections which had occupied the Select Committee would have to he repeated. That was the reason why, at that period of the Session, the reference of a Bill to a Committee was reckoned fatal to its progress. He hoped, therefore, that they would con-
 648
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said,
 649
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  explained that the condition referred to by his hon. and learned Friend applied only
 650
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he found in the Bill, which had on its back the name of the hon. and learned Member for Suffolk (Sir F. Kelly), in a former Session, a provision equally indeterminate with regard to the amount of the establishment to be created as the provision in the present Bill, to which the hon. and learned Member had objected. That Bill provided for a registrar's office, with officials whose salaries amounted to £8,800 a year, besides the power of appointing clerks, servants, and messengers at the discretion of the Treasury. These provisions were very much the same as those of the hon. and learned Gentleman's own Bill, and, in fact, every Bill for the same object must contain very much the same provisions. As to the expenses of the Court, it was thought that as the business increased the fees would defray the expenses. As to the appointment of assistant registrars and other officers, the approbation of the Treasury was required as a check that no more officers should be appointed than were really necessary. With regard to the other objections which had been urged, he was of opinion, that if Parliament thought that the passing of the measure would be advantageous to the country, it must place confidence in those to whom the administration of justice was confided, and believed that they would be anxious to obtain the most efficient persons for the discharge of the duties under the Bill. No doubt, the same class of persons with those who now advised upon titles under the direction of the Court of Chancery would be selected; and they would do the same thing as at present, but with a more direct and clear responsibility. He was surprised to hear it said that these matters should he done in open court, and he put it to the Committee whether it would be expedient to expose a man's title to examination in open court before it was declared to be good. The real truth was that the Bill established a Court of Registration, which would be exactly similar to the Landed Estates Court, though it bore a name less imposing, and would therefore probably work with less expense to the public. The decisions of the registrar would be subject to an appeal to the Court of Chancery, and, if difficult questions
 654
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, his hon. and learned Friend (Sir F. Kelly) had entered into a discussion which might legitimately be raised on the 14th clause, but which had no bearing on the clause now under consideration. The present clause simply proposed, that if it appeared that a title was good and marketable, save in respect of some contingency which had not happened, it should be lawful for the Judge to make a declaration of the validity
 656
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, there was really no tenable distinction between "valid marketable title" and "good and marketable title."
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that this objection went to the principle of the Bill, which was to ascertain and record the truth about the whole title and every part of it. He could not help thinking that his right hon. and learned Friend was echoing the bugbear about the registry of assurances. He believed that the provision which his right hon. and learned Friend objected to would be of great benefit. In regard to the objection as to boundaries, he must remind him that the provision that the boundaries should be set out on maps, and that the attention of the owners of contiguous estates should be called to these maps, was the same as was enforced without difficulty and without giving rise to litigation in the Encumbered and Landed Estates Courts. He could not admit that the owner of every estate was doubtful about his boundaries, or that the clause would create litigation. If uncertainty existed, it was desirable it should
 659
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, any landowner applying under this Act must give a description of the lands he claimed; and if they abutted upon property owned by the noble Lord, notice must be given to him and his tenants, and they would have the opportunity of tending before the registrar.
 MR. MONTAGUE SMITH  thought the clauses would be found inadequate for the protection of adjoining landowners, and some additional protection should be given them. In all questions as to boundaries a map should accompany the description; and some provision should be made for referring such questions, in-
 662
 MR. HENLEY  thought the provisions of the Bill deficient with respect to the safeguards by which titles were to be settled. This point had been urged by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate), and had not been answered.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, it was a mistake to suppose that the clause provided for the final settlement of the title. It merely applied to the result of the preliminary investigation which was to take place before any notices were issued, or any persons were brought in by advertisement to defend their interests. Ample notice was provided for by subsequent clauses,
 MR. HENLEY  said, it was true that those clauses gave ample notice to the persons included in the description of those who were, or might be, entitled to the land; but the question was whether this description, as provided in the section now being discussed, would be accurately settled, he wanted to know how it was proposed to secure that this abstract should contain the names of all parties interested. If any person interested were kept out of the abstract, there was at present no security that he would receive any notice whatever. The hon. and learned Gentleman had now, for the first time, talked about this as a preliminary investigation. Was there, then, to be another one?
 SIR JOHN HANMER  observed, with respect to manors, that it would he unjust that the owner of the minerals underneath the surface should be bound by any proceeding which the lord of the manor, who was only the owner of the surface, might take. He hoped some words would be introduced providing expressly, and not merely by implication, for this case.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that when the Committee came to the clauses relating to the record of title, it would be fit to consider whether any more express provision should be made for a case of that kind. The present clause had reference to one of the formal steps in the process of registration. In the first instance the investigation of title would be exactly such as took place in the Court of Chancery when a title was investigated as between the parties before the Court. The next thing was to reduce into form the results of the investigation, and those results would be placed on the register, unless persons, after notice, came forward and made valid objections. With respect to the objection that persons having possible or contingent interests might be injured without notice, that was a danger that was inseparable from any scheme of indefeasible title; but experience in Ireland and of conveyance in England proved that there was practically no danger of any such result occurring. The principle of the clause was the same as that embodied in the Bill of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir Hugh Cairns), and no greater securities could be adopted against what was only a possible danger.
 MR. MONTAGUE SMITH  moved an Amendment in the clause with a view of requiring an accurate description of the property to be embodied in the notice.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  acceded to the Amendment, and suggested the further addition of words requiring a map or plan of the property in question to be deposited.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the object of the clause was to secure that notice should be given to all parties entitled to receive it. He believed that object was effected by the clause as it stood; hut by an alteration of a subsequent clause he would take care to leave the question of boundary open where it was in dispute.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, he was glad to hear that the Government were going to give this question their careful consideration. He believed that Kensington was, on the whole, the cheapest and most desirable situation for the national collection. He could not concur with his right hon. Friend in approving the government of the British Museum by Trustees, and if he had the honour of a seat in that House next year, he should move an address to Her Majesty, praying that in future the Estimates for that institution might be moved by a responsible Minister, and that £100,000 of the public money might not be annually expended under the direction of gentlemen who held their offices merely because their grand-
 667
 LORD EDWIN HILL  moved, as an Amendment, that the Bill be read a second time that day three months.
 COLONEL DUNNE  thought this Bill the very worst in the category of Irish measures. The Poor Law seemed to be made the favourite engine of wringing money in every way from the Irish taxpayers, and, looking to the present amount of the rates, he looked with alarm to the coming winter.
 LORD NAAS  recommended that the Bill should be postponed for another year, though he was himself in favour of the principle of superannuation.
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  said, it was unfair towards Poor Law Officers to cast
 668
 LORD LOVAINE  said, that the Inclo-sure Commissioners only acted where there was no dispute as to boundaries.
 LORD LOVAINE  said, he possessed property in a county where there was a great deal of waste land, and he wished to know whether, in the event of neighbouring landowners applying under this Act, he would be obliged to defend his rights or supposed rights?
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he rose to ask the Vice President of the Council on Education, Whether arrangements have been made at the Council Office for the appointment of Clerks and Deputy Inspectors to assist in the Examinations required by the New Code; and whether, before such appointments are made, an
 637
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs to explain (which the hon. Gentleman was not able to do the other evening) how it was, that although Lagos had been annexed by this country, there was in the Estimates a charge of a Consul at that place?
 MR. AYRTON  said, he was glad that at last they had the distinct issue raised whether they would adopt the scheme of this Bill or the plan of the Commissioners represented by the hon. and learned Gentleman—the scheme of a registration of the fee simple or the registration of all the interests. In his opinion the great advantage of the Bill and of the clause before the Committee was that every right and every interest being put upon the record, litigation upon questions of difficulty would be avoided, he hoped, therefore, that the Committee would pass the clause.
 MR. AYRTON  said, the object of the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Suffolk was to make this Bill the same as that which he had himself introduced. The hon. and learned Gentleman's Bill was no doubt fortified by the Report of the Royal Commission, but it had been condemned as impracticable by all the learned conveyancers of Lincoln's Inn. The object of the present Bill was totally different from that of the hon. and learned Gentleman's magnificent but impracticable scheme. The peculiar merit of this more modest but practicable measure was, that it would enable the owner of an estate to obtain from the court a declaration of all the rights and interests existing in that estate at the moment of his application. The Bill would get rid of an enormous pile of deeds relating to that estate, because the declaration of title would make them unnecessary. He approved of the Bill, and thought the speech of the hon. and learned Solicitor General on the second reading proved that the scheme recommended by the Royal Commission could never be carried into effect.
 MR. LAYARD  begged to explain, in answer to a Question put to him on a previous evening, that the Governor of Lagos and the Consul were one and the same person. The Governor had consular powers in the Bight of Benin, and was paid £500 out of the Colonial Estimates, and £500 out of the Foreign Office Estimates.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said it appeared to him that to give an inferior functionary such important powers was a very dangerous innovation. No record would be kept of the proceedings of such a tribunal, but that difficulty would be obviated by the formation of a court.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  observed, that in Scotland there was a register of titles, and he was acquainted with an estate in reference to which an error of a few words made the tenant for life tenant in fee, and gave him the power of disposing of the whole property. The plan now proposed was, not that the deeds should be copied, but that an abstract should be made of them, and that the title should be according to that abstract; and therefore they were not to register existing titles, but to create new titles; and the only security that there would be was the discretion and ability of the person who made the abstract, and upon this very important rights would depend.
 MR. SELWYN  said, he did not think that the objections urged by his right hon. Colleague (Mr. Walpole) had been answered. The difficulties and dangers of the person seeking to register his title were, that there should be an accurate description of everything, including every hereditament corporeal and incorporeal put upon the register. If that were not done —and it was a thing almost impossible to do—the owner might at some future time have his rights called in question, on the ground that certain rights were not to be found upon the record. In fact, the clause would have the effect of plunging into doubt persons who sought to register their land, and would oblige them to be in a constant state of preparation to resist aggression. The Corporation of London had an officer whose duty it was to see that no Bill was carried through Parliament, and no attempt made which would in any way interfere with their rights. That officer was called the City Remembrancer. But if this clause passed, every landed proprie-
 661
 MR. SELWYN , notwithstanding what they had heard from the right hon. Gentleman as to the insignificance of verbal criticism, was disposed to believe that inconvenience would result from the vagueness of the language employed in this clause. "Uncertainty which cannot be ascertained" was not legal language at all; and in the explanation of the clause which had been given, two matters which ought to be kept distinct were jumbled up together—namely, matters of conveyance and matters of title.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  could not help doubting the expediency of investing a registrar with judicial powers, and it seemed to him that they ought not, without further consideration, to pass the clause.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he wished to ask if omnibus proprietors could not be compelled to paint the table of fares outside the omnibuses as well as inside?
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he wanted to know whether the fares should not be put outside the omnibus, so that people might see them before they got in?
 MR. MACEVOY  observed, that there was no superannuation for Poor Law Officers in England.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, that the clause was an extraordinary one. It began by assuming that the title was good and marketable. But how could an estate appear to be marketable until the registrar knew what the estate was, and had gained the information which was to be afterwards supplied? The registrar, he it observed, was to determine on the legal effect of the instruments submitted to him, and was to put upon the registry of land not copies of the instruments but their legal effect. Let the Committee consider what might he the application of this Bill in such a case as that of the Bridgewater Peerage. Under the limitations of a settlement the question arose whether Lord Alford took an estate in fee simple, and whether a clause in the deed devolving the property upon another branch of the family, in case j any future tenant in tail failed within a certain time to become Duke or Marquess of Bridgewater, was operative. From the Court of Chancery, the question came before the House of Lords, and certain questions were submitted by their Lordships to the common law judges: the judges differed among themselves in the proportion of nine to two; and when their answers were submitted to the Law Lords, including four ex-Chancellors and the then Lord Chancellor, those learned men, with one exception, overruled the opinion of the majority of the Judges. Yet, under this Bill, a registrar with a salary of £2,500 a year, might say that the question was not arguable, might refuse to remit to the Court of Chancery, and might pronounce a final and conclusive decision. The consequence of passing the Bill would be that in every case—not only in those cases in which questions arose which must sooner or later be determined, but in every case where there might be numerous questions of a complicated character, arising out of a series of deeds and settlements, which might never require decision, because the contingencies upon which they rested might never happen, the registrar would be compelled to take notice of them, and to pronounce a speculative decision. The Bill, instead of preventing, would increase litigation. The legal effect of all deeds, with every possible contingency they might provide for, would be put upon the registry, and although re-
 660 caveats,
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he did not wish to give the Committee unnecessary trouble, but, in order to put on record his opinion as to the inability of the registrar satisfactorily to discharge the duties imposed upon him by the Bill, he moved the omission of the words "Registrar and Examiners of Title," and that the word "Court" be inserted in lieu thereof. He should not, however, divide the Committee.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  asked what was the use of registering a title subject to certain contingencies which had not happened, and for which, when they did happen, no provision was made in the Bill.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  rose to move that all those words of the clause which related to "contingencies which had not happened," "uncertainties which could not be ascertained," and "outstanding legal estates which could not be got in," should be omitted. As far as the clause provided that where a title had been investigated, and the person applying had succeeded in establishing a perfect title to the fee simple of any given property, he should have the property registered, and receive a certificate of registration which should constitute an indefeasible or Parliamentary title to the purchaser, he entirely agreed to it. But he was strongly opposed to the registration of anything except a perfect saleable title to the fee simple, and he maintained that all charges, encumbrances, contingent remainders, or other interests which derogated from the complete fee simple, should be dealt with by means of  caveats.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he still adhered to his opinion as to the expediency of postponing the decision of the Committee on the clause.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  moved, that the clause be postponed, in order that his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General might maturely consider the constitution of the proposed new tribunal, and whether the work might not he better performed by the existing Court of Chancery, or by a Commission. The clause enacted that titles should be examined by a "Registrar
 651
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he did not rise for the purpose of enforcing the objection of his hon. and learned Friend, though he did not think it had been satisfactorily answered. He wished to offer an objection to the sixth head or provision of the clause, by which no vendor could register a further title than that which he had bought, without the consent of the vendor. A purchaser might have bought under conditions of sale which precluded him from making inquiries into title before a certain date. Yet a purchaser might wish to register an indefeasible title, and have the benefit of the measure like every one else. This he would not be enabled to do without the consent of the vendor.
 MR. HADFIELD  thought the evils arising from delay were of less importance than those which might result from passing a defective measure, and as he was convinced that a Bill of this character could not be properly or satisfactorily considered in Committee of the Whole House, he should vote for the Amendment.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, that the working of the Bill would be attended with this serious consequence, that as the proceedings would take place with closed doors, the rights of absent parties might be prejudicially affected; and even if the owner of property adjoining that the subject of proceedings in the proposed court had notice of the application for a certificate of good title, he would be at the expense and trouble of attending to protect his interests.
 MR. WHALLEY  contended that no powers were given to the registrar under this Act which were not already given under the Inclosure Acts.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, that the objections of the hon. and learned Member for Belfast, if they applied at all, applied to the 4th clause, and not to the one under consideration.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  recommended the Chief Secretary for Ireland to withdraw the Bill, in order that boards of guardians might have time to consider what its effects would be.
 MR. BUTT  said, the question seemed to be whether this Bill should be confined to titles which were complete, or whether it should be made also to apply to those titles in which there was some outstanding interest. Unless it was extended to both, he contended it would be useless.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he wished to know what reduction was to take place in the number of Professorships?
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, When he will lay before the House his Scheme for reducing the Professorships in the Queen's Colleges, and appropriating to other purposes the Grant now given for maintaining the libraries and lighting and cleansing the buildings.
 MR. HENNESSY  hoped the measure would be proceeded with. It was one in favour of which a strong public feeling existed, and was calculated, he thought, to have a most beneficial effect.
 MR. MALINS  said, he was sorry to find himself compelled to take a different view of that subject from that which had been set forth by his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Belfast (Sir II. Cairns) and his right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Walpole). If they wished to strangle the Bill, he thought they had better say so boldly at once, and refuse to proceed with it any further. He had already stated, on the second reading, that he thought the measure was one of no value whatever. He did not think it worth passing, and he believed that no Select Committee could make it worth passing. He was persuaded that any measure upon this subject that
 644 645
 MR. MALINS  thought the objection was untenable. It was impossible that the conveyancing counsel of the Court of Chancery could overlook the question who was in the possession of land. The first inquiry to be made of a person desiring to register would be—are you in possession? or to whom are the rents paid?
 MR. MALINS  said, it appeared to him that the House in affirming the principle of the Bill, had affirmed the principle that there must be a distinct tribunal for declaring indefeasability of title. It was impossible that the Courts of Chancery could undertake the duty of inquiring into titles
 652
 MR. COLLIER  thought that the objections to the clause were inconsistent with each other. On the one hand, it was said, that inasmuch as the question to be raised under the Bill would not be of great importance, it would not be necessary to have a new tribunal at all; and, on the other, it was contended that the questions would be not only of great importance but of great number, and that therefore a superior Judge should be appointed. It appeared to him that there was a middle course, and that the Bill had pointed it out. For that reason he supported the proposition to appoint an inferior Judge, to be called a Chief Registrar, who would no doubt be competent to dispose of all the business to be created by the Bill.
 MR. COLLIER  trusted that the House would not accede to the Amendment of the hon. and learned Gentleman even if the Government were prepared to do so. The intentions of the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite might be friendly, but his act would be fatal; he never remembered an instance of a Bill refer-
 642
 MR. COLLIER  acquiesced in the view that the registrar would be found insufficient to settle important questions of boundary, which were constantly being mooted on circuit.
 MR. COLLIER  reminded the Committee that besides notices to the persons whose interests were disclosed, notice was also to be given by advertisement, and to the occupiers of adjoining lands, and to the owners of such adjoining lands.
 MR. LOWE  replied, that no such appointments had been made, nor was it expected that any would be needed during the current financial year. When the Estimates were presented next year, they would include a provision for any change which might be found necessary.
 MR. WALPOLE  joined in the hope that the measure would pass during the
 643
 MR. WALPOLE  was also of opinion that the Government had taken the right course in commencing the working of the Bill in the manner proposed. When the Encumbered Estates Court was established, an immense number of encumbrances on land had to be got rid of, and the rights of numerous parties had to be taken care of. The working of this Bill would be much more simple, and the duties could, he believed, be effectually discharged by
 653
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that although it had been ascertained by the previous clauses that the title was good and marketable, it was required by this clause that something further should be done— namely, that the applicant should furnish information to the registrar as to three points—first, a description of the lands; secondly, of all the persons entitled to the lands, and of the estates, powers, and interests that exist or may arise; and, thirdly, a statement of the charges and incumbrances affecting the land. Were they prepared to say that, to obtain this registration of title, they would give an indefeasible title not merely to the land, but to the boundaries of the property? Were they in giving this indefeasible title to clog the register with that which hitherto was entirely condemned—namely, a collection of those assurances or, what was even more difficult, a synopsis of each assurance? The consequence would be that every adjoining occupier would be compelled to dispute questions of boundary which they were going to preclude him
 658
 MR. WALPOLE  suggested an Amendment in an earlier part of the clause. He proposed to substitute "reference" for "investigation."
 MR. WALPOLE  suggested that this clause should be omitted. To require that every adjoining proprietor should have notice when any land was to be registered would give rise to much litigation and expense. He would also omit the second part of Clause 14.
 MR. SCULLY  said, the production of the deeds to the registrar would give the required protection. He hoped the clause would be allowed to stand, as being a good compromise between opposing principles.
 MR. SCULLY  said he represented a very large county, and had never been asked to present a petition from that county for superannuation such as that proposed by this Bill. He should like to see this measure introduced at Tamworth, in the first instance, by way of experiment.
 MR. SCULLY  said, he should be glad to divide with the hon. and learned Gentleman.
 MR. SCULLY  suggested that the Amendment should be withdrawn, inasmuch as the omission of the words was
 657
 MR. SCULLY  said, though the Commissioners had thought it better to confine the registry to fee simple, it might be extended; tenants for life should be allowed to put their estate on the register.
 MR. SCULLY  said, that the twenty declarations of title of unencumbered estates in Ireland were not to he taken as a measure of the value of the Court established there, or as an indication of the extent of the work likely to arise under this Bill. The fact was, that in addition to those twenty declarations of title of estates not encumbered, there had been 300 more, through the instrumentality of sales in the Encumbered Estates Court. He was possessor of an unencumbered estate; and if he wanted a declaration of title, his cheapest mode of going to work would he by encumbering the property and then proceeding to sale in the Landed Estates Court. Passing this Bill would be attended with this benefit—that if the machinery should be found unwieldy, it would give rise to a good Act next Session. The question of Land Tribunal was discussed before the Royal Commissioners, who reported against it; but he was in favour of the tribunal, and gave his reasons, which were published in the Appendix, for differing in judgment with his brother Commissioners.
 MR. SCULLY  said, that notices would have to be served on all the owners of adjacent properties before an indefeasible title could be obtained.
 MR. SCULLY  thought that the hon. and learned Member for Belfast bad given very good reasons for referring this Bill to a Select Committee. On the other hand, the present measure had been considered and recommended in every possible form, and to refer it to a Select Committee would be neither more nor less than strangling it for the present Session. The Bill might not be very extensive in its operation, but it established the principle of a registration of title which had been recommended by a Committee of that House, and which it was important to affirm. He was at a loss to perceive what assistance the House would derive from an inquiry by a Select Committee, whose Report would carry with it very little weight. Attendance during the morning would be far more inconvenient than in the evening to legal gentlemen, and some of the most useful Members of the House and all the Irish Members would be shut out from the Select Committee. He should therefore support the Motion, that the House go into Committee at once.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would not follow the hon. Member through his speech, which was mainly a criticism upon a defunct measure. The hon. Gentleman, with many others in the House, found no difficulty
 666
 MR. BARROW  observed, that in mineral districts it frequently happened that the land was held by one person, while there was a reservation of the minerals to mother. Under this clause there was no security that the person apparently having the fee might not dispose of both land and minerals without notice to the person really entitled to the latter. He thought some special protection should be provided for these cases.
 MR. CONINGHAM  thought the drawings had better remain where they were than be removed to the National Gallery; and that if a vast quantity of rubbish were removed that never ought to have been placed in the Museum, and by a rearrangement, room might be found for a great deal more of what was really useful than was generally supposed. He objected to the system of restoring the sculptures in the Museum which had recently been introduced, and which he thought as objectionable as the restoration of the paintings. He should certainly be sorry to see the drawings withdrawn from the British Museum.
 MR. GREGORY  expressed a hope that the Session would not terminate without some arrangement being made to alter the government of the Museum. The Royal Commission of 1860 had made a very useful Report, but every one of its recommendations had been ignored in the Trustees' Bill. The majority by which that Bill was thrown out was an aggregate of differing elements—those who objected to the separation of the collections, those who objected to the management, and those who objected to the extravagance of the system. The proposal for the removal of the Natural History collection came from Professor Owen, he believed, almost alone; and however great that gentleman's authority, it was not, he thought, sufficient to justify the proposal, which was in direct opposition to the Report of the Royal Commission. He (Mr. Gregory) believed a satisfactory arrangement might be come to now by providing for the Natural History collection in the second floor, and the sculpture in a building upon the small piece of ground which it had been recommended should be purchased, adjoining the present building. This would involve an outlay of not more than £270,000, instead of £670,000, which was the expenditure involved in the Government proposal. The plan he proposed would admit of indefinite extension of the galleries, so as to provide for future additions to the collection.
 MR. MURRAY  remarked, that in referring to the description of title, the words used were "good and marketable," but afterwards there was a provision in reference to the declaration to be made as to the validity of the title. Thinking they should adhere to the same words, he would propose to strike out the word "good," and insert the word "valid."
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  thought the objections urged were on matters of detail that might be well considered in a Committee of the Whole House. It seemed to be the general desire of the House that the Bill should pass this Session; and as, in his view, it would be impossible for it to do so if it were referred to a Select Committee, he should give his vote in opposition to the Amendment. Those who had charge of the measure seemed to be of opinion that it ought not to be referred to a Select Committee, and might he dealt with satisfactorily in a Committee of the Whole House, and he should be guided by their opinion, and support the Motion for going into a Committee of the Whole House.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  also protested against its being supposed that a court of equity would declare a title to be marketable, without taking into consideration who was in possession of the land.
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  was opposed to the principle of superannuations generally, but thought this Bill ought to be passed, being merely permissive.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied, that he had stated what the law actually was.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the law required that a table of fares should be conspicuously painted within the omnibus, the object being that passengers while sitting in the omnibus should have an opportunity of seeing the precise sum that could be demanded from them, and no more could be demanded than was placed on the table.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, it was impossible to adopt the same regulations with regard to rates and fares of omnibuses as were applied to Hackney Carriages. Omnibuses came under the general description of stage carriages that ran from one fixed point to another, picking up passengers along the route, and it was not possible to fix any general table of rates which could be applicable to them. There was, however, this regulation: that Conductors could only demand the rate (which must be uniform for all passengers) between certain distances, which was conspicuously painted within the omnibus, so that passengers on the journey might see the fare which the Conductor was entitled to demand.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, it was evident that the right hon. Gentleman had not read the former Bill, which expressly provided that the court should not take any proceedings until it was proved to their satisfaction, by inquiries on the spot or other sufficient evidence, that the applicant or his predecessor were in possession of the receipts or profits of the land for a period of not less than five years previous to the date of the application. But under the terms of the present clause the court had no discretion, but would be obliged to register the title when applied to.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, the clause was the most complete subversion of British law that had ever been attempted. Hitherto it had been considered that possession was  primâ facie
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  rose to move as an Amendment that the Bill should be referred to a Select Committee. He hoped he need hardly say that he had no hostility to this Bill. On the contrary, he was most anxious that a measure of the kind should, in some shape or other, be passed; but it was a measure of such gravity and importance that he desired, that if it were passed, it should be made as perfect as possible. Some persons thought that this was only a permissive Bill. Although it was permissive in the sense that no person need take his title to be investigated and registered unless he chose, it was not permissive in this sense, that no sooner did any person take his title to be examined than there commenced a course of action which would bring him into conflict with all surrounding owners of land, who would have no choice or option in the matter. If any owner of an estate desired that his title should be registered, it would be necessary that the boundaries of that estate should be accurately ascertained, and all the owners of surrounding property, with whom there might have been disputes as to boundaries which had laid dormant for thirty or fourty years, must be placed in antagonism with him, in order to see that their property was not encroached upon. The same thing would occur as to rights of road, rights of way, rights of sporting, or rights of drainage. He did not say that this was improper—probably it was necessary—but at the same time it materially detracted from the permissive character of the Bill. In one respect, however, this Bill differed from all others which had been proposed; it provided that after a title had been registered, the contents of all deeds affecting the estate should be placed upon the register; and therefore the state of things which he had represented as arising upon the registry of the title would be reproduced upon the occasion of every subsequent dealing with the estate. The measure, though permissive in terms, was really compulsory in substance. Moreover, the Bill was admitted by the Government to run entirely counter to the Report of the Royal Commission which considered this subject and made its Report in 1854. The present Lord Chancellor, the Vice President of the Council of Education (Mr. Lowe), and the present Speaker were
 639 640 641
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he was entirely at issue with the Solicitor General on this point. The propositions of this Bill were quite new, because it put the interests of unborn generations out of view altogether.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  concurred in the observations of his right hon. Friend, and wished to know, supposing that the registrar made a mistake, and did not insert the names of all persons interested, or supposing that some of the persons interested were unborn or out of the coun-
 663
 MR. ROLT  was puzzled by many of the expressions used in the clause. What was meant, for example, by "uncertainties which cannot be ascertained"?
 MR. ROLT  thought that the arguments which had been advanced by the hon. and learned Member for Wallingford (Mr. Malins) against sending the Bill to a Select Committee, were the very arguments which might be used in favour of such a proceeding: he (Mr. Rolt) contended that only a Select Committee would be able so to deal with the Bill as that it could afterwards be satisfactorily dealt with by a Committee of the Whole House. His hon. and learned Friend said that even if they did not send it to a Select Committee, there would be only a very few
 646 647
 MR. ROLT  said, that this clause introduced a subject of great magnitude. It introduced a scheme by which titles might be declared indefeasible. This had nothing to do with the question of registering titles. Titles might be registered whether they were defeasible or indefeasible. This was a wholly distinct and equally experimental plan. The experiment had been tried in Ireland, and from a Return made to the House it appeared that from the year 1858 down to 1862 the number of applications for declarations of indefeasible title were something under twenty. For this experiment it was now proposed to establish a new tribunal, consisting of a registrar and three assistant registrars, an examiner of titles, and an efficient staff of clerks. But should not an experiment such as this be tried with as little expense as possible? Was it desirable to establish a new tribunal? Might not the experiment be well tried by giving jurisdiction in the matter to the Court of Chancery? And if a new jurisdiction was to be created for the purpose, was it wise to intrust the duties to a tribunal in any respect inferior to the ordinary judicial tribunals of the country. By this Bill, the registrar sitting in chambers with his assistants, might declare a title indefeasible. Even in an open court, where the matter was watched with all attention, there would be great danger of errors creeping in—how much more would this be the case where there was anything like a secret investigation? He was strongly of opinion that this duty of declaring titles indefeasible should be referred to an existing tribunal; and if this should not be assented to, that a new court of the ordinary judicial character, and holding its sittings in public in the usual manner, would be preferable to the scheme proposed by this Bill.
 MR. ROLT  said, that by the next clause a discretion was given to the registrar; but it was a discretion whether he should or should not do his own work, or send it to the Court of Chancery, whenever any question of doubt or difficulty arose. Of course, the natural bias of every judge under such circumstances was to remit a cause to another tribunal. The Bill, in fact, appointed a registrar to do the work of the Bill, but gave him an option not to do it.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  replied, that nothing could be done in the matter until the Chancellor of the University had been consulted.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that now Parliament had consented to appropriate a certain sum, it would be necessary that the proposal for its application should be submitted to the Senate and the Chancellor of the University, and should afterwards be carried out by Royal Statutes.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, the Bill had not originated with the Government, but with the Select Committee of last year; seventy-one boards of guardians in Ireland petitioned the Government to bring forward such a Bill, and only twelve raised their voices against it. Three of the most important unions had written to him by their chairman, urging the adoption of the measure as one of economy. The Bill would certainly necessitate the raising of a permanent fund of £153,000. If the Irish Members thought that amount excessive, he should be very glad to get rid of the responsibility of the Bill, but he did not feel himself at liberty to withdraw it without some marked expression of feeling on the part of the House.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, as almost every Member, except the hon. Member for King's County, was opposed to his pressing the Bill, he would consent to withdraw it.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he should oppose the proviso, which would leave it in the discretion of proprietors of fisheries to say when they should commence fishing, and when they should leave off. By an Amendment which he had already proposed to the clause, the Commissioners would have power to vary the period at which the weekly close-time should commence in any district; and he did not think it would be advisable to go beyond that.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he thought it would not be unreasonable to suspend the operation of the Act with respect to the parties for a certain period. He thought, however, that the Amendment of his hon. Friend was too wide in its terms. He (the Lord Advocate), should have no objection to insert words providing that the Act should not come into operation till the 1st of January, 1865, which would meet the case, by giving ample time to the tenants for compensation arising out of a change in the law.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that notwithstanding the result of the division, he did not object to make the Amendment he had himself proposed, and to extend the time for the Act coming into operation until January, 1865.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that it was impossible for him to accede to clauses which would legalize fishing in places where it was unlawful at present.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, the object of the Bill was to provide that, within the limits of estuaries to be fixed by the Commissioners, all fishing with fixed nets or fixed engines should henceforth be illegal.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that these were the very clauses upon which the Bill of the last session foundered. He hoped his hon. Friend would not renew a discussion which was very fully gone into during the last year.
 MR. D. EOBEETSON  said, he should oppose the clause, as it was calculated to demoralize the people, who would not take out licences to do that which had been a custom for 100 years.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  moved the insertion of words embracing the provisions of the Act in respect to the appointment of Deputy Commissioners.
 MR. ELLICE (St. Andrews)  said, that some of the northern counties had heavily assessed themselves to build asylums, in which the lunatics were well looked after, the harmless and incurable being allowed to reside with their friends. He should therefore move as an Amendment, excepting from the operation of the clause the counties of Inverness, Nairn, Ross, and Sutherland.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, the clause contained the most important provision in the Bill. The Bill was an Amendment of the Lunacy Act—and not a continuance Act—in any other sense than it continued the existing Board.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he did not object to the Amendment.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that the law made no provision for the pensions of widows of soldiers, and he was not aware of any discretionary power on the subject.
 MR. COWPER  said, he believed the hon. Baronet alluded to the hoarding that had been recently erected, but that did not mark out exactly the site of the building. That site included 18,000 square feet of ground, which formerly was part of St. James's Park. Since the most recent of the Acts on the subject had been passed, it had been found desirable to alter to some extent the outlines of the proposed buildings with a view to architectural effect; consequently, he should propose to bring in a Bill to allow of a slight exchange of ground between the site of Public Offices and the Park; the general result of that exchange would be that 1,480 square feet would be added to the Park.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that militiamen, when under training, were subject to the provisions of the Mutiny Act and the Articles of War, and by one of those articles power was given to the commanding officer to stop the pay, and there was no regulation guiding the discretion of the officer with respect to applications of the nature referred to by the hon. Member.
 SIR FREDEEIC SMITH  said, he rose to move the Address of which he had given notice. He could assure the House that he felt the responsibility he incurred in bringing so important a subject before it. Every year they had a debate raised upon the propriety of holding Alderney as a military station, and forming a harbour of refuge there. If that was a fit subject for discussion, how much more fit for it was the question whether they should hold those two larger Channel Islands, which were far more difficult to defend, and of much less value than Alderney— namely, Jersey and Guernsey. On what ground did they attempt to hold them? He did not believe they were under any moral obligation to do so; and still less did he believe in the possibility of their defending them with the small military force they possessed. He understood that the Duke of Wellington had suggested that 10,000 men would be required for the Channel Islands. Of that number Alderney would take 3,000; but what could be said in favour of locking up the remaining 7,000 in the other two islands? With
 694 695
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that the hon. and gallant Officer had expressed a confident hope that he would be able to accede to the Motion. He therefore lost no time in undeceiving him, and in declaring his inability to support the terms of the Motion. He collected from the speech of the hon. and gallant Officer that the conclusion at which he wished the intended Commission to arrive was, to negative both the propositions contained in the Motion. The Channel Islands had belonged to the Crown of England since the Norman Conquest, and, though inhabited by a population which, to a considerable extent, spoke French, and formerly formed part of the
 696
 MR. DIGBY SEYMOUR  seconded the Motion.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, that asy-
 674
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, that the Bill proposed to extend the English Act to a certain portion of Scotland in a way which would act injuriously to the interests of proprietors and tenants, and therefore he could not help thinking that the Amendment of the hon. Member for Stirling was fair and reasonable.
 MAJOR O'REILLY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether, under the Militia Regulations, a Militiaman who is absent from a parade is liable to the stoppage of his day's pay; and whether, as the families of Militiamen in training are dependent
 678
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he wished to ask, whether the hon. Gentleman would have any objection to lay that note upon the table?
 MR. FINLAY  said, that he approved of the proposal of the Lord Advocate to delay the operation of the Act for a period of two years.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  moved, that the name of the hon. Member making the Motion be taken down.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he was not aware that there would be any objection to do so, but it might be as well to wait until the correspondence was closed.
 MR. LAYARD  said, that Mr. Bishop was arrested, not, he believed, for having been concerned in a conspiracy, but for having been the bearer of treasonable correspondence. He had not found any trace of the name of Count Canaldoli in the correspondence with the Foreign Office. Mr. Bishop was arrested on the 2nd of April, and had not yet been brought to trial, on account of difficulties arising out of the introduction of entirely new courts and trial by jury into Naples. A despatch had, however, that morning been received from Consul General Bonham, who states that he had been informed by the Procureur General that the jury lists would be completed in a few days, and the trial would then come on immediately. A despatch had also been received from Sir James Hudson, stating that he had, in accordance with instructions from home, transmitted a note to the Italian Government, calling upon it to proceed with the trial of Mr. Bishop as early as possible.
 MAJOR CUMMING BRUCE  said, he would withdraw the clause.
 MAJOR CUMMING BRUCE  said, he would then move a clause empowering district boards to grant annual rod licences. The clause, with others following, had been taken verbatim from the recommendations of the Committee of last year.
 MAJOR CUMMING BRUCE  said, ho wished to move the insertion of a clause to follow Clause 24, to provide that fishings in the possession of any proprietor, by virtue of a Royal grant or charter, and who should have exercised the right to fish the same for the term of forty years, and situated within certain estuaries, to be defined by the Commissioners, might be fished with fixed nets or fixed engines, until purchased.
 MAJOR CUMMING BRUCE  said, he would point out that he had inserted the
 673
 MAJOR CUMMING BRUCE  said, he would propose to add at the end of Clause 7 the following proviso:—
 "Provided always that in tidal waters where salmon fishing by means of net and coble can only be carried on during a certain state of the tide, it shall be lawful for persons having such rights of fishing to commence to fish by net and coble only at such hour of the Monday morning as may be suitable for the same."
 MAJOR CUMMING BRUCE  opposed the Amendment.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  was understood to say that no measures out of the ordinary course had been taken in sending troops to India. A certain amount of force had been fixed for that empire, and he did not believe that it had been reached at that moment.
 MR. MURE  said, he wished to move the insertion of a clause for allowing persons to enter asylums voluntarily.
 MR. MURE  suggested, that the provision enabling the Secretary of State to exercise the powers given him by the clause should be qualified by the insertion of the words "unless cause be shown to the contrary."
 MR. MURE  said, he would move, in line 20, after the word "Scotland," to insert, "after notice duly given by special advertisement, in some newspaper of general circulation in the district, not less than ten days before any such visitation,
 671
 MR. D. ROBERTSON  said, he would propose the insertion of words entitling the lessees of salmon fisheries, under leases of not less than three years originally, and of £50 and upwards, to be placed on the roll of the district board and entitled to vote.
 MR. WARNER  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, What is the practice in granting pensions and gifts of money to the widows, parents, and other relations of Soldiers who have died in the Service; whether such pensions and gifts are bestowed invariably according to fixed regulations, or whether any discretion is allowed in regard to them; and whether such discretion, if any, is exercised by the Commander-in-Chief, or by the War Department?
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether he is aware that Mr. James Bishop, who was arrested at Gaeta on the 2nd of April, and committed to prison on a charge of complicity in the Canaldoli conspiracy, has not yet been brought to trial, and that bail has been refused him, although Count Canaldoli himself has been admitted to bail; and, if so, whether Her Majesty's
 677
 MR. CRUM-EWING  moved the addition of the following clause:—
 "It shall be lawful for the Board to grant licences to any charitable institution established for the care and training of imbecile children, and supported in whole or in part by private subscription, without exacting any licence fee therefore, and such licence may be in name of the superintendent of such institution for the time being."
 MR. WEMYSS  supported the Amendment.
 MR. WEMYSS  said, he would move an Amendment, providing that the weekly close-time should commence at six o'clock, on Saturday night, and end at six o'clock on Monday morning.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, it having been stated that there were not forty hon. Members present, he must first ascertain whether there was a House before he could entertain any Motion.
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he rose to call the attention of the House, in connection with the income tax, to the action taken by Government on the "Two Million Fortification Loan Act of 1860;" also to the effect of the income tax on the rents of encumbered landed property, and to move for certain Returns. About two years previously the noble Lord at the head of the Government proposed to raise, for the purpose of erecting fortifications, a loan of £10,000,000 or £12,000,000 through the medium of terminable annuities. He (Mr. Hubbard) then took the liberty of submitting that no more wasteful course could be adopted than to raise money for such a purpose in such a manner, and proposed an Amendment in order to prevent the adoption of that course. The Government, however, persevered, and he was defeated. From papers which had recently been distributed he found that during the year 1861 £970,000 had been brought into the Exchequer by the sale of terminable annuities. Those annuities had not been placed in the open market, but had been taken by the Government to the account of the savings banks; and, to provide the purchase-money, they had sold Three per Cent stocks belonging to the savings banks. The terms, however, on which the annuities were placed were not stated in any paper which he could find on the table of the House; and although he found papers in which the prices were affixed to other kinds of stocks, there was no price attached to these annuities. If, however, the Government persevered in thus contracting loans in a way which was ignored by the capitalists and moneyed
 679 680 9d 681 682
 MR. HUBBARD  said, with respect to that class, he proposed to make a deduction of the whole.
 MR. HUBBARD  replied: He should have been very glad to have his Return rectified according to the suggestion of his right hon. Friend the Member for Stamford; but he found that the Board of Inland Revenue could not, without much trouble and delay, distinguish the returns
 693
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he should press his objection to a division.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he objected to the power being given to the Commissioners. It was quite a new principle, and had come upon the Scotch Members by surprise, for at their meeting on the previous day, they were told that the measure would be merely a continuance Bill, whereas the clause was entirely new. It was, he thought, unfair to override all the counties by the clause because a few of them had neglected their duty.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that his hon. Friend was not quite correct in supposing that the Government would make any objection to his Motion as far as it was in their power to grant the Returns moved for. That part of the Motion which rested on what might be called matters of fact they would readily accede to; but as for the last paragraph, which rested on no matter of fact, but was pure hypothesis and argument, it was not in their power to prepare such a Return. His hon. Friend in an adroit manner had mixed up two subjects which were distinct, separate, and incongruous — namely, a scheme for the collection of the income tax, and an impeachment of the Government for the mode of raising money adopted by them in order to provide for the for-
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  observed, that his hon. Friend would then make greater havoc with the tax than he had anticipated. He had been blamed by his hon. Friend for overstating the amount of burden sought by his hon. Friend's scheme to be laid on the owners of land and houses, and he thought it possible that in some respects he might have overstated the amount; but, whether that was so or not, it did not touch the reason and nature of the case. His hon. Friend was going to burden one class, and to do that by disburdening another; and that was the objection to the scheme. The owners of land were already under great disadvantage, inasmuch as they paid the tax on the gross and not on the net income. The owners of houses were under greater disadvantages than the owners of land; for, while they also paid on the gross, and not on the net income, unfortunately for them, their outgoings in a large amount of cases were greater than those of the owners of land. Then came his hon. Friend and proposed to deduct l–12th from the owners of land, and l–6th from the owners of houses. But what his hon. Friend deducted from the owners of lands and houses made its appearance again in the shape of a tax at a more elevated rate, which not only took away the whole benefit of the deductions, but positively imposed an additional burden. If his hon. Friend were to have his own way with the income tax, and were to carry his favourite project for reducing the rate on official salaries and on the incomes of bankers and merchants by one-third, he must, in order to make the tax produce the same amount as it then did, raise the rate from 9d. in the pound to 11d. The proposition only tended to create a new class of inequalities and anomalies, and would in some instances confer a boon totally unwarranted. In the case of the
 687
 MR. W. EWART  said, he should support the Amendment.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he wished to ask the hon. Member for Sunderland, If he is prepared to give the terms of the Motion in relation to American affairs, of which he has given notice for Friday next?
 MR. W. S. LINDSAY  said, that if he considered it advisable to proceed on Friday with his Motion, the object of which was the recognition of the Southern States, he would that evening, or to-morrow at the latest, place the terms upon the table.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  seconded the Motion.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, he could not but deprecate the line of argument by which it was sought to uphold that the income tax did not press unduly on Schedule D, because, by leaving a door
 691
 COLONEL SYKES : How can a madman enter an asylum voluntary?
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether there is any foundation for the statement in the military journals that 4,000 troops are immediately to be sent to India; whether the additional annual cost of these troops, amounting to above £400,000, independently of £13 per man for Home Charges suddenly thrown upon the Reve-
 676
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  said, he hoped the hon. Member for Stirling county (Mr. Blackburn) would persevere with his objection.
 SIR DAVID DUNDAS  said, that when the district board refused to build asylums, there was no means of compelling them to provide the requisite accommodation. The clause would give the desired power, and he should support it.
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  said, that as a Member of the Select Committee of last Session he desired to say a few words. It was essential that in every matter of this kind justice should be adhered to; and he had come to the conclusion, upon an examination of the whole question, that
 688 689 "It is said that the legacy duty is in the nature of a tax upon property. It is a tax upon property, and because it is a tax upon property it meets the views which have been so much favoured by a large portion of this House and by public opinion—namely, that if the income tax is to bear unequally upon intelligence and skill, as compared with property, then that inequality ought to be redressed in some way or other. I think this is a safe mode in which to redress that inequality; and if this is a tax upon property, it is divested of the danger that attends the taxation of property generally." [3  Hansard "At the same time I have presented to me another portion of the budget, which I believe not only goes far to redress the inequalities which existed in the old income tax, but which I consider a bold and honest proposal; and, whatever be the fate of this budget, the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) and his colleagues have earned for themselves, I think, great honour for their straightforward and resolute conduct in grappling with a question which defeated Mr. Pitt in the plenitude of his power, and with which no one has ever since dared to meddle—I mean the legacy duty. … I must say that, looking at the income tax, coupled with the legacy duty—taking them together, viewing them as the keystone of the arch of this budget—I take them both, and I take them with both hands. I feel as strongly as any man in this House the case, of professional men; but I have not found in the north of England any very active opposition to the equal rate of duty upon all classes …. It will not, I think, benefit the professional man or the small trader in rural districts; but the legacy duty upon real property — although I should wish to view that question  per se Hansard 690
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he must decline to discuss the income tax, because, do what they would, they could not make it agreeable. It was a most detestable impost, incapable of amendment, and the best plan would be to get rid of it as soon as possible. Such a tax ought not to exist in time of peace; and if, as they had been told by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, £65,000,000 was a revenue amply sufficient even during the Crimean war, there was some reason to hope, that if things went quietly, at least one-half of the income tax might be taken off next year. But what he wished to remark upon at that moment was the objection taken by the hon. Member for Buckingham (Mr. Hubbard) to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, when authorized by the Legislature to raise annuities, being permitted to Bell those annuities practically to himself. It appeared that a large portion of the Fortification Annuities had been taken by the savings banks. Everybody knew that the manager of the savings banks had nothing to do with such transactions, which always took place between the Chancellor of the Exchequer of the day and the Commissioners for the Reduction of the National Debt. Now, the Chancellor of the Exchequer was a leading Commissioner, and practically he had sold the annuities to himself. That was a most vicious system, and he hoped the House would stamp it with its reprobation.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to ask the Chief Commissioner of Works, What quantity of land will be taken out of St. James's Park for the New Buildings; and whether any change has been made in the Plan so far as regards the quantity of land required in St James's Park?
 MR. CAIRD  said, he would withdraw his Amendment, and proposed in substitution for it the following:—"from and after the 1st of January, 1866," which would give three clear years to the parties to compensate themselves for the loss which they would suffer from the passing of this measure.
 MR. CAIRD  said, he thought that the interests of the tenants of fisheries on the Scotch shores of the Solway Firth were sacrificed by the Bill. Under these circumstances he thought it only fair that the parties should be allowed a certain time to work out of the business, and he should therefore propose to insert the words "from and after the 1st of January, 1867," the object of which was to prevent the Act coming into operation, so far as these persons were concerned, before that period.
 SIR MICHAEL SHAW STEWART  moved the insertion of the following clause:—
 "With the sanction of the Board, agreements and arrangements may be made for the reception and detention of all or any of the pauper lunatics of any district, county, or parish in any public, private, district, or parochial asylum or hospital within or beyond the limits of such district, county, or parish."
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he would suggest that the hon. Member for Buckingham, in accordance with his own plan for the readjustment of the income tax, should distinguish in the Return for which he had moved between trades and professions generally and joint-stock companies. The proposal of the hon. Member was to allow trades and professions generally to deduct one-third from their incomes; but he would not permit joint stock companies carrying on business to make any deductions at all. Such a plan, if adopted, would operate most injuriously, and it was only right that the real effect of it should be made known to the country. His hon. Friend would by no means get rid of the difficulty and injustice of the income tax by his plan. He mitigated them only in a very insignificant degree. Nothing was easier than to point out anomalies in its incidence; but that fact only showed that they ought not to lay that stress on it they were now doing —that it was desirable to reduce the pressure to the  minimum
 MR. PACKE  could not understand what object was to be gained by reporting progress. If it was to alter the Bill, that alteration could only have been effected at a former stage of the Bill. The Motion was simply by a side-wind to defeat the Bill.
 MR. CAYLEY  said, the phrase was well known, and had been employed and
 703
 MR. HENLEY  said, that without saying anything on the principle of the Bill itself, he would merely remark that the Amendment of the hon. Member for Devizes would lay down a totally different principle. That Amendment would confer the benefit of the proposed Act on any clergyman of the Church of England who wished to walk out of the profession, whether he dissented from the doctrines of the Church or not. If it was as easy to find a point of dissent as the hon. Member for Devizes seemed to
 709
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he did not apprehend that any inconvenience would result from the clause as it stood, and he hoped the decision of the Select Committee would remain undisturbed. The object of the promoters of the Bill was to exempt persons who conscientiously dissented from the Church
 711
 MR. SERJEANT PIGOTT  said, that he could not see the value of the addition made to the clause in the Select Committee. It was like saying, "We will
 712
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the resignation would be to the bishop. It would be a public act, and public notice would necessarily be given. There were the same safeguards as then existed in the case of resignations.
 MR. LYGON  said, he thought it would be unwise, if any persons who had been led to make the declaration under the Bill should afterwards see the errors of their ways, to forbid them the opportunity of returning to their position in the Church of England. With that view, he would propose the following new clause: —
 "When any priest or deacon whose declaration of conscientious dissent shall have been registered by the bishop as hereinbefore provided, shall apply to the bishop of the diocese for restoration to his ecclesiastical functions, the bishop may, after due examination of the applicant, issue a licence under his episcopal seal to revoke the declaration recorded in his registry, either immediately or after any period of probation he may think fit; and cancel the sentence pronounced against the applicant; and the applicant shall thenceforth be discharged from all incapacity under this Act to execute his ecclesiastical functions, shall cease to be entitled to the benefit of this Act, and at the expiration of twelve calendar months after the date of the episcopal licence may be presented to any ecclesiastical preferment,"
 LORD HENLEY  said, he should also oppose the clause, which, if passed, would cause the House to appear as holding certain doctrines on the question of the indelibility of priests' orders. The theory of once a priest always a priest, was only known in the Church of Rome, and was not recognised in the Eastern Churches. In Stanley's Eastern Church, it was stated that a man might lay down his orders and leave the Church when he would.
 MR. LYGON  said, he thought that matters of such consequence should not be withdrawn from the consideration of the House, and referred to a Select Committee. The arguments against the clause told against the Bill itself. Talk of the indelibility of orders being absurd. Why, it was much more absurd to make such a declaration as that required by the Bill indelible. However, after the discussion which had taken place, and after the advice given to him by the hon. Member for the University of Oxford and the noble Lord (Lord J. Manners), he should withdraw the clause.
 MR. EVANS  said, he would second the Motion. He believed, that if means were provided to parishes to commute their church rates, they would be taken advantage of, and in the end the present difficulties in regard to church rates would be avoided.
 MR. PACKE  said, he thought the measure would prove so utterly inoperative that it would he a waste of time to discuss it in its then shape. He would therefore move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, that the proposal had already been submitted to the Select Committee, who discussed and rejected it. He did not think it was a reasonable demand that a person, after deliberately declaring his conscientious dissent to the doctrines of the Church of England, should be allowed, on changing his mind again, to go back to the Church and resume his original position.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, he must again appeal to the Committee to support the decision of the Select Committee. That decision was not in accordance with his own opinion; but, the subject having been very fully discussed by the Committee, he felt bound to say that there was a larger majority in favour of the proviso than upon any other division. He had been very much surprised at the strong feeling upon the subject which was manifested by hon. Members on both sides of the House. What influenced them was the argument that persons who seceded ought not to be placed in a better position than those who continued clergymen of the Church of England. By law all ordained clergymen of the Church of England were excluded from seats in that House, whether they had benefices or not; but if those who seceded were to be admitted to the privilege of sitting in the House, they would certainly be placed in a better position than those who had not seceded. He was bound to say also that there was not any great willingness on the part of the Select Committee to admit within the House gentlemen who in their capacity of ministers of religion might have had an opportunity of acquiring great influence over the minds of those with whom they had been brought into contact. Although those arguments would not in the abstract have prevailed with him, yet he felt bound to yield on the point, because he believed that the opinion of the House was in favour of the decision of the Committee, and because, having received the consent of the House to the principle of a measure so difficult and delicate in itself, he believed he should be wanting in his duty if he did not yield his opinion.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, his hon. Friend had brought the same question before the Select Committee, and was seeking to reverse the decision at which that Committee had arrived. The difficulty in the present case arose from an ambiguity
 713
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, that if he were asked whether such an event was possible, he must answer in the affirmative; but if he were asked whether it was probable, he must doubt whether there would be one such case in a hundred years. He should be sorry to be the bishop to enforce the spiritual powers in question. Those who remembered the case of the Rev. Mr. Shore would agree with him that no prudent bishop was likely again to raise such a storm.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, no one who did not hold that the Church of England was infallible could doubt that after their ordination some of the clergy of that Church might conscientiously arrive at convictions inconsistent with their position. Those gentlemen were at present unable to abandon a ministry which they had entered under a totally different conception of doctrine from that which they now felt compelled to adopt. Were the House to insist on their remaining in the Church to teach what they believed to be false, or were those clergymen to teach from the pulpits of the Church of England doctrines opposed to those held by that Church? That was the difficulty which the hon. Member for Warwickshire would put them in. With regard to the Amendment of the hon. Member for Devizes, what that hon. Member proposed was, that whether a clergyman dissented from the doctrines and discipline of the Church of England or not, he should be allowed to abandon his profession on a declaration that he desired to do so. He did not now say whether he himself agreed with the hon. Member for Devizes or not; but he did say that the principle laid down by the Amendment was a very different one from that sought to be established by the Bill. The hon. Member wished to make the Bill one of a much more extensive character than it was; and as he thought it would be not nearly so acceptable to many persons in that House and the country if it were so altered, whatever his private opinion might be, he must ask the Committee to reject the Amendment.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  observed that the very persons who were exempt from the penalties of the law were those clergymen who became Roman Catholic priests. He did not think the Committee ought to object to extend to Protestants those exemptions which were given to Roman Catholics.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, that the latter portion of the clause was introduced by the Select Committee. As the clause formerly stood, it simply declared that the registry of the declaration was equivalent to a sentence of deposition against the minister. He should have preferred the original proposal, but the matter was fully discussed. The addition to the clause was carried by a majority, and having charge of the Bill, and feeling that no measure embodying extreme opinions would have a chance of passing the other House, his wish was to support the decision of the Select Committee. He felt bound to take that opportunity of acknowledging the great fairness and candour with which the Select Committee had considered the Bill. The grievance created by the clause was a mere featherweight, because pains were taken by the Bill to exempt seceding clergymen from all civil pains and penalties; and if the authorities of the Church thought it their duty to visit him with spiritual censures, they would carry with them no temporal disqualification or disability.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, it was possible that some of the seceding clergymen might desire to remain lay members of the Church of England; and it might happen, that if the bishop exercised his rights under the canon law, these persons might find themselves debarred from remaining members of the Church of England.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he could not but express his regret that religious topics had been introduced into the discussion on the Bill. He would strongly recommend his hon. Friend not to persevere with his clause.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he wished to ask if provision were made in the Bill to preserve the rights of patrons. If they did not present within six months after a vacancy, the right of presentation lapsed; and if provision were not made for giving them ample notice, their rights might be affected.
 MR. AYRTON  said, a "reputed quart bottle" was a term perfectly well understood in trade.
 MR. AYRTON  said, the Tippling Act was, in point of fact, a part and parcel of the licensing system, and therefore the subject ought to be treated as a whole. The measure before them was not asked for by the public, but by a trade for their own benefit. He trusted, therefore, that the Committee would agree to the Motion of the hon. Member for Bradford.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he would move the second reading of the Bill. He proposed to take the discussion on going into Committee.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he wished he could induce the hon. Member for Surrey to join him in referring this Bill to a Select Committee. He (Mr. Newdegate), as well as the hon. Member for Surrey, sought to effect a commutation of church rates. He had a Bill before the House on that subject, but in deference to his right hon. Friend the Member for Wiltshire (Mr. S. Estcourt), he had postponed pressing it forward. He was convinced that the Bill of the hon. Member for Surrey did not provide the requisite machinery to effect its object. The result of passing such a measure would be to empower the Charity Commissioners to act as bankers in the matter; but the Bill took no means to provide any funds whereby its principle was to be carried out. The existing law was contradictory; and the question must be settled by a measure worthy of that House. He did not believe that Parliament would intrust any Commission with the power of going down to every parish to promote agitation, in the hope of obtaining money by creating annoyance; yet such, he feared, would be the effect of the scheme proposed by the Bill, if adopted.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, there was no special Roman Catholic doctrine as to the indelibility of orders. It was a doc-
 717
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that notwithstanding the proposal that the Bill should be referred to a Select Committee, he could not help viewing its provisions with considerable apprehension. It would enable any clergyman, of his own motion, to declare that he dissented from the doctrines and discipline of the Church of England; and having made that declaration, he would be at once relieved from the liabilities which were now imposed upon him by the ecclesiastical law. He trusted the House would seriously consider the effect which the granting of that privilege to the clergy would have upon the congregations of the Church of England and the parochial system generally. He had personal knowledge upon the subject, which he had submitted to members of the Government, and which he was willing to submit to any other Member of the House. The point which he then wished to bring before the House was this:— By the proposals of the Bill, by a mere declaration of dissent from the doctrines of the Church, a clergyman could call upon his bishop to relieve him from all his clerical privileges and liabilities. Having shaken off the doctrines which he had voluntarily embraced, and the discipline to which he had voluntarily subjected himself, it would be open to that clergy-
 704 705 706
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he rose to move an Amendment having for its object to substitute for the declaration required by the clause one to the following effect:—
 "I desire to be relieved from any civil disabilities, disqualifications, restrictions, and prohibitions to which I may be subject as being in holy orders." 708
 MR MURE  said, he wished to ask what was meant by a "reputed quart."
 MR. HUNT  said, he rose to second the Motion. It might be objected that such a provision could not be introduced into a measure the title of which was the Sale of
 698
 MR. BRISCOE  said, he was opposed to the Amendment. The Tippling Act sanctioned the grossest injustice, and ought to be repealed.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that with reference to the point of order raised by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State, the necessity for an instruction arose from the Acts relating to spirits being considered to be quite a distinct class by themselves; and therefore dealing with beer, cider, and wine would be dealing with different trades. As the House could not deal with these trades without a pre-
 700
 MR. DODSON  said, the Motion to report progress was tantamount to moving the rejection of the Bill. He hoped therefore that the Motion would be rejected.
 MR. DODSON  said, the Tippling Act was passed during the last century, with a view of putting down drunkenness by Act of Parliament. It applied exclusively to the sale of spirits in small quantities; and though it had been generally admitted that the provisions of the Tippling Act were absurd, yet the hon. Member for Bradford proposed to extend those provisions to articles which they had never embraced before, and he hoped the hon. Member would explain why he had excluded perry from his Motion. His chief objection, however, to the proposal related to the time and manner in which it was brought forward. The House had carefully provided by a multiplicity of forms against anything like a surprise in the course of legislation. But the hon. Member for Bradford had violated the spirit, if not the letter of those rules, by bringing forward suddenly, and on very short notice, a Resolution which would seriously affect a trade in which 150,000 persons were engaged. In a Bill to remove restrictions from the sale of spirits, one would certainly not expect to find novel restrictions placed on the sale of beer. It was not right that the scope and object of the Act should thus be altered at the last moment.
 MR. HOPWOOD  said, he would move that the Bill be read a second time that day three months.
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he thought there would be no inconsistency in disagreeing with the Select Committee on the subject under consideration. He knew of a case in which within the last few weeks a clergyman had, unfortunately for himself, left the Church, and when he had had time for reflection he desired to return to it, and the bishop re-admitted him. By the Bill, however, unless this clause were inserted, if a clergyman left the Church he could not be re-admitted. It seemed to him that they ought not to shut the door. The whole object of the Bill was declared to be one of mercy, and the Committee should consider the merciful side of the proposal.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he objected to the word "residence," which, in legal acceptation, meant the place where the person slept. A man might live out of town, and have occasion to get the spirits sent to his place of business.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he was of opinion that the Motion of the hon. Member ought to be at once rejected, as having nothing whatever to do with the subject before the House, namely, the sale of spirits. He might refer to an instance when he had been prevented introducing a clause into a similar Bill, on the ground that it was not germane to the subject of the Bill.
 MR. LOCKE  said, it appeared from the speech of the right hon. Baronet that the whole Committee was of accord with respect to the provisions of the Bill. Well, if that were so, what objection could there be to pass it as it stood? It was obvious, that if the provisions advocated by the hon. Member for Bradford were tacked on to the Bill, they would he adding something to it about which considerable difference of opinion existed. They were arrived at the 18th of June, and the hon. Member for Rochester was exceedingly fortunate in having pushed on his Bill to that stage already; but he should like to know what chance the hon. Member would have of again bringing on the Bill for discussion if he were to consent to the Motion for reporting progress.
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  said, he would remind the hon. Member for Knares-borough (Mr. Collins) that the enactment was penal in its character.
 MR. VANCE  said, he did not think the Amendment would make the measure more extensive. As the Bill stood, it would enable persons to take advantage of a very small point of dissent, and in that way would hold out a very objectionable premium to hypocrisy. Another point required remark. A clergyman of the Church of Rome could say he dissented from the doctrines and discipline of the Church of England—the Bill did not require him to say that he dissented from those of the Church of Rome; and in that way he might get into the House of Commons.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he would suggest an adjournment of the debate to that day week.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, that in the absence of his noble Friend (Lord Henley), he rose to move to leave out all the words after the word "Church" to the end of the clause. By the clause as it stood the Bishop would be enabled not only to proceed to sentence of deprivation, but, by the canon law, he would retain the power of passing the penalty of excommunication upon the seceding clergyman.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he objected to the proposition. He had no indisposition to see clergymen who might leave the Church of England go back to it again and resume their functions as clergymen; but in such case they should be made ministers of the Church in the ordinary way in which men were made clergymen. The Committee ought not to be merciful to clergymen at the expense of parishioners.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he objected to the proviso at the end of the clause, which provided that nothing contained in the Bill should enable a clergyman, who had ceased to be a member of the Established Church, to sit in the House of
 714
 MR. DILLWYN  said, it was no doubt proper that a minister on wishing to leave the Church should be required to vacate any office which he might have held as such; but he held it was neither right nor fair that a person who, having become a clergyman of the Church of England, afterwards thought fit to leave its ministry, should be required to vacate any office which he might have previously held as a member of that Church. Take the case of a member of the Established Church who was a trustee of a school. He becomes a minister of the Established Church, he afterwards desires to retire from its ministry, and was he to be required to vacate his office of trustee to that school? If a clergyman differed from certain doctrines of the Church, he should not necessarily be declared to be no longer a member of the Establishment. He therefore would move the omission of the words "or member" from the clause.
 MR. P. W. MARTIN  moved the omission of all the words after the word "shall," and to insert the words—
 "be and the same is hereby repealed, so far only as relates to spirituous liquors sold to be consumed elsewhere than on the premises where sold, and sent to and delivered at the residence of the purchaser thereof in quantities not less at any one time than a reputed quart."
 MR. P. W. MARTIN  said, the Tippling Act was used as a means of defrauding wine merchants, and he had been that morning informed that the wine merchants of the country had held a meeting, and they had come to the resolution that they could, under the present state of the law, only protect themselves by requir-
 701
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, that as a Member of the Select Committee on the Bill, he had heard with reluctance the discussion of the theory of indelibility of Church orders. But he could never consent to a clergyman wavering between two churches, merely lest a dogma of that kind should be in danger. The whole discussion was of the same nature as if a question were started whether twelve angels instead of ten could stand upon a point  in vacuo
 MR. ALCOCK  said, he rose to ask the House to consent to the second reading of the Bill. He had placed a notice of it on the paper for the past five or six years in succession; hut he had taken no further steps, owing to the hon. Member for Tavistock (Sir John Trelawny) having a more important Bill on the same subject before the House. In the absence of such, however, at that time, he ventured to ask the House to give his Bill a second reading. It contained no compromise at all, no concession being made either to the Church or to Dissent. The object of the Bill simply was to afford facilities for raising by voluntary means permanent funds, so as to render parishes independent of any compulsory church rates. Such an object must be effected through the means of Commissioners, and he had selected the Charity Commissioners for the purpose. He felt confident that the
 718
 MR. ALCOCK  said, he would consent to that course.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he quite concurred in the objections of the right hon. Baronet opposite to the defective machinery of the Bill, and he hardly knew how the House could affirm its principle under such circumstances. He had a Resolution on the subject which he proposed to move on Tuesday. If the House should affirm that Resolution, the ground would be cleared for the hon. Gentleman's Bill or the Bill of any other hon. Member on the subject.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he had no wish to get rid of the Bill by a side-wind. If the Committee consented to report progress, the hon. Member for Bradford might then move a Resolution in Committee of the Whole House, and introduce a Bill which might be combined with that under consideration. If, however, they passed the latter measure through Committee, that course could not be taken. The Bill, being but a partial measure, would not give satisfaction to the country.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, that with regard to the merits of the question, no substantial difference could be drawn between one intoxicating drink and another. The question was a moral question, and if the instruction could not be given according to the form of Parliament, he thought it would be much better that the Bill should be withdrawn, and be brought in again in the next year with the proposed provision in it. With regard to the alteration of the Tippling]Act, he could only say that that Act had been in operation for a hundred years, and he had never heard any valid objection to it, and yet it was proposed to be repealed upon the motion and authority of an unofficial Member. If such an alteration were necessary, it ought to be proposed upon official authority. He would therefore suggest that after the House had gone into Committee progress should at once be reported, in order that an arrangement might be come to as to the course which was to be adopted.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he thought the term "reputed quart" preferable to "reputed quart bottle," otherwise the word "bottle" might be regarded as a measure of quantity.
 MR. COLLINS  said, he should oppose the Amendment. It was not right that persons who had made a declaration of their conscientious dissent from the doctrines of the Church of England should continue to be trustees of Church of England schools. The Amendment was an attempt to introduce by a side wind a most obnoxious principle.
 MR. COLLINS  said, he thought it a mistake that clergymen, whether of the Church of England or the Church of Rome, should be excluded from the House; but, as he could not consent to put those
 715
 MR. HALIBURTON  said, he did not agree with the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire, that the Bill went too far, or that it did not go far enough; on the contrary, it went about half-way. Judas departed from the church, and the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock wanted to give the clergy the same privilege which Judas exercised. Nobody would object to that if the right hon. Gentleman would also extend another privilege exercised by Judas, that they should all go and hang themselves.
 MR. COX  said, he thought there would be great difficulty in proving—first, that the person gave the order; and, next, that the spirits were actually delivered.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, that he had been informed by the highest authority that it would be more in accordance with order to move that the Chairman should report progress.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, that after the intimation of the right hon. Gentleman, he should, of course, withdraw his Motion.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he would move that the Chairman report progress. If the Tippling Act were to be amended at all, it ought to be effectually amended. He thought with the right hon. Gentleman opposite, that it would be better to withdraw the Bill, and see if the Government would in the next year bring forward the consideration of the whole question of licensing and the sale of spirits.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, that before the House went into Committee he wished to move—
 "That it be an Instruction to the Committee, that they have power to extend the operation of the Bill and of the Act thereby amended, to the Sale of Beer, Wine, and Cider."
 MR. BAINES  said, he hoped the Amendment of the hon. Member for Swansea would be acceded to in a willing spirit, for the concession asked for was a very small one. The Committee in recognising the rights of conscience ought to do so in a gracious manner.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he would admit that great evil arose from allowing scores to be run up for supplies of beer as well as of spirits; but at the same time he thought that the objection taken by his hon. Friend who had just sat down to the instruction was insuperable. It was only fair that when the interests of an extensive trade would be affected by a change in the law, the persons engaged in that trade should have due warning of it. That warning had not been given in the present instance, for the hon. Member for Bradford only put his notice on the paper which was issued on Saturday morning. He was not sure that there
 699
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he could not understand what was the object sought to be obtained in reporting progress. If it was intended to bring in another Bill, the proper course would be to move that the Chairman leave the chair. Moving to report progress would be merely to move that the Bill be postponed for a day or two.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the intention was to prevent spirits from being sold in small quantities except under exceptional circumstances, such as in case of illness. Delivery might be either by the servant of the seller or of the purchaser.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had no objection to the principle of the Bill, so far as it enabled parishes to effect voluntary commutation of church rates; but the measure provided no substitute whatever. If it were understood that the Bill would undergo thorough revision in Committee, he should not oppose the second reading of the measure.
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  observed that it was rendered incumbent on the seller to prove that the spirits were actually delivered at the house of the purchaser, and he wished to ask what was to be proof of delivery?
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, he hoped the Committee would not support the hon. Member in his proposition. He agreed with the hon. Member that the instruction he had suggested was a good one; but as it was not in form, and, above all, as it would have come on the parties interested by means of a side-wind, and in surprise, he thought they ought not to jeopardize the Bill, which contained some good provisions, by adopting such a course as that suggested by the hon. Member.
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, he had listened with great attention to the solemn warning which the House had just received from his hon. Friend, and he only trusted that the gloomy anticipations of his hon. Friend would not be entirely fulfilled. At the same time, he must confess that he viewed some portion of the Bill with great dissatisfaction. He was aware that the principle of the Bill had been affirmed by the House, and therefore that it was unusual to oppose the Motion for going into Committee; but he could not avoid expressing the surprise he felt that a Bill of such a nature should ever have come out of a Select Committee of the House of Commons. By the Bill itself all power of enforcing discipline and control over the clergy was entirely taken away from the bishops. Any person who quarrelled with his bishop, or preached any doctrine which left him open to ecclesiastical censure, had nothing to do but to declare that he conscientiously dissented from the opinions of the bishops, and he was at once,  ipso facto 707
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he thought there was something in the point raised by the hon. Member for Devizes. If the hon. Member was right in thinking that persons would avail themselves of the Bill, on the ground that there were some slight differences, such as those which he (Mr. D. Griffith) had pointed out between them and the Church of England, and not differences of that grave and fundamental character which the Committee had been asked to consider, the Committee ought to try whether they could not prevent such an application of the measure; and if they could not, it would be for them to consider whether they should not reject the Bill altogether. He thought, however,
 710
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, nobody disputed the merits of the Bill of the hon. Member for Rochester. The question was, whether the matter, which formed a part of the licensing system, should be dealt with separately. The object in moving to report progress was in order to see if they could not embody the principle adopted by the hon. Member for Rochester (Mr. P. W. Martin), and that of the hon. Member for Bradford (Mr. W. E. Forster) in the same Bill. He had no desire whatever to postpone
 702
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  said, that the only principle involved in the addition to the clause as it stood was that those who sought to relieve persons who dissented from the Church of England were not to go out of their way to infringe and insult the ecclesiastical law of the Church which those persons had left.
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  maintained that the clause only assumed that which was well known, namely, that in the eyes of the Church of England these orders were indelible. The observations of the hon. Member for Swansea, to the effect that a seceding clergyman, if he desired to return to his position in the Church, should go to the bishop and be ordained again might well induce persons to doubt the propriety of passing the Bill, unless guarded by such a clause as that proposed. Nevertheless, as the point was considered in the Select Committee, he advised the hon. Member (Mr. Lygon) not to raise the question again, but to let the Bill go as it was to the House of Lords with the incubus upon it of speeches which showed that some Members voted for the measure in opposition to the doctrine of the Church of England in reference to orders. Under the circumstances the Bill was not so likely to pass into a law as it otherwise might have been.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that arrangements were at present in progress for sending out the wives and families of soldiers who had been sent out to Canada, and accommodation would be provided in the same ship for the wives of officers.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that the Indian Government were organizing these regiments, but the officers could not be gazetted until the rolls were received in this country.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, if the hon. Baronet would move for a return upon the subject, he should be happy to lay it upon the table.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : What the hon. Baronet asked for is the details, and it would be more convenient and satisfactory to the House to lay these details on the table in writing. I can give the gross amount at any time that it may be convenient to the hon. Baronet.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the subject was under the consideration of a Committee who had not yet made their Report, and he was therefore not able to say what the recommendations would be, but he understood their attention had been directed to the subject to which the question of the hon. and gallant Member referred.
 MR. WHITE  said, that as the Japanese Ambassadors had left this country, he now wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the Ports of Japan will be open to British commerce in conformity with the Treaty with the Japanese, or whether the opening is to be postponed; and if so, if he will tell the House why?
 MR. LINDSAY  said, that as a whole he was well satisfied with the Bill, and he wished to thank his right hon. Friend for having introduced the measure, as he believed it would be of great service to the snipping interest. At the same time, he regretted that his right hon. Friend had not dealt with the question of compulsory pilotage. He regretted that it had not been swept away in every port in the United Kingdom. The Committee upon this subject had reported that wherever a system of voluntary pilotage prevailed there was an abundant supply of pilots. Take the cases of Cork and Falmouth. He believed that about the same number of vessels which called at Falmouth called at Cork. At the former the system of pilotage was compulsory, and there there were only thirty-six pilots; but at Cork, where it is perfectly optional with the master of a vessel to take a pilot, there were 303 pilots. He brought forward that statement in answer to the argument that any great change in the existing state of things would have the effect of reducing the number of pilots and jeopardizing life and property. At Sunderland the system of pilotage was voluntary, and they had no lack of pilots. They were to be found in all weathers on the look-out for ships, and they might frequently be seen as far down as Flamborough Head. But at Falmouth the pilots did not trouble themselves about going any distance to look out for ships, because they knew they would be paid whether their services were brought into requisition or not. He would therefore move the insertion of the following clause—
 "That the masters and owners of all ships, or of any classes of ships, shall not be obliged to employ pilots in any pilotage district, or shall not be obliged to pay for pilots when not employing them in any district, or in any part of any pilotage district."
 MR. HODGSON  said, that the hon. Member for Liverpool (Mr. Horsfall) had not told the House the reasons given by shipowners for their evidence in favour of compulsory pilotage. Mr. Duncan Dunbar
 735
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he would not press the clause.
 MR. MOFFATT  said, that at present there was no power to compel a person to enter into a contract before proceeding on a voyage; and in case of accident he might claim any amount he thought proper. That being the state of the law, it was an abundant reason why the clause should be agreed to by the House. It was in his opinion, a perfectly fair thing, and in accordance with the principle of the Bill, that shipowners should be allowed to limit their responsibility to a fixed sum.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, it seemed to him that the clause was one of a mischievous character, and he did not think it had been well considered. If the law in respect to the liability of shipowners as carriers ought to be altered where personal injury or loss of life was involved, then there could be no doubt that the alteration ought to be comprehensive and general. If the arguments in favour of the clause were good for anything, they would apply to railway companies and other persons carrying passengers for hire. He hoped his hon. and learned Friend would not persist in his proposal, but withdraw it.
 739
 MR. LINDSAY  said, the law as it stood was in a most unsatisfactory state. For instance, if the hon. and learned Gentleman and his clerk should take their passage in the same vessel, both paying a like sum to the shipowner, and both should be injured or lose their lives, the representative in the one case would claim a much larger sum than in the other, though the shipowner received no more from one than from the other passenger. The proposal, therefore, deserved consideration, although it might not be the proper moment for bringing it forward.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the question before them was one of the most important in its principle and object, which the House could have before it. It had been argued on the ground of humanity, and the hon. Baronet the Member for Portsmouth affirmed, that if the Royal Charter bad been supplied with cables of the Admiralty strain instead of the merchant strain, 497 lives would have been saved. It was easy to give that opinion; but how could the hon. Baronet venture to say, if she had been fitted with Admiralty chains, that they would have held the ship? Then as to the men of war in the Baltic, he (Mr. Henley) was informed that on board one of her Majesty's ships all the chain cables broke like glass, owing to the peculiar pitching of the sea, and that the ship was eventually brought up by a hempen cable. That showed that these precautions did not always save life. No doubt it was desirable that all ships should be furnished with cables and anchors of the best description in all cases. But the question was whether that end could be better secured by passing the clause than by leaving the matter to Lloyd's, who, it was quite plain, were taking it up. For his own part, he had no great faith in Government action, and he relied much more upon the merchant body themselves. Then, how often were these cables to be tried? Were the Board of Trade to make a regulation that no unfit ship should ever go to sea? Was the House prepared to go the length of saying that the Government was to see that every ship was seaworthy? He believed they would do better by leaving the matter to Lloyds, who employed persons far more experienced than any Queen's officers could be. But if the question were to be dealt with at all, it ought to be done
 747
 SIR, JAMES ELPHINSTONE  in explanation said, that the  Algiers
 MR. MOFFATT  said, that as Clause 52 imposed a large number of liabilities upon shipowners, he would move the following clause to be inserted immediately afterwards: —
 "Insurances effected against any or all of the events enumerated in the section last preceding, and occurring without such actual fault or privity sis therein mentioned, shall not he invalid by reason of the nature of the risk."
 MR. MILNER, GIBSON  said, he moved to add the following words:—
 "The 434th and 437th sections of the principal Act shall be read as if for the word 'nautical' were substituted the words 'nautical or engineering,' and as if for the words 'person' and assessor' respectively were substituted the words 'person or persons' and 'assessor or assessors' respectively. No certificate shall be cancelled or suspended under this section unless a copy of the report or a statement of the case upon which the investigation is ordered has been furnished to the owner of the certificate before the commencement of the investigation, nor unless one assessor at least expresses his concurrence in the report."
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he believed that the clause could not he worked, unless there should be introduced into it some such Amendment as that proposed by the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, because without it the general delivery of the goods would be postponed to suit the convenience of a particular consignee.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, that the Motion touched one of the evils which arose from compulsory pilotage. Let that be swept away, and then let the pecuniary responsibility fall where it ought. As long, however, as the law deprived a shipowner of the charge of his ship when she arrived within a pilotage district, it would be unjust to make him responsible for damage done by his vessel when under the care of a person imposed upon him by the State.
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the obstacles which existed in India to the increased growth of cotton, and the importance to India and to this country of their removal; and to move an Address for copy of further correspondence relating to the improvement of the navigation of the river Godavery. If he could convey to the House an adequate idea of the magnitude of the cotton manufactures of this country, he thought the House would agree with him that the question which he was desirous of bringing under its consideration was one of the highest national importance. The cotton manufacture of this country was the greatest industry that ever had or could by possibility have ever existed in any age or country. His hon. Friend the Member for Manchester, who was a great authority on cotton statistics, estimated, that if the cotton goods manufactured in this country were the work of hand labour instead of machinery, they would require the labour of 160 millions of people. Here was the secret of the immense wealth which they had derived from the cotton manufacture. By means of their wondrous machinery, they were able to produce with one million and a half of people as much as could be produced by 160 millions. This country had not only derived great riches from this manufacture, but millions in every part of the world had partaken, of the benefit of cheap and comfortable clothing; so that any interruption to our cotton trade might be regarded as little less than a world's calamity. It unfortunately happened, however, that the cotton manufacture of England had been dependent for many years almost solely on one source of supply. They had derived 85 per cent of their raw material from the United States of America. For many years past that dependence had been a source of great anxiety to the more intelligent and thoughtful of their manufacturers. When he had the honour of being President of the Manchester Chamber of Commerce, twenty years ago, it was a frequent subject of discussion, and they were continually importuning the East India Company to open out roads and rivers and to promote the growth of cotton in India. In 1848 his hon. Friend the Member for Birmingham moved for a Committee of that House to inquire into the subject of the
 755 756 757 758 759 d d d d 760 761 d "The essential interest of England requires that the territory of Nagpore should pass under the British Government, for the possession of
 762 d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d 763 764 765 766 767 768
 LORD NAAS  said, he thought the Admiralty had gone a great deal further than would appear from the statement of the noble Lord. They had not merely expressed a general opinion with regard to the duties of commanders under all circumstances, but they entered into the merits of the particular case and declared that they entirely disagreed from the finding of the court-martial which acquitted the Captain of the  Conqueror
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the hon. and gallant Baronet had asked two Questions—whether the Admiralty had acted legally in punishing, by reprimand, an officer fully acquitted by court-martial, and in visiting with censure arguments used in defence? It was in-
 795 Conqueror
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, he could not agree with the hon. Member who had just spoken, that the law had been laid down very clearly by the Attorney General. That hon. and learned Gentleman did not think it advisable to treat of abstract questions of law in that House; but the question before them was not an abstract question. It was a question of the honour of an officer, which honour had been most grossly outraged by the Admiralty. Perhaps hon. Gentlemen were not aware of the effect which the words "highly culpable," as applied to a gallant officer's conduct, would have on his prospects. He could not but think it a most outrageous thing for the Admiralty to have come forward and stigmatized Captain Sotheby in the manner they had done, after he had been fully and honourably acquitted by the officers appointed to try him.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the alleged inconvenient and dangerous state of the landing pier at Holyhead; and to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether the Government intend to take any and what steps so as to secure the safety of the Irish steam packets and the passengers from and to Ireland during the next winter? The landing pier at Holyhead was at present in an inconvenient and dangerous state.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he fully appreciated the motives of the hon. Member for Birkenhead in proposing the clause, but he would ask the House to pause before giving it their sanction and approval. It had been advocated on the ground that it would give additional security to life. But he would ask the House to remember the powers given to the Board of Trade by the Passengers Act with respect to that class of ships in which the greatest loss of life occurred. The Board had the superintendence of the fitting of these vessels and the power of teaching the owners how they ought to be navigated. Lloyds and the insurance companies were, for their own security, also interested in looking after them. Surely, under these circumstances, it was much better to leave the owners to manage their own affairs. The Board of Trade already possessed extensive powers, and he objected to any increase of those powers, but rather hoped that the House would see the necessity of restraining them.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, Her Majesty's Government were anxious to carry out the necessary improvements of the pier at Holyhead but, however important it was that the work should be carried on during the fine weather of the summer, it was positively necessary to
 798
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  hoped that his hon. and gallant Friend would not press for the production of the correspondence between the Admiralty and Admiral Milne; but he should have no objection to produce the general order which had been issued in consequence of the court-martial referred to, and the object of which was to correct the erroneous view taken by the officers composing that court as to the responsibility of a captain on occasions when a ship was in danger. The communications between the Admiralty and its officers, although they were conducted as public correspondence, were to all intents and purposes departmental and to a great extent confidential. If that system were altered, the result would be that officers would make their reports with a view to publica-
 794 Conqueror
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether it is true that the services of Captain Sherrard Osborne, or of any other Officer of Her Majesty's Navy, are to be placed at the disposal of the Chinese Government; whether such Officer will be paid by the Chinese Government, and whether he will, at the same time, retain his commission and continue to receive pay as an Officer in
 731
 MR. AYRTON  said, he would then propose the insertion of a clause for the purpose of limiting liability for loss of life or injury. The clause was to the effect, that where the owner of a ship at the time of engagement delivered a written or printed memorandum that he would not be answerable to a greater extent than £150 for loss of life or injury to a passenger, his liability should be limited to that amount. In the Merchant Shipping Act a provision was introduced by which the liability of shipowners in regard to passengers was put, in one respect, on the same principle as in regard to goods — namely, the shipowner was made responsible only to the extent of the value of his ship. The shipowner received one stated and unvarying amount from every passenger of the same class, but no provision was introduced into that Act to relieve him from the difficulty which resulted from the fact that persons might come on board his ship, who might in case of accident set up enormous claims, of which he could have no possible cognizance. The object of the clause he proposed was to limit the responsibility of the shipowner in relation to passengers on precisely the same principle as it was limited in relation to goods. Until Lord Campbell's Act passed, a shipowner was only liable for an injury to a passenger in case the passenger survived, but Lord Campbell's Act provided that the relations of the deceased should also have the right of action. That Act enormously increased the responsibility of shipowners towards their passengers, and had ended in results of a most unjust character. If a gentleman of fortune, possessed of a landed estate, lost his life on board a ship, the son would not he able to bring an action for substantial damages; but if a man of the same station, but possessed of no landed estate, died from a similar cause, his representatives would be entitled to bring an action, though it must certainly
 737
 MR. AYRTON  said, he did not think
 752
 MR. AYRTON  said, the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade had not fulfilled the pledge given before the Select Committee that a magistrate and two assessors should sit as a Court of Inquiry, and that one magistrate and one assessor should not have the power to cancel the certificate of a master, mate, or engineer. He would accordingly move the insertion of a clause that the Board of Trade should appoint a naval court, to be presided over by a magistrate, assisted by two assessors of nautical skill and experience.
 MR. FINLAY  said, that a more important subject than that under discussion could not occupy the attention of the House. He had himself attempted to improve and extend the cultivation of cotton in India; but he had always found that, even where the best seed was used, the crop deteriorated in quality after the first year or two, a result which one might expect from the nature of the soil and climate. He did not think, therefore, that Indian cotton would ever equal that grown in America. Still the quality might be very much improved, so as to render the cotton of a useful character. It would be necessary, however, to act directly with the ryots. They were so poor that they could not cultivate until they got advances to buy seed; but those advances would be made if some security were given to purchasers over the growing crop; and some law should be passed in India for that purpose. He thought that many hon. Members were too sanguine in expecting a large increase of Indian cotton within the next two or three years. The improvement and the extension of cultivation in any country were slow processes, and he confessed that he did not see where supplies were to be got from unless from America. With respect to the means of communication, he suggested that in districts where regular roads could not be made for want of stones and other materials, tramways to be worked by horses could be laid down at a small expense.
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, they had tolerably clear evidence that the Indian Government were thoroughly in earnest in doing all that could be done to facilitate the transport of cotton in India. He could not agree with the hon. Member for Dumbartonshire that India could not be regarded as more than an ancillary field for the production of cotton, and that they must always depend mainly upon the Southern States of America. He believed, on the contrary, that they must in future look to India and their other dependencies for the great bulk of our cotton supply; and he, for one, would not regard the civil war in America as an unmixed evil if it should lead to the development of the material resources of India. Nor could be concur in the sarcastic remarks of the hon. Member for Dumbartonshire relative to a late Governor of Madras. Sir Charles Trevelyan had proved himself in the long run no bad prophet in matters of finance, and
 789
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he would express the hope that the right hon. Gentleman would consider the propriety of giving local magistrates the same power as formerly of adjudicating upon all matters connected with salvage.
 MR. LAYARD  said, that application had been made, on behalf of the Chinese Government, for the services of Captain Sherrard Osborne and other officers. The subject was under the consideration of the Government, but he was not aware that any decision had yet been come to upon it. He did not know that any gunboat had been lent to the Chinese Government?
 MR. LAYARD  said, Her Majesty's Government had consented to defer for a period of five years, to commence from the 1st of January, 1863, the fulfilment of those portions of the 3rd article of the treaty between Great Britain and Japan, of the 26th August, 1858, which provided for the opening to British subjects of the ports of Neagata and Hiogo, and for the residence of British subjects in Yedo and Osaca. The other obligations of the Treaty
 733
 MR. LAYARD : By the agents of the Chinese Government in this country.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : I quite concur with those who think that it is impossible at any time to overrate the importance of this subject, both to England and to India; and certainly the existence of what has been not inaptly called the cotton famine—the want of materials, and the consequent want of employment, for the population of Lancashire—now makes this subject one of ten times greater importance than ever. As my hon. Friend has stated, I had yesterday the honour of receiving a deputation of working men from Lancashire. Better-behaved and more reason-
 777 778 779 Edinburgh Review 780 "I am convinced from my own experience that if a remunerative price is tendered on the spot, anything may be grown, although the existence of the most profitable market, if it is not close at hand, seems to offer no inducement to the ryot to depart from his usual custom." 781 "Thirty, forty, and fifty years ago there was a considerable trade in cotton, and it was largely exported to China and England. The merchants and planters in the North West had cotton factories and cotton screws at Futtehghur, Calpee, and Mirzapore, but the trade gradually died away.
 782 783 784 785
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether, in the Revised Warrant for Barrack Masters now under consideration, the officers, whose ages vary from sixty-five to eighty, and who may under its provisions be expected to retire, will be included in the improved retiring regulations?
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he perfectly agreed with his hon. Friend in the opinion that the Bill was a good Bill, but that it did not go far enough. Still, he did not think it was expedient to press the Amendment. There was no doubt of the advantages of the voluntary system of pilotage, but it was impossible to make great and precipitate changes without doing mischief. He thought the hon. Member might be satisfied with having persuaded the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, to introduce the small end of the wedge, and in time the country would come round to the opinion that the voluntary system was the best.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he entirely concurred with the hon. Baronet (Sir J. Elphinstone) in the importance which, he attached to the subject. It had been asked why should not the shipowners be allowed to manage their own affairs? No doubt it was most desirable that they should do so; but what, he would ask, was every clause of the Bill but an interference with private rights? The supporters of the clause, however, only asked the Government to interfere to save human life when it might be saved. He did not think the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade had been able to make out a good case against the clause. The right hon. Gentleman said that it only conveyed an opinion, and was not practical. Now, that was precisely the merit of the clause. Its object was to give the Board of Trade the power of dealing with the grievance. What would have been said if the hon. Member for Birkenhead had brought forward a distinct and specific plan? Why, that it was an interference with the Executive in matters of detail. The right hon. Gentleman went out of his way, and said that the stock of chains in hand would become useless in the event of this clause being adopted. Did the right hon. Gentleman mean to say that he upheld the system of passing off rotten chains? And then with respect to the question of expense, did the right hon. Gentleman mean to sanction the use of rotten chains because they were cheaper than good ones? As to the question of time, ample time would be allowed under the clause for testing every cable in every part of great Britain. He contended that wherever fraud existed it ought to be put a stop to, especially when it involved the loss of a large amount of life. There was no difficulty whatever in testing chains and anchors; and if the right hon. Gentleman did not consent to
 744
 MR. BENTINCK  said, that the present system gave rise to constant injustice. Very often a vessel had the option in narrow waters of either running down a barge laden with a valuable cargo or going on shore; and the consequence was that the pilot, not being really responsible, ran over the barge and sank her. In point of fact, the present law was almost an invitation to adopt that course; whereas by making the owners responsible, the pilots would be far more likely to exercise due care. It was a monstrous injustice that people who were so treated should have no remedy, and he hoped the hon. Member would persist in his Amendment.
 MR. FENWICK  said, that no doubt it
 743
 MR. CLAY  said, that he would not then pronounce any opinion on the abstract value of the proposal of the hon. Member for Sunderland. His hon. Friend, however, had not told them how existing interests were to be dealt with. His hon. Friend would destroy the whole edifice, and leave the ruin to take care of itself. He hoped the House would refuse its sanction to so great a change proposed to be made in so hasty a manner.
 MR. CLAY  said, that if the shipowners were so anxious for the provision as had been represented, they might carry it out without the interposition of Parliament. As far as his experience went, however,
 745
 MR. J. A. TURNER  said, he should leave the hon. Member for Dumbartonshire (Mr. Smollett) and the hon. Member for Stockport (Mr. J. B. Smith) to settle their difference about the fertility or sterility of the districts bordering the Godavery. The one question to which he wished to address himself was the awful —he would use no other word—position in which this country was placed by the prospect of an utter cessation in the supply of cotton. Whether the Godavery was navigable or not, and whether the district through which it flowed produced cotton or not, need not be discussed. It was an ascertained fact that India in some parts did produce cotton to a larger amount than even the United States of America. It was certainly cotton of an inferior quality; but the object was to secure a supply of that article from India, and, if possible, of a better quality. His hon. Friend (Mr. J. B. Smith) had referred to some experiments he (Mr. Turner) had made; but his hon. Friend was not quite correct as to the person of whom he purchased cotton grown in India a few years ago. He did not buy it of Mr. Shaw. He bought it in India itself from an American planter employed there by the East India Company. In July, 1847, he sent an order to Mr. Mercer, the superintendent of the cultivation of cotton in the Dharwar, to send him a quantity of the best cotton from American seed which he could procure in the district, and also some native cotton. The two lots cost precisely the same price, and were landed
 775 d 776
 MR. BRIGHT : By whom was the application made, and when?
 MR. LAIRD  said, he rose to move a clause to make it imperative that chains, cables, and anchors should be impressed with an official proof-mark. A Committee of the House had reported that the cables in the navy, which were thoroughly tested, rarely gave way, while of those which were used in the merchant service, and were not tested, a large percentage failed. His own experience bore out the statement of the Committee. He had made it a rule not to receive any cables or anchors which had not been proved at a public machine, and since then he had heard no complaints as to their quality from the persons to whom he supplied them. The shipowners would have to bear the cost of the operation, and they were generally in favour of his proposal. The Peninsular and Oriental, the North American Mail, the Royal Atlantic Mail, and other shipping companies supported his clause, as did also Sir S. Cunard, Messrs. Wigram, &c. He had found no difficulty in enforcing this provision in his own case. There were large public testing machines at London, Liverpool, Birkenhead, and elsewhere. He would therefore move the insertion of the following clause:—
 "That on and after the 1st day of January, 1864, all chain cables and anchors bought or sold for use on board British ships registered in the United Kingdom shall be impressed with an official proof-mark as evidence of having been subjected to an authorized proof equal to the tensile strain applied by Admiralty regulations to all cables and anchors used in the Royal Navy; the Board of Trade to be empowered to make such rules and regulations thereon as may from time to time appear necessary to ensure the efficiency of ships' ground tackle; to grant licences to public and corporate bodies to apply the required test and authorized proof to all such cables and anchors; to impress a proof-mark, and to give proof certificates thereof for production when required."
 MR. LOCKE  said, he thought the clause did interfere with the freedom of contract; for if a shipowner should hand a ticket to a passenger, that of itself would limit his liability, and by the clause the passenger must take the ticket. [Mr. AYRTON: The passenger need not go.] But suppose
 740
 MR. LOCKE  said, he should oppose the Amendment. The Amendment only provided for the case of the shipowner failing to inform the consignee when his goods would be delivered; but suppose the shipowner did inform the consignee when his goods would be delivered, and failed then to deliver them, there was no remedy provided for such a case. The Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman would produce great ambiguity, and might lead to the greatest injustice.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he had listened with great pleasure to the speech of his right hon. Friend. It was quite clear that the attention of the Government had been seriously directed to the Indian colonies with the view of increasing the supply of cotton, and he believed, with the measures which had been taken, there was a better prospect of supply from that district than they ever had before. He had accompanied a deputation yesterday to the India Board, with reference to the great distress which existed in the cotton manufactories in Lancashire; and the right hon. Gentleman did no more than justice to the operatives who composed that deputation when he said that they conducted their case with the greatest good sense and moderation, and urged their arguments with an ability which must have surprised any one who was not acquainted with the character of those whom he had the honour to represent. One of the arguments then used he had taken the liberty of urging on the attention of the right hon. Gentleman. He referred to the great importance of a very trifling percentage on the manufactures of this country, in the competition their manufacturers were obliged to maintain in the different markets of the world. It was stated that even 1 per cent would often turn the scale; and as the cotton manufactures of England had been subjected by the Government of India to the duty of 10 per cent, which he was grateful to think had been reduced to 5 per cent, he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would be enabled to reduce that percentage still lower. With a 10 per cent
 786
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he was of opinion that the country viewed with great satisfaction the course adopted by the Admiralty in this case. If they had not interfered, the doctrine would have gone forth that captains were not responsible for the navigation of their ships. The law had been laid down very clearly by the hon, and learned Attorney General.
 MR. SMOLLETT  said, that past experience had fully shown that the Southern States of America were the regions of the world best suited for the growth of the finest and cheapest cotton in the world, and in any quantity. The occurrence of the civil war in America had, during the last twelve months, put a, stop to the supplies; but he was convinced, that if order could be re-established and peace be restored, this country would in the course of a short time derive a great portion of its cotton supplies from the Southern States of America. India, however, would still be a valuable auxiliary, and as such it was important to discover the obstacles which impeded the growth of cotton there. He was not prepared to admit that there was any necessity for the Indian Government giving any direct encouragement to the growth of cotton in India. But if there was any obstacle either to the growth of cotton or to its shipment when grown, these obstacles ought to be removed.
 769 770 771 Pottinger Pottinger 772 773 "I observe by his letter to your Government of the 30th of April, 1857, that Colonel Davidson, the Resident at Hyderabad, expresses opinions on the feasibility and advisability of the opening-up of the Godavery adverse to those held by the Madras Government and the engineer officers who have examined the river; and I deem it necessary to request you to intimate to that officer, that though his views may not accord with those that have been put forward by the advocates of the project, I must expect his ready and full cooperation, in bringing the matter to a successful issue." 774
 MR. R. HODGSON  said, that he wished to move an Amendment in Schedule A, having for its object the repeal of the 388th section of the Merchant Shipping Act, which relieved shipowners from liability in cases where the employment of pilots was compulsory. The effect of the present system was, that no real responsibility rested upon any one, because every one knew that it was idle for a shipowner who had been damaged by his craft being run down by a ship under the charge of a pilot, to bring an action against the pilot, although such pilot might have given the usual security of £100, it being well known that the pilots had no effects; and, indeed, in one case in which an action was brought, it was found that the pilot had sold off his goods and emigrated to Australia. He had no doubt whatever that he should be told that it would be unjust to the shipowner to make him liable for the carelessness of a pilot over whom he had no control, but he could not see the force of that objection. The pilot was employed for the main purpose of bringing the ship and cargo into port safely; and if in the process of that operation the vessel ran down another, surely the owner ought to be liable just as much as if it had done so without any pilot. He believed the repeal of the section would tend to impose on the pilots a sense of responsibility which would render them far more careful than they now were. At present, practically speaking, there was no remedy whatever for the owners of a vessel which had been run down by another under the compulsory charge of a pilot.
 MR. COLLIER  said, there could be no real objection to the clause. He could understand that tickets in the form proposed might not be sufficient notice to the persons who might take them. To remedy that objection, he would suggest that every ticket should be signed by the party to whom it was delivered. The clause did not, in his opinion, interfere with the freedom of contract.
 MR. GREGSON  said, it was unfortunate that we had not earlier considered the danger of depending almost entirely on one source of supply; and he believed that if enterprise and capital had been expended on India in former years, the supply of cotton from that country would have been sufficient to meet all the demands that could be made upon it. Last year the western side of India supplied nearly a million bales. He was afraid, however, that if the affairs in America should be settled, we should neglect India as before. All that was wanting to ensure the cultivation of cotton in India, was that the native cultivators should feel assured that there would be permanency in the demand, and they would easily raise the production to two or three million bales a year. What he recommended was that the capitalists should themselves take up the matter. Instead of crying to Jupiter for help, let them put their own shoulders to the wheel. If they would but supply capital, the skill and labour necessary would be easily forthcoming. He sympathized greatly with the distress of the manufacturing districts, and he regretted that the finances of India would not permit the removal of the duty on English imports, but, at the same time, he thought they should remember that India had herself reason to complain. It would be only too glad if her sugar, for instance, was taxed no more than 5 per cent, instead of 50 per cent.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  considered it doubtful whether the result of the proposal of the hon. Gentleman, even if adopted, would be what he wished. The compulsory pilot was the servant of the State, and he considered that the common law of the country would not hold the shipowner liable for the acts of such pilot. He did not think it would be just to the shipowners to repeal this section of the Act.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that if he had to discuss the abstract merits of the voluntary or of the compulsory system, in that case he should, in all probability, agree with his hon. Friend the Member for Sunderland. But before they introduced a general principle of that sort it was necessary to have regard to the existing circumstances under which they found the pilotage law in operation. The Government had endeavoured to meet as far as possible every complaint, having at the same time due regard to the just claims which had grown up under the present system. One of the complaints which had been made against the compulsory system would be met by a provision in the measure under which a vessel seeking a port for shelter, and not for the purpose of discharging a cargo, would be relieved from the necessity of employing a pilot. There was another provision, under which any person thinking himself aggrieved by the oppressive character of the pilotage system in a particular port, might address a complaint upon the subject to the Board of Trade; and that Board, if it should think proper, might then, for the purpose of removing the evil, issue a provisional order, which would await the future sanction of Parliament. In the Bill powers were also given to the Board of Trade to alter the
 736
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, his hon. and learned Friend proposed to limit very materially the liability of shipowners towards their passengers and the public. The two propositions, with regard to personal injury and loss of life, were separate, and stood upon a different footing. In the case of personal injury there was no necessity for any legislation in order to provide for the object of his hon. Friend; because, as the law stood, there was nothing to prevent any person going on board a steamer from entering into a special contract if he thought fit, that the owners of the vessel should be liable to damages limited to £150 or £100 in case of loss of limb or
 738
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he was sorry that he could not accept the clause, which was rather an indication of opinion than a practical enactment. The Board of Trade were to be required to frame rules and regulations on the subject, but no machinery was provided to carry them out.
 741
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he considered the words of the Amendment sufficiently explicit to meet the case supposed by his hon. and learned Friend; because, if the shipowner informed the consignee of a time at which his goods could not be delivered, he must be considered as having failed to inform him of a time when they could be delivered. The consignee in such case would be entitled to twenty-four hours' notice.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the Select Committee on Merchant Shipping, of which he had been a member, intended that the gross tonnage should be taken when a ship was measured to determine the
 749 Leinster Robert Lowe Leinster Robert Lowe Leinster 750
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he would then move the insertion, after the word "things" in line 40, Clause 52, of the words "whether there be in addition loss of life or personal injury or not." The object of the Amendment was to remove obscurity from the clause, and make it clear that £15 per ton was the  maximum maximum
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  stated, that if the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman were withdrawn, he would make the proposal of which he had given notice.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he had then to propose a verbal Amendment in section 7 of the clause. The section provided that where the shipowner had failed to make delivery of the goods to a consignee who had offered to take them, the former, before landing the goods, should give the latter twenty-four hours' notice in writing, otherwise the lauding should be made at his own risk and expense. He proposed after the words "has failed to make such delivery," to insert "and has also failed at the time of such offer"— that is, the offer on the part of the consignee to take the goods—"to inform the owner of the goods of the time at which such goods can be delivered."
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, it had formerly been the practice of the Board of Trade to appoint one assessor to assist the magistrate. It was, however, now the practice to appoint two assessors, and the change was found to work well. There was therefore no occasion for the clause.
 MR. HORSFALL  said, he hoped the House would not adopt the clause proposed by his hon. Friend the Member for Sunderland. He would remind them that his hon. Friend had appeared amongst them as the representative of the shipping interest. He brought forward a long list of grievances suffered by that interest, and moved for a Committee to inquire into those grievances. While the Committee obtained by the hon. Member was sitting, no less than nineteen or twenty shipowners were questioned on the subject of compulsory pilotage, and only four of those were found to support the view of his hon. Friend. Of those four, two were constituents of the hon. Gentleman himself. Not satisfied with that, his hon. Friend brought forward a clause in Committee to do away with compulsory pilotage in every part of Great Britain. When the question of the adoption of that clause was put to the vote, only two Members of the Committee supported the hon. Member for Sunderland. With that decision of the Committee against him, his hon. Friend had now the modesty to come to the House and ask them to adopt his preconceived opinions. In the Bill before the House there was ample provision for doing away with compulsory pilotage in cases where it was shown to be objectionable. As regarded the port of Liverpool —where the system was compulsory—it was the only port in the kingdom to which special reference was made in the Report as having the pilotage in a satisfactory state. He trusted the House would reject the clause.
 MR. HORSFALL  said, he would remind the House that the pilot being responsible to the amount of £100, it would be a matter of great importance to him not to incur such a fine, and it was amply sufficient to induce him to take due care.
 COLONEL W. STUART  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether a free passage will be granted to the wives and families of officers who were sent out to Canada during the past winter, or any other allowance be made to enable them to join their husbands in Canada?
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that in the Berar district the finest crops of cotton could be produced—cotton equal to the production of any part of the world. The hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bazley) had inspected specimens of cotton grown by Dr. Reddell at Hyderabad without irrigation, the value of which the hon. Member fixed at 19 d 790
 MR. VANSITTART  could not admit that past Governments had done nothing to promote the growth of cotton in India, because it was distinctly proved before the Colonization Committee, that all that was needed was that English capitalists should prove to the natives that they were in earnest in this matter, and were not pre-
 793
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  said, he wish-ed to ask the Secretary of State for War, Why the Officers of the 19th, 20th, and 21st Hussars, and of the regiments of Infantry from the 101st to the 108th inclusive, are not gazetted; it being understood that all these regiments are embodied, and that the officers of most of them have been appointed and have performed their regimental duties for a considerable time?
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for War, What amount of public charge is created by Contract at the fifty-five places stated in Parliamentary Paper No. 267 of this Session, where Contracts on account Of Fortifications have been made: and
 732
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to ask if the right hon. Baronet will state the gross amount?
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he wished to move, in line 38, after "fifteen pounds," to insert "per registered ton in the case of failing ships, and twenty pounds per registered ton in the case of steam ships." He advocated the principle of the registered tonnage being the measure of liability, because it had been always adhered to up to the present time; and there would be great inconvenience in introducing a contrary system, because it would be extremely impolitic to give an inducement to steamboat owners to make their engine-room as small and their engines as little powerful as possible, and because the Committee of the House which sat upon the subject of merchant shipping had recommended it. Steamboat proprietors were willing that the rate should be £20 per ton, provided the register tonnage were taken. The liability imposed by the Bill would be very much above the value of the steam tonnage over the country, and by its adoption a great injustice would be done to the steam-shipping interest.
 MR. CAIRD  said, it was one of the first duties of the Government of India to form roads and open up the communications with the interior. If that had been done, we should now have been able to obtain from India much of that cotton which was now so much required. The right hon. Gentleman had read a letter, stating that in Upper India the ryots were ignorant of the fact of an increased demand on the part of England for Indian cotton. If this were so, it must be owing to the neglect of the officers of the Indian Government, who should have made the native cultivators acquainted with a fact of such great importance. He doubted whether the Government realized the immense importance of the present crisis. In his opinion, the famine in Ireland was not to be compared with the existing danger. A quarter of the whole population was directly dependent on the supply of cotton for its livelihood, and what seriously affected one important interest of the country could not fail to affect others also. With regard to our future supply from America, it had been said that not only the last crop, but the crop now in the ground would pour in upon them as soon as peace was re-established. But he had had, on the preceding day, the opportunity of conversing with a gentleman from one of the Southern States of America, who said that not an acre of cotton had been planted in his district the present year. The Southerners refrained from planting, not merely from fear of being
 791 792
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he wished to move for a copy of the correspondence of the Board of Admiralty in reference to the late naval court-martial held at Bermuda, which acquitted the Captain of the  Conqueror
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he bad presented a petition in favour of
 742 Royal Charter
 SIR JOHN HAY  seconded the Motion.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, it must be subversive of all discipline in the navy to learn that a solemn expression of opinion by the Lords of the Admiralty that a particular officer's conduct had been "highly culpable" was not to be looked on by that officer as a punishment. He believed that no punishment could be more severe to a high-minded man than to pronounce that he had been guilty of culpable negligence. It was the very first instance in which such a course had been attempted on the part of the Admiralty. The only way in which it could be attempted to justify the measure was by the Navy Discipline Act of 1860. In the Act of 1860 there was
 796 Conqueror
 MR. CAVE  moved, page 25, paragraph 7, line 6, after "such delivery," to insert "without due cause." He thought the whole paragraph unnecessary, because, though it was very probable that an owner of goods might wish to keep them on board ship longer than he ought, the converse was not very likely to be true—namely, that a shipowner when discharging his vessel should wish to detain them without cause; and there was this practical objection to the clause, that in case of a ship entering port with a cargo belonging to several consignees, the one whose goods were at the bottom might demand them before it was possible that they could be got at, and then he would be entitled to twenty-four hours' notice, which would be simply nullifying the object of the Bill, and returning to the old system of delay and waste of time. He (Mr. Cave) would prefer omitting the clause; but, failing that, he proposed introducing the words of which he had given notice, in order to prevent abuse of its provisions. The right hon.
 751 pro formâ
 MR. BAZLEY  said, the object of his hon. Friend the Member for Stockport had his cordial approval, but he wished to correct one or two slight mistakes into which his hon. Friend had fallen. The Governor of Madras was not only convinced that cotton of the required quality could be grown in India, but he was engaged in giving every possible assistance to effect the required improvement. He was happy to state that only a few days before he had the satisfaction of receiving a letter from the Governor, dated the 24th of February, 1862, in which he said—
 "I have arrived at the same conclusion as yourself, that the cotton you require in England, I mean cotton equal in quality to the average New Orleans, may be grown in Madras." 787 788
 MR. HUTT  said, that although the Committee which had been referred to was convinced that it was desirable that cables and anchors, superior in make and material to those which were generally employed, should be used, they reported that it would be inexpedient to force their; adoption upon the shipping interest by means of penal laws. He held in his hand a letter from a civil engineer of eminence who had been employed by Lloyd's to carry out the object of establishing testing machinery. The gentleman to whom he referred was examined before the Committee, and it might be satisfactory to the House to hear this passage in his letter—
 "You, no doubt, are aware how Lloyd's Committee is formed; it being composed of one-third merchants, one-third underwriters, and one-third shipowners, of which Thomas Chapman, Esq., is chairman. The Committee, upon knowing the decision the Government had arrived at, determined to take up the question, and I am at this time engaged professionally by them to carry out the object of establishing proper public testing machinery, and they in January last passed the enclosed resolutions, which you will see come into force on the first day of next year. The effect of these is that no vessel can be registered at Lloyd's to have an A 1 class or certificate unless these rules are complied with. I am putting down for them most powerful and complete machinery for the port of London at the West India Docks, which will be ready before the winter, and every means will be taken (if the Committee con-
 746
 MR. JACKSON  observed, that there was abundant evidence before the Committee to show the necessity of the power of testing being given to some proper authority. The hon. Member who had just spoken had treated the matter as one of insurance, but the evidence before the Committee showed that it was one of premium. He apprehended that it was the duty of the House so to legislate as to give the greatest amount of protection to Her Majesty's subjects on board those merchant ships in which they embarked; and if it was once known that the Government were determined that every anchor and cable should be subjected to a sufficient test, shipowners would take care that the requisition was complied with. The opposition to the plan was got up by the owners of small craft, the loss on which was 80 per cent out of the whole loss on shipping. It was useless for the Board of Trade to say they could not carry out the plan. They took all the patronage they could obtain, and ought to take the responsibility; and if they declined doing so, the House ought to make them.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I can quite understand that hon. Members may take an interest in the individual captain the subject of this discussion; but I trust the House will take an interest in the ships of Her Majesty's navy. Now, I think the
 797
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he rose to move for leave to introduce a Bill to carry into effect the treaty between Her Majesty and the United States of America for the suppression of the African slave trade. The American Government had behaved in the handsomest manner in reference to the treaty. They had long been aware that the American flag had been perverted as a cover for carrying on the slave trade, and sensible of the evil and inconvenience to which that practice had given rise, they had of their own accord proposed the treaty, which was in all respects adapted, as far as their flag was concerned, to put an end to the perpetration of the crime.
 LORD NAAS  said, he did not desire to exclude from exemption buildings wholly devoted to religious purposes, but it was his wish to limit the exemption to certain cases. Year by year the evil of property being exempted from the payment of poor rates was increasing. In the two unions of the city of Dublin property of the value of nearly £67,000 a year was exempted from poor rates altogether. Under the operation of the law there was no definite rule to guide the Valuation Commissioners, and the consequence was that several inferior institutions in Dublin were exempted. Amongst them was the office of the Royal Agricultural Society, the Committee House of Charitable Societies, in Circus Street; sextons' dwellings, the Irish Church Mission House, the residence of the governor of the military prison, the Canteen, Royal Barracks, the School of Medicine. Trinity College, however, a building wholly devoted to educational purposes, was not exempt. In the year 1861–2, a Vote of £60,000 was taken by the Government in aid of the local assessment to the poor rate, upon property in their possession, thereby admitting the principle that that class of property ought to contribute. But, perhaps, the worst case was that of Dublin Castle, occupied by persons living in commodious nouses and drawing Government salaries, but who contributed nothing to the rate. He was in favour of the clause as amended, not wishing that exemption should be extended beyond the classes of property comprised in the Amendment.
 LORD NAAS  said, the circumstances in Ireland were altogether different from those in England; and assimilation of the machinery of voting was therefore not a desideratum.
 LORD NAAS  said, he thought it would be a fair compromise to substitute "twenty" for "ten" as the limit of proxies which any one person was entitled to hold. From
 803 maximum
 LORD NAAS  explained, that since he had expressed the opinion to which the right hon. Baronet had referred, he had
 804
 LORD NAAS  observed, that he thought the provision in the clause was a very good one.
 LORD NAAS  said, that in that case the words "by the Commissioners" should be omitted also, so as to make the clause extend to dismissals by boards of guardians.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that this Return had to be founded upon the accounts of the Royal Gun Factory for the year ending the 31st of March last. These accounts had only lately been made up in a complete form. The Return would shortly be ready.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether the Plans of the Forts proposed to be erected at Spithead have been finally determined on; and, if so, what is the estimated cost of each of those Forts; and whether it has been decided what shall be the number and calibre of the guns to be placed in each Fort, and what is the estimated cost of such armament.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that he should on Monday next move a Resolution with respect to Fortifications, and he would then give the information which was desired by the noble Lord.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, that the charge which had been insinuated by the hon. Member for Dungarvan against his hon. Friend the Member for Southwark was even more offensive than if it had been more directly made; and having himself, as a director of the Ottoman Bank, a personal knowledge of the matter, he was able to give—and should feel ashamed of himself if he had not risen to give—his direct denial, on his honour as a gentleman and a Member of that House, to the charge so insinuated against his hon. Friend. He could appeal to facts which would carry conviction to the mind—he would not say of the hon. Member for Dungarvan, but of every person who would consider the subject in a fair and candid manner. The views of his hon. Friend the Member for Southwark with respect to the resources of Turkey had been known ever since he first sat in that House; and there was nothing new in his affirming that with good management the finances of that country might be put in a sound position. His hon. Friend became chairman of the Ottoman Bank; and when he ceased to be so, he was appointed Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs. It might, therefore, have been thought, when the Turkish Government wanted a loan, that the Ottoman Bank was the right quarter to apply first to in the matter. But was that done? The loan was issued to a respectable firm at Constantinople; and when its representatives came to London to get it negotiated, they went straight to an eminent house in the City, and it was only when driven by refusals on all sides and from all other bodies that they came near the Ottoman Bank. When they applied to that bank, the answer of its directors was, "We believe we can issue this loan upon certain conditions; but, having some years before been interested in the issue of a loan for the purpose of placing the finances of Turkey in a healthy state, we decline altogether to have anything to do with this one without having some sort of security that it will be applied to the purposes for which it is raised." The question then arose what means should be taken to secure that object. The Ottoman Bank, after considering the matter, informed both the Turkish Minister and the negotiators of the loan that unless the English Government would appoint some person to see to its proper
 840
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, there was one important point upon which there appeared to exist some misapprehension—the position of Her Majesty's Government, and the responsibility of its officers in relation to the subject before the House. The question had been treated as, in effect, the same as if the
 841 842 British Star
 MR. DIGBY SEYMOUR  said, he must protest against the somewhat extravagant charge, that the Government had taken a rush or a jump to put down the paper. There was nothing in the political character either of the hon. and learned Attorney General or of the hon. Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs to warrant such an accusation. The hon. and learned Attorney General had placed the question upon international grounds which were quite irresistible; but at the same time he hoped that the Government would not refuse to accept the suggestion of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield.
 MAJOR KNOX  said, that looking to the existing state of things in Ireland, it was a matter of the deepest importance that trial by jury should be properly conducted. What they had to look to in the case before them was whether the matter complained of was the result of ignorance or design. From information which had come to his knowledge, he believed it could be proved that it was the result of design. Soon after the rumour that the jury panel was about to be tampered with by the new sub-sheriff got abroad, he (Major Knox) met the High Sheriff in London, and that gentleman told him that the report was false, that he had appointed sub-sheriff one to whom be owed some kindness, but the sub-sheriff was to have nothing whatever to do with the selection of the jurors. He had read a letter to the right hon. Baronet which would show that the sub-sheriff did take part in the selection of the jury. The letter stated that Mr. M'Crossan in a certain town of the county asked the head constable what persons in the town were respectable enough to sit on the jury; that the head constable not having been long in the place was not able to inform him; that he then applied to a constable, who at first refused to give the information, but did so at last by the
 852
 MR. CORRY  said, that the hon. Member who had just sat down appeared to think that the statement made by the hon. and learned Member for Wexford—namely, that Mr. M'Crossan had not practiced during the Spring Assizes in the Crown Court —was a complete answer to part of the case laid before the House from his noble Friend and Colleague; but he was in a position to deny the accuracy of that statement, and on the best possible authority, which was no less than that of Mr. M'Crossan himself. Mr. M'Crossan had rendered valuable service in the grand jury room during the transaction of fiscal business; but after the Judges had arrived, and bills of indictment were sent up, he requested his (Mr. Corry's) permission to absent himself, on the express ground that he was retained in several of the cases, and could not, therefore, be considered an impartial grand juror. But that was not all—on the fol-
 859 Will 860
 LORD NAAS  said, he thought that the only points in the late occurrence as to which inquiry was asked were admitted by both parties; namely, that Mr. M'Crossan acted on the grand jury in the court in which he was also practising, and that the sub-sheriff, not content with the Crown list, added twenty-nine names to the list on his own responsibility. These gentlemen, having admitted that they had done wrong, defended themselves by making a cross charge as to the grand jury of the county of Tyrone for some years past. He thought that the House ought to be satisfied with the assurance of the Government, that such an occurrence as that complained of was not likely to occur again.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he wished to draw attention to a very extraordinary provision in the Bill. The 15th clause gave power to every police inspector to search anybody's house in the neighbourhood of any of the dockyards. That was a provision that ought to be modified, as he thought the ordinary power of a search-warrant was sufficient. He should therefore move the omission of the clause.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he was surprised that so useful a measure should be impeded by the right hon. Gentleman on a mere technical objection.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, the proposal was not to give power to search the house of any one—it was only to search the houses of persons actually employed in the dockyards and of marine store dealers. He would, however, omit the clause.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, he had not the slightest objection to an inquiry into the particular case, but he thought it absurd to go back for fifteen years.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  rose to call attention to the return, No. 232, entitled, "Tyrone Assizes (Jury Panel)," and also to the constitution of the Grand Jury panel at the late assizes at Omagh, and to inquire whether any steps had been taken by the Government to prevent the repetition of such conduct as occurred on that occasion. The noble Lord said that the subject was not merely of local importance as might appear from the notice he had given, but was of general interest, and involved no less important a question than this—whether Her Majesty's subjects in Ireland were entitled to trial by jury as by
 847 848 849 "The sheriff did make up a jury list, and it was stated that the question of motive was a matter entirely in his own breast, and that it was impossible to produce evidence as to that. He could not see the impossibility, as it was nothing new for jurors to be called to determine motives which they can only know by evidence of the acts. It was only by the acts that they could arrive at the motives which prompted those acts. If, in the present case, evidence should be produced, it was not for him to say, but it appeared to him that he would, in the language of an eminent judge, 'be making the jury panel a mockery and a snare,' if he allowed a prisoner to be put on his trial by a jury packed in such a way as the present one." 850 851
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  suggested the withdrawal of the clause, in order that another might be framed narrowing the restriction.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, on what grounds the French commenced to blockade the Mexican coast on May 1st; and whether the French Government did not notify this blockade until June 5th; and why Her Majesty's Government did not give notice of the Blockade until June 17th. He also wished to know what time would be allowed to vessels now on the voyage out, or at present loading in England, to enter the Mexican ports?
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he wished to know whether the blockade did not commence on the 1st of May.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that the Government first sold their stores with their marks upon them and then claimed the right to follow them all over the world. He hoped that would be provided against in the other House of Parliament.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he understood that before a blockade could be properly established official notification must be given to the countries affected by it.
 MR. LAYARD  said, the noble Lord was in error in supposing that the French Government had notified the blockade on the 5th of May. The notice which appeared in the  Moniteur Gazette
 MR. LAYARD  stated in reply, that the Government had received information that the Turkish fortress at Belgrade had bombarded the Servian portion of the town. He understood that the Servians had offered considerable provocation to the Turks. Two or three of the latter had been murdered, and on the 16th the Servians, by a surprise, took possession of two of the gates of the Turkish quarter. On the 17th, some shots having been fired at the fortress, the Turkish garrison was led to believe that an attack was going to be made upon them, and opened a bombardment on a part of the town. The
 807
 MR. LAYARD  said, that the murderer of Dr. MacCarthy was brought to trial on the 10th of March and sentenced to ten years' confinement, and to pay an indemnity to the family of the deceased. Upon the subject of the trial our Consul wrote, after giving some details—
 "I have to add that the case was most carefully got up. The examinations were conducted with great regularity, and it was evident that the proceedings were watched with interest by members of the Bench and the Bar who were not conducting the case. The other business of the Court was made to give way, and, as regards the expedition with which the case was carried through, it ought to be remembered that two months only elapsed from the commission of the offence to the punishment of the offender. No authorities could have acted with greater consideration, firmness, and efficiency than had the Italian authorities."
 MR. LAYARD  observed that the hon. Gentleman had placed a notice of Motion on the paper for an Address for copies of correspondence relating to M. Zenos and his newspaper, and he (Mr. Layard) had come down to the House under the impression that the hon. Gentleman would confine himself to that subject. Instead, however, of that being so, the hon. Gentleman had gone over the whole Turkish question, and he must add that he had himself been treated with little courtesy by the hon. Gentleman, who had made a personal attack on him of a serious nature. Of that attack he had had no notice whatever; and therefore he had come down to the House unprepared to meet it, but he would do his best to discuss the matter with all the temper and discretion he could command, though labouring under great provocation. Before going into the question of Turkish finance, he would explain to the House the position in which the Government were placed as regarded M. Zenos and his newspaper. The Turkish Government, with a liberality unknown in any other country, permitted the English Embassy to have a post-office at Constantinople, through which letters were distributed to British subjects and others, without any interference whatever. Up to that day there had never been any complaint on
 824 825 British Star 826
 MR. LAYARD : If, of course, Sir, I have used words which are unparliamentary, I
 827
 MR. LAYARD  said, he had been often in Turkey, and had never heard of any such restriction, and he knew that foreigners were working mines in Thessaly and in other parts of that empire. Then the hon. Gentleman said that Christians could not hold land in Turkey. That statement was utterly at variance with the fact, because half the subjects of the Sultan were Christians, and they held laud as well as the other subjects of the Sultan. It was true that foreigners could not hold laud in Turkey. The hon. Member was surprised that such a state of things should be possible, and asked whether it would be tolerated in England? Why in England by the law no foreigner could hold land. Then the hon. Gentleman taunted the Turkish Government with such charges as taxed the credulity of the House, for he said that any woman might hold land in Turkey because she might be taken possession of for certain purposes. When such a statement was made, he hardly knew how to answer it, except by saying that the person upon whose authority the hon. Gentleman spoke had wilfully and designedly misinformed and cajoled him. The Turkish Government very liberally allowed foreigners to hold land by permitting them to avail themselves of a fiction of the Mohammedan law, and to have the deeds made out in the name of any woman in Turkey, all women by a legal fiction being considered subjects of the Sultan, and a large amount of Catholic and other church property in the East belonging to foreign institutions was actually held and registered in the name of the Virgin Mary. A large number also of English, French, and other foreign subjects, held laud in Turkey merely by having it registered in the names of ladies who were not even Turkish subjects, and
 833 834
 MR. LAYARD  said, that after the statement of the hon. Gentleman he would be happy to bow to the decision of the House, and withdraw any expression which might be considered unparliamentary. He was satisfied, at the same time, that the House would not expect him to make any explanation as to the charge which the hon. Gentleman had, if not made, at least insinuated, against him. He would therefore pass over that subject. As to M. Zenos, who seemed to think that he (Mr. Layard) was actuated by a feeling against him in consequence of any articles that he might have written in his newspaper, all he could say was that he did not believe he had ever seen a copy of the journal in question. He had certainly never read one of its articles. Nor was he aware that the House would wish him to follow the hon. Gentleman into a long discussion upon Turkish finance; but, at any rate, he might be permitted to say a few words upon one or two points which somewhat affected his personal character. The hon. Gentleman had charged him with making a statement not founded in fact when he informed the House that the Turkish debt amounted to only £14,000,000. He had already, in reply to the hon. Member for Devizes (Mr. D. Griffith), reminded the House, that when he said the debt of Turkey did not exceed £14,000,000, he distinctly stated that he referred exclusively to the foreign debt. [A gesture of dissent from Mr. DARBY GRIFFITH.] The hon. Gentleman shook his head, but he would read from  Hansard "That the foreign debt of Turkey amounted to £14,000,000, and that the whole of the interest on her foreign and domestic debt was only one-eighth of her revenue." 830 831 832
 MR. DISRAELI : I understand there is a question as to whether the words should be taken down. Certainly, if the hon. Gentleman had simply used the phrase "from such a quarter," his language would have been Parliamentary. In using, as he did, the words "such a man," he must, I think, have spoken inadvertently in the hurry of debate, and I am the more inclined to that opinion because in his previous observations he referred in the most courteous terms to the hon. Member for Dungarvan, for he distinctly called him three times his "hon. Friend." Indeed, so much struck was I by the remarkable courtesy thus exhibited by him, notwithstanding the peculiar expressions used by the hon. Member for Dungarvan with respect to his relations in connection with the Turkish Loan, that it was a matter of observation on the part of my hon. Friends by me and myself that Parliamentary courtesy had never in all probability been strained to such a degree before. I looked upon the hon. Gentleman, in short, as setting all of us a very good example. But now, as this painful misconception has arisen, I think the House will be of opinion that
 828
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he thought the hon. and learned Member for Wexford was right in asking for an inquiry, but the House ought to be careful not to interfere with judicial proceedings. The proposed inquiry would be too wide, and defeat its own object, as it would go over a space of seventeen years. The House should not interfere with the administration of justice, but he hoped the Government would prevent a recurrence of the circumstances which had been so properly reprobated by the judges.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he had received no official information upon any of the points to which the hon. Member had directed attention. He had reason to believe that there had been some failure in the opium crop, but it by no means followed that there would be a loss of Revenue, because the sale of a smaller quantity at a higher price might produce as good a Revenue as that of a larger quantity at a lower rate.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether accounts have been received that the Turkish Fortress at Belgrade have bombarded the Servian portion of that town? Whether Baron Hubner has offered, at Constantinople, the assistance of Austrian Troops to co-operate with the Porte, either in Bosnia, Servia, or elsewhere; and whether any such intervention by one of the Great Powers, independently of the others, is compatible with the existing Treaties?
 LORD FERMOY  explained, that the object of granting proxies was to give to landlords votes for elections to seats at boards of guardians; not to give the power of interfering with the transaction of any business before the board.
 LORD FERMOY  said, he disliked proxies altogether; but if they were to be retained, it was desirable that they should he frequently renewed. Therefore he should support the proposed restriction.
 MR. MACEVOY  seconded the Motion.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, that if the Government were to adopt the suggestion that had just been made, they would expose themselves to severe criticism, and would be trifling with the Turkish Government. The address of the hon. Member for Dungarvan did certainly appeal to his sympathies, but further consideration had altered his first impression of the case. He did not think that M. Zenos had been treated with too much curtness, but the reverse. All the arguments raised had been derived from the departure from that official curtness, which was really, after all, most merciful and most useful in such correspondence. If the hon. Gentleman had not given reasons, if he had not stated that the reason for the circulation of the paper
 845
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  said, he should support the clause. Indeed, he thought
 805
 MR. BUTT  said, the objection to five years was that it opened the door to fraud. Proxies might be held at a time when the person who had given them had lost his properly.
 MR. M'CANN  said, he had a high respect for the High Sheriff of Tyrone, and believed him to be incapable of doing or conniving at any improper act; but as
 855
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that the question of the registration of marriages was intimately connected with that of births and deaths, and the principle involved was too important to be discussed at a morning sitting.
 MR. BLAKE  suggested that the landlords should pay the rate on buildings used
 801
 MR. BLAKE  said, he wished to move additional words, providing that all persons exercising the privilege of voting by proxy should each time previous to availing themselves of it make a solemn declaration that they still held unchanged the franchise on which it was founded.
 MR. BLAKE  said, he would move an Amendment, of which he had given notice, that the number of proxies to be held by the same person should be limited to five.
 MR. BLAKE  said, he would withdraw his Motion.
 MR. BRIGHT : I am very sorry that this question has become a matter of contest between the partisans of the Turks and the partisans of the Pope. Whatever I may think of the wisdom of an attack on Turkey, I cannot consider that these incessant attacks on the Pope from the Treasury Bench are either very judicious or very statesmanlike. There are six millions of Roman Catholics in the United Kingdom, and I find constantly that there is nothing which comes from the Treasury Bench so likely to obtain a cheer in certain quarters in this House as an attack upon anything connected with Rome, with the Pope, or the Catholic Church. I shall not be suspected of being a partisan of the Pope, or of the Catholic Church; but I say so much on behalf of the harmony and good feeling which I wish to preserve among all classes of the people of this kingdom. Now, notwithstanding that so much has been said with regard to Turkey, which has rather covered and concealed the case which was originally brought before the House, I still think there is a case which it is worth while to attend to for a few minutes longer. This M. Zenos, of whom the hon. Gentleman speaks with so much contempt, is a gentleman who has lived many—I think fourteen years or more in this country as a merchant of great respectability, He is
 835 3d Illustrated London News 836 British Star 837 838 839
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member has withdrawn it.
 MR. SPEAKER : I am sure that the hon. and gallant Gentleman will see on a moment's reflection that he has used words which ought to be withdrawn.
 MR. SPEAKER : The words used were "entirely false and without foundation;" they ought to be withdrawn.
 MR. SPEAKER : I must repeat that the hon. and gallant Gentleman has not expressed himself in proper language.
 MR. SPEAKER : The words which the hon. Gentleman wishes to be taken down must be exactly those which fell from the hon. Member for Southwark.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Member could not withdraw the Motion without the consent of the House.
 MR. GEORGE  said, he objected to come down to a morning sitting to discuss a Bill which there was no serious intention of passing.
 MR. GEORGE  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. M'Mahon) had most ingeniously attempted to mix up with the case before the House various other matters entirely disconnected with it, which had occurred from 1845 up to the present time, and had dragged in references to Orangemen and Ribandmen which were beside the question. The point to be considered was whether in that particular instance certain judicial officers had or had not violated the laws of their country. Something further ought to be done on the part of the Government than merely to express a hope that such a maladministration of justice as had been proved should not take place in the future. The majesty of justice ought to be reasserted. It was the duty of the executive Government to see that high sheriffs performed the functions of their high office as they were legally bound to do. He did not think that the reply given that night by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland would prove satisfactory to the people of Ireland.
 MR. GEORGE  vindicated the system of landlords voting by proxy, and contended that the clause as it stood, with the larger number of proxies to be in existence for five years, was preferable to the proposed restriction.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the murderer of Dr. MacCarthy at Pisa has been brought to justice; and, if so, with what result; and whether Her Majesty's Government will lay upon the table of the House the Correspondence and Papers on the subject?
 MR. HENNESSY  suggested that the object would be attained by the hon. and learned Member for Wexford striking out the first part of his Resolution.
 MR. MAGUIRE : I appear, Sir, not only on behalf of a British, subject who has been wronged in his property, but in vindication of a principle which every man in this House holds dear. It has been proclaimed over and over from the Treasury Bench that England is not alone the home of liberty, but the propagandist of freedom. The case to which I am about
 811 British Star British Star 812 Times Saturday Review British Star British Star Laughter 813 British Star "My paper has been very often in opposition to the Government of King Otho, and has pointed out, from time to time, the abuses that exist in the administration of affairs in Greece. It is this opposition, I fear, my Lord, that has caused the Government of the Sultan to apply to that of England, to prevent the circulation of my paper in Turkey. For, a short time since, M. Barotsi, dragoman of the Greek Legation in Constantinople, meeting my father, who is my agent in that capital, told him, that as I persisted in my opposition to the Government of King Otho, he, Barotsi, would use all his influence with the Minister of Foreign Affairs in Turkey, to get him to suppress the circulation of the  British Star "Should your Lordship, after what I have stated, still feel not justified in removing the prohibition placed on my paper, I beg to propose, that my paper being divided into two sections—one literary and scientific, and the other political, the former be permitted to pass through the British post-office, pending the settlement of this question. I have been at very considerable expense in preparing woodcuts illustrative of the International Exhibition. All this expenditure will be in a great measure thrown away if I be prevented sending my paper to Turkey, and the Greek population of that country will also be deprived of any knowledge of this great exhibition of international industry; and as the  British Star "I am directed by Earl Russell to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 8th inst., in which, after adverting to the fact that the British Postmaster at Constantinople has been ordered not to distribute a paper called the  British Star 814 "I am directed by Earl Russell to state to you, in reply to your letter of the 13th inst., that the political character of the newspaper called the  British Star British Star 815 816 British Star employés 817 "The Minister, however, who was appointed to take charge of this department, since our arrival here had commenced the introduction of a superior system of accounts, and by his reforms had, in the few months of his administration, greatly improved the financial position of this department. We heard, therefore, with regret that this intelligent officer had been dismissed." "The amount of 'verghi' payable by each person is decided annually by the authorities of the town or village to which he belongs. The distribution, which is ostensibly based upon the relative wealth of each member of the community, has hitherto been made in the rudest, most informal, mid most arbitrary manner. The consequence has been that all kinds of unfairness, favouritism, and unjust exaction, have prevailed in the assessment of the impost, and that the wealthier classes have usually escaped with a very light application, or with no application at all, of the tax, which therefore falls with additional weight upon the poorer portion of the community." 818 819 The Times 820 821 "Diary in Turkish Waters 822 British Star
 MR. MAGUIRE : Then I withdraw "gross misconduct."
 MR. MAGUIRE : I quoted from the Report that the Franks were not allowed to work mines.
 MR. MAGUIRE : I would wish to observe, Sir—["Order, order !"]
 MR. MAGUIRE : I shall be glad at any time to settle with the Under Secretary any personal matter which may arise between us. My object, however, in rising now is to make an explanation, for I think there should be no misconception as to the real meaning of what I did say.
 829
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, that he would accept the papers which had been offered to him by the hon. Under Secretary of State.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he would move to insert the words "for fraud, embezzlement, or any criminal offence" after the word "dismissed," so that only grave misconduct should incapacitate a person from serving on the board.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he wished to make a practical suggestion. His hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General said, there were only two courses open to the Government. One was to accede to the request of the Turkish Government; the other, was not to accede to it, and to forego the privilege granted by the Porte. But there was another course. The Government might have said to the Turkish Government, "M. Zenos does not intend hereafter to introduce any political matter into the paper. Has the Turkish Government any objection to the circulation of such a publication?" Courtesy in office was a very great thing, and he would ask the hon. Under Secretary to turn his attention to it. A little regard for men's feelings and a little less curtness would smooth many difficulties and overcome many obstructions. He believed, that if the hon. Member would apply himself to the art, and apply some of the powers of his mind to teaching it to the Turkish Government, there would be real advantage from the circulation of a paper which simply contained instruction for the inhabitants. It would be doing good to the people of Turkey; it would do no harm to England, and it would certainly do no harm to the hon. Gentleman himself.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken thought the inquiry would be too wide. In that he was right. But he was entirely wrong in supposing that an inquiry into the administration of justice was not within the functions of that House. If any question arose with respect to any of the judges, he was removable upon an Address by that House and the other House of Parliament. In that case the conduct of the high sheriff was called in question. Now, the high sheriff really represented the Executive, and the only body that was supposed by its functions to have the power of keeping the Executive in check was that House. He would therefore suggest to his hon. and learned Friend not to withdraw, but narrow his Motion.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether, having fixed the Trade Marks Bill for Monday next, he will be prepared to state the day when the Government will bring it on?
 MR. ROEBUCK : Will it come on next week?
 MR. VANCE  said, he should support the clause as it stood.
 MR. VANCE  expressed his concurrence in the Amendment. A Select Committee on the subject of trading had recommended that charities and buildings used for scientific purposes should not be taxed.
 MR. WALDRON  said, he should support the clause. He knew a case in which a paid officer, who had been dismissed for misconduct, took his seat next week as a member of the board of guardians, which refused to act with him.
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL  said, with regard to the question which had been brought under the notice of the House by the noble Lord, it was deserving of the attention of the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary for Ireland, and he trusted he would give the matter a serious consideration.
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman admitted the fact that he knew nothing whatever about the county of Tyrone, and his statement with respect to it might be taken for what it was worth. With regard to his attack upon the Orangemen, it was both unnecessary and uncalled for, and he (Captain Archdall) repeated what he had stated, while the hon. and learned Gentleman was speaking—namely, that the statement was entirely false and without foundation.
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL : Then, Sir, I withdraw the words I used, but what I meant to say was that the statement of the hon. and learned Member is entirely contrary to the fact.
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL : But what the hon. and learned Member has said with respect to the Orange Society is false.
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL : I bow, Sir, to your decision; but I belong to the Orange Society, and I cannot allow it to be put on a par with the Riband Society without giving it the most distinct contradiction.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he thought the noble Lord and the hon. Member who had brought the subject before the House, had failed in their duty in not concluding with a Motion for the prosecution of the sheriff, sub-sheriff, and Mr. M'Crossan, for a conspiracy to pervert the course of justice. It was quite clear that the charges which had been made, if there was a particle of truth in them, ought to be investigated either in that House, or in a court of justice; and as the previous speakers had omitted to wind up their speeches with a Motion for Inquiry, he would supply that omission; for the sheriff, the sub-sheriff, and Mr. M'Crossan all desired that a most searching investigation should be made. Mr. M'Crossan had written to him, said that it was simply untrue, that he acted professionally in the Crown Court; he was a grand juror, no doubt, but he was engaged in the Civil Court. Therefore that charge fell to the ground. For the first time since 1688 a Liberal sheriff had been appointed for the county of Tyrone, where it had been the custom to pack the juries most outrageously. He was informed that a large majority of the people in the county of Tyrone were Catholics, and that the jury list, if fairly completed, would exhibit the proportion of three Catholics to one Protestant. Yet the jury list had been so packed, that out of 160 names, but one was the name of a Catholic. With respect to the twenty-eight names now complained of, seventeen were the names of Catholics, and eleven the names of Protestants. The several persons put in the list were people of great respectability, and qualified to act as grand jurors. Mr. M'Crossan said that the Orange faction were irritated at that alteration, because they had hitherto relied on the jury list for immunity for their "rowdyism," for it was the dregs of the community who were Orangemen. The Orange Society was a sort of Riband, illegal, and indictable society. He regretted that an hon. Member should so far lose his temper as to turn round and tell
 853
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he was willing to withdraw his Motion if he might be allowed to substitute one restricting the inquiry to the case in point.
 MR. M'MAHON  observed that a reference to the statutes showed that the landlord of a public establishment was liable to poor rate in respect of the rent he received for it.
 MR. O'BRIEN  said, he rose to order. The hon. and gallant Gentleman had applied the epithet "false" to the hon. Member (Mr. M'Mahon). He (Mr.O'Brien) believed it was not Parliamentary on the part of any hon. Member to use a phrase of that kind.
 MR. O'BRIEN  bore testimony to the great liberality of the Turkish Government during the Irish famine, and said, that they had set an example in this respect which many Christian Governments might have imitated.
 MR. P. A. TAYLOR  said, that the Government might have maintained their position in a technical and diplomatic point of view, but they had not, in dealing with the matter, upheld as they should have done the traditions of England, in reference to the freedom of the press in a country where they were supposed to exercise a very prominent influence. The very existence of an English post-office in a country which knew nothing of freedom, was in itself an anomaly, and likely to place them in a position of great difficulty. The Government, however, as the hon. Member for Birmingham had remarked, seemed to rush and jump at the opportunity of
 846
 MR. MORE O'FERRALL  said, a proxy was given to the landlord for the purpose of protecting his property. Now, it might frequently happen that a proxy might get into bad hands. It was advisable, therefore, that frequent opportunity should he given to the landlord for revising his proxy, and on that ground he should vote for the Amendment.
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, he thought that the checks against fraud were so effectual that the limitation to two years would be injurious to the rights of property, without in the slightest degree affording any additional protection against fraud.
 MR. TORRENS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether there is any truth in the statements which have been published in various Newspapers, of a deficiency in the yield of Opium for the season; and if so, whether it is likely that any loss will ensue in the Revenue in India; and whether any representation of grievances has been made to the local Government by Ryots in different Zillahs in Bengal, who receive advances from the Government there, to enable them to cultivate the Poppy plant; if so, will he describe generally what are the grievances complained of, and whether the Governor General or the Lieutenant Governor has appointed a Commission to inquire into them?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : I will say on Monday.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he hoped to be able to fix a day on Monday,
 MR. SCULLY : Sir, I rise to order. I beg to move that the words just used by the hon. Gentleman be taken down. I submit it is unparliamentary to apply such words to any Member of this House, I do do not care who he is. Indeed, the hon. Member to whom they are applied in the present instance, so far from being a friend of mine, has always shown himself to be my personal enemy. But, be that as it may, the words "such a charge coming from such a man" are clearly unparliamentary, and I therefore beg to move that they be taken down by the clerk at the table.
 MR. SCULLY : I cannot be expected to vouch for the exact words, but I understood the hon. Gentleman to use these words:—" I cannot be expected to answer such a charge coming from such a man."I move that they be taken down, but I was in hopes that the hon. Gentleman would explain.
 MR. SCULLY  said, he would recommend that the words should run, "any person who should have been dismissed for any criminal offence." These words would enable the question of criminality to be raised in a court of justice, if a man were dismissed by the Commissioners on any such alleged ground. It would be "gross misconduct" in that House to consent to brand a man, whose only offence might be difference of opinion with the guardians or Poor Law Commissioners.
 MR. SCULLY  said, he thought that M. Zenos had a strong case upon high constitutional grounds, but the Attorney General had argued it on the lowest legal grounds. He (Mr. Scully) had moved that certain words used by the hon. Member (Mr. Layard) be taken down. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli), however, had reminded him that the Under Secretary (Mr. Layard) had used the words "hon. Friend" in speaking of the hon. Member for Dungarvan, and that was followed by the Under Secretary's explanation that by the word "man" he really meant "quarter." He confessed that he was surprised at such an expression coming from the Under Secretary. However, after the explanation made by the Under Secretary, who had cried "quarter," he (Mr. Scully) had no objection to grant quarter, by withdrawing his Motion. The real question before the House had been widely departed from in the course of debate, and it had nothing to do with the Ottoman Bank or with the state of Turkey. For the first quarter of an hour the hon. Member (Mr. Maguire) had got on very
 843 The Times Illustrated London News 844
 MR. SCULLY  observed that the only question for consideration was whether Mr. John M'Crossan, while acting as a grand juror, was also acting as attorney to the prisoner, and to that a most distinct denial had been given. Those who made the accusation were bound therefore in vindication of their own characters, to prove its truth.
 MR. SCULLY  proposed that the clause should be rejected, and that another well-considered clause should be brought forward on the report.
 MR. SCULLY  said, he would move the omission of the word "five" in order to insert "two," his object being to limit the time during which a person should be entitled to hold a proxy for the election of a guardian to two years instead of five. Such was the law of England, and he could see no reason why a different law should be made to apply to Ireland.
 MR. COGAN  said, he should support the Amendment. The Chief Commissioner of the Poor Laws in Ireland had stated before a Committee which sat last year to inquire into the Poor Laws, that in many instances proxies were held and votes given in respect of property which no longer belonged to the person who gave the proxy. It was therefore desirable to limit the time during which a proxy should be held.
 MR. COGAN  said, he wished to move the omission of certain words which would prevent the election to a seat at the board of any officer who had been dismissed by the Commissioners within five years previously. He thought it monstrous that it should be in the power of the Commissioners to brand a man so far as to disqualify him from being re-elected by the votes of his fellow-ratepayers. It by no means followed as a matter of course that the decision of the Commissioners must be in all cases right.
 MR. COGAN  said, that in reference to the denial of the hon. Baronet (Sir E. Grogan) that 1,000 proxies had been held by one individual, it appeared from the evidence taken before a Committee last year that an Assistant Poor Law Commissioner stated that he had known 1,000 votes given by one agent.
 MR. CONINGHAM  remarked that he thought a case for inquiry was established.
 MR. GORE LANGTON  said, in the absence of his hon. Colleague (Mr. Berkeley), he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, The reason why the Returns respecting the Armstrong guns, moved for on the 7th day of March and withdrawn, and renewed on the 18th day of March with the concurrence of the Secretary of State for War, have not been laid upon the table at this late period of the Session?
 MR. W. S. LINDSAY  said, that it had been his intention to have submitted to the House that evening a Resolution the object of which would have been the recognition of the Southern States of America; but many hon. Members whom he had consulted, and whose opinions he was bound to respect, had recommended that he should postpone the Motion. In deference to their opinions he proposed to postpone it until the 11th of July. Before that time he trusted that Her Majesty's Government would see the necessity of taking in hand a question so grave and important, and one which properly belonged to the Executive, and would thus render it unnecessary for any private Member to submit to the consideration of the House the desirability of recognising the Southern States, because it must be apparent to all men that before long those States must become an independent nation.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he advocated the stricter limitation. Railway proxies could only be given for a particular occasion.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he had no objection to that course, but he should Vote against the clause.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, he should move the omission of the clause, there being a strong feeling against taxing institutions established for charitable purposes, and he hoped the right hon. Baronet would give way on that point.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, he was opposed to the omission of the clause. By passing the clause, as amended, they would exempt all property which was entitled to be exempted from the payment of rates, and would leave all other property rateable. The clause would not interfere with tenement valuation. It would exempt places of worship and schools from taxation; but not convents, and buildings of that character.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, he wished to move the insertion after the word "purpose," of the words "except churches and chapels used exclusively for religious worship and open to the public, graveyards where no charge is made for interments, school-rooms used for the gratuitous education of children, court-houses, gaols, and bridewells." He thought, that whilst the intention of the clause was that property of all other kinds should be subject to the payment of poor rates, all descriptions of property which were used for public or religious purposes ought to be excluded from the necessity of contributing to such payment.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, he should support the clause, which rendered it necessary to renew proxies once in five years, and preserved power in the landlords to revoke them at any time.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, he objected to any limitation. Supposing that he had given his own proxies to an agent, was that a reason why the agent should not hold the proxies of other landholders? He denied that any gentleman in Dublin ever held 1,000 proxies. Proxies were held by agents  pro hac vice
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, he would move an Amendment to omit the words "within five years previously." If an officer had been dismissed for misconduct, he ought not to be eligible to sit upon the board by which he had been dismissed.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, there had been a dear miscarriage of justice.
 861
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he should contend that no sufficient case had been made for a Committee of Inquiry. It appeared that Mr. M'Crossan did not act as a grand juryman in any of the bills in which he was interested; and though he was far from saying that it was right for a gentleman to be on the grand jury and to practise in one and the same court, he thought that the judge was the proper person to decide, and to punish in such a case.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he must object to the words "gross misconduct." The phrase was not a legal one.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the objection to retain the clause was, that it did not properly find its place in a Bill for the relief of the poor, and he thought, therefore, it would be desirable to omit the clause from the Bill. Besides, its object was already provided for by an existing law, which said that buildings used for charitable purposes, science, literature, and the fine arts should be exempted from rating.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he observed that several hon. Members had Amendments on the paper to move the omission of the clause altogether. He would suggest, therefore, with a view to save time, that the House should agree to the Amendment, and then discuss the question as to whether the clause should stand part of the Bill.
 SIR ROBERT CLIFTON  said, he thought the hon. Member for Dungarvan would have done well if he had translated the article which had been the cause of the difficulty, and the House would then have been able to judge whether it was of such an inflammatory character as to justify the Government in slopping the circulation of the paper in the Turkish dominions. He must confess that after the promise of M. Zenos that the paper thenceforth should contain no political matter, he did not see why his first offence should not have been pardoned. The hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary of State also might have laid the objectionable article before the House to enable them to form a correct opinion upon the matter. He thought also that the hon. Member for Dungarvan had been very much misinformed as to what had taken place in Turkey since the accession of the present Sultan. It was well known that the Sultan was doing everything in his power to extend trade and commerce, by granting concessions for new lines of railway, and by improving the harbours in his dominions. It was not, however, to be expected that a Government which at one time had nearly fallen to the ground could move as fast as the hon. Member for Dungarvan, or as fast as he might wish. From his own experience he could bear testimony to the great abilities and extended knowledge of Achmet Effendi, who had earnestly devoted himself to the interests of his country.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he could not but regret that the noble Lord had thought it necessary again to agitate the matter, because he himself had admitted that it had already given rise to a great deal of party feeling. The noble Lord had made use of extremely strong language, for he had stated that the high sheriff and sub-sheriff of the county Tyrone had been tampering with trial by jury. [ Cries of 856 857 858
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  staled that he proposed to ask the House to go into Committee on the Bill at another morning sitting on the following Friday, after the Poor Relief Bill had been gone through.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he concurred with the noble Lord in thinking that a great deal of property was improperly exempt from poor rates. It would be, however, better to deal with these exemptions by a Tenement Valuation Bill, and he therefore thought it would be judicious to expunge the clause.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, the subject had been well considered in the Select Committee, the members of which thought assimilation undesirable; and he trusted that the clause would be retained unaltered.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, the question was one of importance, inasmuch as in Dublin there was the case of one person holding 2,000 proxies, and of another holding more than 1,000; whilst in England no one was at liberty to hold more than four. He saw no reason for departing from the Resolution of the Committee, which fixed the number of proxies at ten. In selecting ten as the  maximum
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he must decline to withdraw the clause, which was analogous to one in the English law.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he could not set his opinion against that of the Committee, and he felt bound to say that the number "ten" had been adopted after careful consideration by the Government.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, it was impossible for the Government to entertain the proposition. A solemn declaration meant a declaration before a magistrate.
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE  said, that as a landlord, he would prefer giving his proxies for the shorter period, since it would be a very disagreeable step to take to recall a proxy.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I may he allowed to say that I think both hon. Gentlemen have, perhaps, somewhat overstepped those limits within which, on cooler reflection, they would, I am sure, admit it is desirable to keep. In the first place, the hon. Gentleman the Member for Dungarvan used very offensive, I may almost say unparliamentary and unbecoming language, as between gentleman and gentleman, in accusing my hon. Friend near me of being influenced in his Parliamentary conduct by private motives. That was a charge which everybody must feel that one Member ought not to have launched against another. It was an accusation which no gentleman, conscious of its injustice, could hear made against him with the calmest temper in the world, and I am not surprised that my hon. Friend should have replied to it in words somewhat overstepping the usual courtesy of debate. The House will recollect, moreover, that the hon. Member for Dungarvan laid himself open in a peculiar manner to such a retort from my hon. Friend, because he said in the course of his speech that he did not make the statement he was addressing to the House upon his own knowledge or authority, but upon information derived from somebody else. I must say, that if an attack should be made upon my private character by a man who says that he does not speak from his own knowledge, but from the instructions of another person, I should hesitate before condescending to answer "such a charge coming from such a man." My hon. Friend, I am sure, will not insist upon words which may be considered unparliamentary, but will at once submit to the decision of the House and withdraw them.
 MR. COWPER  said, it was the practice of the Department to restore the old seats when necessary, and to provide new ones
 869
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he was not yet in possession of the information requisite to enable him to answer the Question, and would therefore request the right hon. Gentleman to repeat it on a future occasion.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : Mr. Massey, Sir, in rising to bring before the Committee the Resolution of which I have given notice, I shall probably find it necessary to advert, I trust briefly, to some topics not strictly contained within the limits of that Resolution. The subject of fortifications is a part of the more general subject, the defences of the country. It is the characteristic of our naval and military system, unlike that of many other countries, that it exists exclusively for defensive purposes—a fact which I think hon. Gentlemen sometimes overlook, and which has been overlooked in some recent discussions on this question. The essence of defence is purely negative; it is intended merely to guard against invasion or attack. Defence is of the nature of an insurance, and insurance against a probable danger may be a prudent act, although subsequent experience shows that the precaution was, in fact, unnecessary. A person who insures his house or his ship is not condemned for folly, although his ship may not be wrecked and his house may not be burnt. That is true with regard to those species of insurance which are intended merely to mitigate an evil, but do not tend to prevent it.
 871 872 873 874 875 876 877 878 879 Merrimac Monitor 880 881
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : The object of this Resolution is to serve for a foundation to a Bill for continuing the Act which is now existing. The words "central arsenal" occur in the title of that Act, and therefore it is necessary to keep them in the title of the Bill I propose to bring in. But when I come to lay the Bill on the table of the House, my hon. Friend will see that I take no money for the central arsenal.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : Nothing this year.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : Perhaps I
 896
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : I regret, Sir, it will be my duty to trouble the Committee for a short time in consequence of observations made by my hon. Friend. I think he hardly exercised any great forbearance in the remarks which he addressed to the Committee in the early part of his speech; for, having prepared himself at great length on the subject of the Spithead forts—[Mr. BERNAL OSBORNE: Hear, hear!]—and having marked a great number of passages in the Report of the Commissioners, he thought it necessary to go into a subject
 908 909 "That considering the changes in progress affecting the science of Attack and Defence, it is not expedient to proceed with the forts at Spit-head, or additional Defences at Portsmouth, Plymouth, and Dover." 910 911 "The garrisons of fortified places ought to be drawn from the population, and not from the active army; provincial regiments of militia were intended for this service; it is the noblest prerogative of the national guard. In times of great misfortunes and adversity, States are often destitute of soldiers, but they are never without men for their internal defence. 50,000 national guards and 2,000 or 3,000 cannoneers will defend a fortified capital against an army of 300,000 men. These 50,000 men in the open field, if they are not complete soldiers and commanded by experienced officers, will be thrown into disorder by a charge of a few thousand cavalry." "It may not be out of place to indicate the mode by which the system of fortifications can be manned and served, without an augmentation, for that particular purpose, of the regular army. The force that should be employed for this service in time of war is the militia (using the term in a comprehensive sense), the probability being, that in most of the defended points on the seaboard, the uniform and volunteer companies will supply the garrisons needed. And it may be shown that it is a service to which militia are better adapted than any other. The militiaman has there to be taught merely the service of a single gun, than which nothing can be more simple; he must learn to use the rammer and the sponge, the handspike and the linstock, to load and to run to battery, to trail and to fire; these are all. Each of these operations is of the utmost simplicity, depending on individual action, and not on a concert, and they may all be taught in a very short time.
 912
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, as the right hon. Baronet had told them that the works at the forts at Spithead were not to be continued, it would be a useless waste of the time of the Committee to enter into much discussion with regard to them at present. He was glad to hear the announcement, and he believed the works would ultimately be given up for ever. The outlay upon them would be a useless and wasteful expenditure of public money, because the Report of the Royal Commissioners teemed with evidence showing that the forts could not prevent a ship passing them at night, and scarcely by day. The right hon. Baronet seemed to think that the hon. Member for Liskeard had said that fortifications were of no use; but he did not hear him make such an assertion. No one who well considered the subject could say this, because it was obvious to every person of common sense, that if a town were fortified, it became stronger against an enemy
 913 Achilles 914 915 916 Impregnable 917 tête du pont 918 in nubibus 919 920
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, he thoroughly agreed with the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for War when he remarked that it was first their duty to obtain the best information and then to act upon it. He did not deny that at one time there was a very absurd fear with respect to invasion, but the absence of all fear was still more absurd. The Government had taken measures to obtain the best advice; they had appointed a Commission composed of men of science and military experience, and when the report of that Commission was presented to the House, it was accepted after much discussion. On a division only some thirty-nine members could be found to vote against the plan recommended by the Commission, and when two other divisions were subsequently taken, the number of those opposed to it did not exceed forty. It would be no better than vacillation, therefore, if they were now to reject the plan at the bidding of those who, from the first, were opposed to it. Many hon. Members, perhaps, were not aware of the care taken by the Government in the preparation of
 921 922 923 point d'armée
 MR. DIGBY SEYMOUR  said, he wished to ask, as the forts at Spithead were not to be proceeded with, what proportion of the £1,200,000 would not be required? He entirely agreed with the observations of the hon. Member for Lis-
 924
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that in reply to the questions which had been put to him, he had to state first, that the plan of the Government had not been altered since he had given notice of the Resolution; and secondly, that the amount which would be taken for each harbour, including Portsmouth, would be found in a schedule to the Act; and the sum taken for the Spithead forts was included in that list.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, that having seconded the Amendment of his hon. Friend (Mr. Bernal Osborne), he should now call upon him not to press it.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : The Bill consists of twenty-two clauses, being a repetition of the former Act, and it also contains a schedule in which the different
 964
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he was surprised that no notice had been taken of so important a Bill by any hon. Member on either side of the House. He greatly rejoiced at the prospect of the treaty, inasmuch as it gave promise of more effectually accomplishing that object—namely, the freedom of the African race:—for which this country had made such great sacrifices. Deeply deploring as he did the civil war raging in the United States, it was a great consolation to find in this Bill a justification of the hopes of those who saw in this war the beginning of the freedom of the 4,000,000 of coloured people in those States. It was highly honourable to the American Government, in the midst of the pressure of war, and the aggravated complications of their present condition, to have proposed such a treaty. According to the testimony of the noble Lord who introduced the measure, the American Government, of their own ac-
 965
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, in the absence of his gallant relative (General Buckley), he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Why the Officers and Men of the Rifle Brigade who composed the Camel Corps in India, commanded by Colonel Ross during the late Mutiny (having received a medal and clasps for services with Sir Hugh Rose's force in Central India), have not received a share of Prize Money?
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Many hon. Gentlemen have said, that as the question of the Spithead forts is postponed, they will not enter into the merits of the question. In spite of the postponement, many hon. Gentlemen have gone very largely into that question; and although I am very much tempted to answer some of the arguments as to ships against forts, I will defer that to another time. I have been called upon to answer the statement of the hon. Member for Liskeard with regard to the account which I gave on a former occasion of the large gun of Sir William Armstrong. He challenged me early in the evening to answer that statement, and I did not do so at once, because, if I had denied it, I should have met with the same sort of remark which the hon. Gentleman gave to the noble Lord. When the noble Lord distinctly denied what the hon. Gentleman stated, the hon. Gentleman said the noble Lord had made an apology. I did not wish any one to suppose that I could make him an apology, and therefore I refrained from an immediate denial. But the hon. Gentleman has entirely misrepresented what I did say on that occasion. What I did say Tarn prepared to
 944 Warrior Warrior
 MR. DISRAELI : We have heard something to-night of the inconsistency and vacillation of the House of Commons. This House, like every popular assembly—and I trust the House of Commons will always be a popular assembly—must reflect, in a great degree, the feelings and convictions of the people of the country; and, no doubt, those feelings and those convictions, like all things human, are liable to change. But there is another body of men who might be expected to be superior to this mutability unfortunately incident to mankind—that body of men who are the responsible advisers of the Crown. One would think, from the gravity of their duties, from their position, from the care and pains they must take in inquiring into every subject that engages their attention, and for the right conduct of which they are responsible to their Sovereign, from the ample and accurate information they can acquire on all questions on which they are called to decide, that the responsible advisers of the Crown would be free from inconsistency and
 955 ad misericordiam 956 957 958 Trent 959 960 961 962
 COLONEL FRENCH  hoped his right hon. and learned Friend would not object to say when he proposed to go on with the Judgments (Ireland) Bill.
 MR. DOULTON  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether the Commissioners of Income Tax have authority, in cases of Appeal based upon a three years' statement of profits, to dismiss the Appeal without investigating such statement; and whether, in the event of such dismissal (the assessment being under £150 per annum), the Appellant has any remedy by application to the Commissioners of Inland Revenue, the Treasury, or other person or body?
 MR. BENTINCK  observed that the
 934 935
 MR. H. H. VIVIAN  said, his opinion was adverse to that view, which some persons considered to be economy, but which he thought a penny-wise and pound-foolish policy. He thought his hon. Friend the Member for Liskeard had been guilty of an omission in his entertaining speech—namely, that although he found great fault with the Government scheme, he proposed no plan of his own instead. If
 925 Trusty Warrior 926 Ironical cheers
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, there had been no opportunity of conferring with his right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Belfast, but he apprehended that the state of public business would render it impossible to press the measure this Session.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, it had been referred to a Select Committee.
 MR. BRIGHT : Then nothing will be done this year?
 MR. BRIGHT : I rise to ask a question. I did not understand what the right hon. Gentleman said with respect to the central arsenal, but I see that there are words referring to it in the Resolution. I
 882
 MR. BRIGHT : The proposal of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) appears reasonable enough if the facts be with him. But I understood the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for War to say that the Bill which he was about to introduce was merely a continuance Bill. If it be so, it may consist only of one clause, continuing the Act passed two years ago, and then we shall have very little opportunity of discussing any of those details. Now, I gathered from what the noble Lord said, that there would be an opportunity in Committee of discussing the points comprised in this Resolution. It may be, therefore, that the Secretary of State was wrong in the description which he gave of the Bill, and in that case, perhaps, he will be good enough to say so, and let us know, before we throw away the present opportunity, whether the Bill will be simply a continuance Bill, or one including in its clauses the different proposals to which it will refer.
 MR. VANCE  said, that several of his constituents were very much interested in knowing, Whether the Fairs and Markets (Ireland) Bill was to be proceeded with?
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Are they now in existence? No, they are not, and for this very good reason, that the whole plan and scope of the forts have been changed in the interim. It is impossible for the right hon. Gentleman or anybody else to give anything except an approximate estimate of what these forts will cost. We have that fact clearly stated in the evidence before us, as well as in the excellent analysis which everybody has read, which does my hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury so much credit, and which, moreover, has saved me so much trouble. What is the evidence of Mr. Hawkshaw, President of the Institution of Civil Engineers, a most able engineer, and a very careful man in giving an estimate? The Commissioners say in their Report—and this shows the reckless way in which we are proceeding—
 "As regards the probable expense of the proposed forts, we refer to the evidence of Mr. Hawkshaw, who states that he does not anticipate that the cost of the foundations will exceed the sum originally estimated." 897 "After I had inspected the plans, I called upon Lieutenant Colonel Jervis, the Secret r 898 "I pointed out to Lieutenant Colonel Jervis their utter inefficiency, and urged that they were absolutely indefensible even against ordinary gunboats, and I positively declined to have anything to do with them as originally planned." "I feel fully assured that the forts of Spithead, as originally designed by the Commissioners, as well as many of the fortifications now being constructed on various points of the coast, have been designed in utter and entire disregard of the power and accuracy of modern artillery, and are almost as likely to facilitate the destruction of their defenders as of any enemy that might act against them." 899 "The Committee consider that they would be shrinking from their duty if they did not bring forward their opinion as to the insufficiency of the present regular army, and they trust that it will be increased." 900 "My difficulty about occupying Portsdown Hill is the vast extent of the place. I cannot see what chance you would ever have of finding a garrison which would be equal to covering such an extent of defences. It is a beautiful position; but I think it would not be less than seven miles in extent. It must be defended, I think, by an army." "Do you not think we might always reckon on having a force of 20,000 men at Portsmouth?" "If I had 20,000 men, and were a general in command of Portsmouth, I would occupy Ports-down Hill, and throw up field-works, and hold it as long as I possibly could, and very likely with some success; but what I should be afraid of would be placing permanent works there, and not being able to occupy the position." "I would not make these fortifications—I do not see that it is necessary." "It would not only save a great deal of previous expense, but it would also come unexpectedly upon the enemy, who would know perfectly well how everything was previously established." 901 "On consideration of all the circumstances, we are of opinion that a work behind Plymouth Breakwater is necessary for the defence of the Sound; and that the site on which it is proposed to erect it is the best that could be selected." "Do you consider a fort on that site would be of considerable importance for the security of the Sound in time of war?" "With wooden ships I think it would be of the greatest importance; but in the case of iron ships it would depend upon the force of the shot, and the distance at which it would penetrate them." 902 The Times "If there were no works of defence or military establishments there (at Dover) already, it appears to your Commissioners that it would become a question whether that place should be fortified or not." "As regards Dover, it is quite true, that if there were no works and no harbour, it would be a question whether the mere topographical position of Dover would or would not lead you to con-
 903 904 "In time of peace you must, if you mean to retrench in good earnest, incur some risks … If you will have all our fortifications in every part of the world kept in a state of perfect repair, I venture to say that no amount of our annual revenue will suffice.… If you adopt the opinions of military men, naturally anxious for the complete security of every assailable point, naturally anxious to throw upon you the whole responsibility for the loss, in event of war suddenly breaking out, of some of our most valuable possessions, you would overwhelm this country with taxes in time of peace." "It is useless to blink the question that not merely within the circle of public departments, but throughout the country at large, and within the precincts of the House of Commons, among the guardians of the purse of the people, the spirit of public economy has been relaxed, charges on the public taxes have been submitted to from time to time with slight examination, and every man's petition or prayer for this or that expense has been conceded with a facility which I do not hesitate to say has only to continue some four or five years longer in order to bring the finances into absolute confusion." 905 "Greatly as I respect in general the courage, energy, and undoubted patriotism of the noble Lord, I accuse him of this—that his policy is marked and characterized by what I must call a spirit of interference… What is to be the result? That if in every country the name of England is to be the symbol and nucleus of a party, the name of France, Russia, or of Austria
 906 "When the noble Lord was in any difficulty he made no scruple of accepting the votes of the Conservative against the Liberal party… He believed that the cause of these foreign complications was to be traced to what the Member for Sheffield called the 'mischievous activity' of the noble Lord, who interfered in all parts of the known world. They were told the name of Lord Palmerston was a tower of strength; he doubted that." Trent Life and Opinions of Lord Grey "I would avoid most decidedly all those foolish tirades, which, however magnificently they sound,
 907
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : The right hon. Gentleman, in one portion of his speech, compared the establishment of defences for the country to a species of insurance. That is the trite and usual observation on these occasions, and the only dispute I should be inclined to have with the right hon. Gentleman is, not as to this being a matter of insurance, but as to what office we should insure in. If it can be proved that the Royal Marine insurance is better adapted for the wants of this country than the insurance-office which the right hon. Gentleman proposes to open on his own account, I think the Committee will agree that the former is the proper insurance for the House to put its money in. I must dissent from the opening observation in the right hon. Gentleman's speech, in which he laid down broadly that the meaning of the word "efficiency," translated into good Treasury English, meant nothing but increased expense. That, at least, is not my view of the translation of the word "efficiency;" and I am surprised that the right hon. Gentleman, who has gone through the gradations of office, as gentlemen of his high connections have the opportunity of
 883 "It appears to us that the doubts which took possession of the public mind as to the expediency of constructing the forts at Spithead were not unreasonable." 884 885 886 à fortiori 887 "We therefore think it safer to draw our conclusions as to the effect of shot upon armourplated vessels from experiments made in this country than from the accounts which have
 888 "But the experiments carried on with Sir W. Armstrong's 12-ton gun against the  Warrior Warrior Warrior 889 890 891 Warrior 892 "I used to think that no plates could resist the rifled gun, but I have changed that opinion. We have found that they are not so efficient as they were supposed to be, and that we must arm our ships with heavy smooth-bore guns, the velocity of which at 300 yards is much greater. 893 894 Excellent "I think the forts are a very material addition: to the defence of the place, but I am not sure that the existence of forts on the outer shoals would make any difference as to the number of vessels you would require to meet an enemy determined to attack you." 895
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : I do not think I have any reason to regret the discussion which has taken place; for although it has been made a matter of taunt that speeches have been delivered on the subject of these Spithead forts, I think it is more a matter of taunt to the Government that they should put such a Resolution upon the paper never intending to propose it. What alternative had I, not knowing the secret councils of the Treasury bench, but to master the subject as well as I was able? I leave it to the Committee to say whether I did master the subject, and whether any detailed answer has been given to my objections. It has been said by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for War that no sane man could propose such an Amendment as mine, or could suggest the postponement of these works; yet in the next breath, with the sanity which generally distinguishes the right hon. Gentleman, he proposed himself to postpone the further construction of the Works at Spithead. What an answer this is to the Resolution which the right hon. Gentleman himself moved! But I go further, and say, that if the works at Spithead are postponed, the same principles apply to the forts at Plymouth. The noble Lord went off on the forts behind the breakwater, but there are other forts at Plymouth to which the same conditions apply as to those at Spithead, the only difference being that the Plymouth forts are 1,500, while the Spithead forts are 2,000 yards apart. However, I will not urge this point to-night. The noble Lord (Lord C. Paget) said he would offer no apology to me. Well, I asked for none. I can hardly expect that the noble Lord, who, when out of office, accused the Admiralty of spending £5,000,000, which never appeared in the Estimates, and who failed to make any apology to Sir Bald win Walker when he was shown to be quite in the wrong—I can hardly expect him to make an apology to so humble an individual as myself. But when he comes down and endeavours to salve over his explanation respecting the experiments at Shoeburyness, I put it to the hon. and gallant Member the Chairman of the Iron Plate Committtee (Sir J. Hay), whether I have
 963
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, that silence gave consent, and because the House was not disposed at so late an hour to enter into a discussion upon the Bill, it was not to be supposed that they did not take an interest in the question, or did not fully appreciate the value of the concession made by the American Government.
 MR. SCULLY  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether he intends to proceed on Friday next with the five Irish Bills that stand on the Paper for that day, and in what order he intends taking them?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the state of the case was
 868
 MR. W. EWART  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Public Works, Whether the public are to be accommodated by the restoration of the old, and by a greater number of new seats in Hyde Park and Kensington Gardens, especially round the larger trees therein?
 MR. GREGORY  said, in the absence of the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Belfast (Sir H. Cairns) he wished to ask the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin, Whether it is intended to proceed with the Marriages (Ireland) Bill?
 MR. MONSELL  said, he regretted that no Member of the Government had risen to answer the objections of the hon. Member for Stamford (Sir S. Northcote). There were, he held, three questions of detail involved in the Resolution with regard to Dover, sea fortifications, and land defences, which were most inconveniently combined, and ought to be considered  seriatim 942 943
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the Bill had been much pressed upon him. With regard to London, the regulations were the same as the Acts in force relating to gunpowder.
 MR. BRAND  moved the second reading of the Bill.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he would withdraw his Motion.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he must object to going on with the Bill at that time of night. There were several objections to it, but it was impossible to discuss them at that time. He should move that the Chairman report progress.
 SIR JOHN WALSH  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down seemed to think that there was much virtue in the old maxim of a multitude of counsellors producing wisdom. Treble the Commission; place on that Commission a great proportion of civilians, not particularly acquainted with military matters, and the result would be a most improved Report. The question was, no doubt, both difficult and complicated, but he doubted whether the specific of the hon. Gentleman would lead to a satisfactory conclusion. Both the hon. Gentleman who had introduced this discussion, and the hon. Baronet who had just sat down, had adopted a line of argument which he (Sir John Walsh) considered was based on fallacious grounds. They had endeavoured to show that there was no occasion for what was proposed by the Government, because there was no possible ground for apprehending any concealed hostility towards this country on the part of the Emperor of the French. They assumed, that because there was no manifestation of enmity towards us on the part of that sovereign, all our preparations were unnecessary, and that we had better relinquish altogether our expensive armaments. If that was not what they said, at all events it was the immediate and palpable conclusion which must be drawn from their arguments. Now, he admitted all those two hon. Gentlemen said of the Emperor of Napoleon. He fully believed that His Imperial Majesty entertained friendly feelings towards this country; but he did not put the defence of England on so narrow a ground. He did not put it on the mere life of a man;
 941 Trent
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  stated, that on Friday, at the morning sitting, he proposed to take up the remaining clauses of the Poor Law Bill; and, having got through these, he hoped at an early hour to proceed with the County Surveyors Bill and the Weights and Measures Bill.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, it was the intention of the Government to proceed with it. He hoped to obtain a morning sitting next week for that purpose.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  stated, that he had received a communication from the noble Lord at the head of the Government, expressing his willingness to lay on the table of the House the whole of the Correspondence with reference to the Skibbereen and Castletown Unions since the month of November, 1861.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he wished to say a few words, although he felt, in common with every other hon. Member, that the Government had, to a certain extent, met the question before the House by the concession it had made in respect to the Spithead forts. At any rate, they had deprived hon. Gentlemen of the opportunity of delivering the speeches they had intended to make. He did not for a moment pretend to impeach the judgment of the Defence Commission on the score of integrity, but he thought the Government ought to abrogate the present constitution of that Commission, and re-establish it on a different basis. If they chose as Commissioners professional men only, whose thoughts had run in one groove all their lives, it would be easy to tell beforehand what their Report would be. When Sir R. Peel consulted Sir Howard Douglas on the subject of armaments, that officer gave an opinion which had cost the country millions of money; for he advised a continuance in the building of wooden ships, although the construction of iron vessels had then actually commenced. If the one third of the Commissioners consisted of civilians of administrative experience and ability, another third of officers skilled
 936 Warrior 937 "The altered condition in relation to the protection of ships had practically rendered the great majority of permanent works now in existence, and now in process of erection, comparatively valueless." 938 939 attaché 940
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, there was one lesson which the Committee might draw with much profit from the course of this discussion—a lesson derived not so much from conflicting opinions about the comparative value of forts and ships, or the comparative power of guns, but from the position in which they found themselves, and which would show the mode in which they ought to proceed in dealing with large questions of expenditure. They wore in a position to see the inconvenience of the course taken in 1860. He referred not so much to the subject
 927 928 animus animus "Looking back to the naval preparation of this country at different periods since 1840, and the very great difference which has prevailed, owing to the prevalence of different economical views at different times, are not forts, when once built and paid for, a truly permanent defence, a safer reliance than floating defences, which are perishable, and which you may not be able to renew when they are wanted?" "I acknowledge the full eight of the argument contained in that question." 929 930 sine die 931 932 933
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  observed that the Bill was not even printed.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the Bill was in accordance with the terms of the treaty.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I think I may infer from what has been passing that the Committee would wish to come to a decision this evening upon the question before them, and I think I may say so the more confidently because this is only the first stage of the proceeding. It is really and substantially asking leave to bring in a Bill. The Bill, when brought in, will go through its several stages, and hon. Members will have the opportunity, both on the second reading and in Committee, to discuss any part of the arrangement which challenges observation. In the first place, I will make some remarks upon what fell from the hon. Baronet the Member for Stamford (Sir S. Northcote) who was very eloquent in defence of posterity. He objected to our plan because it throws upon posterity a burden which we ought to take upon ourselves. He reminds me a little
 945 946 947 948 A Speech Intended to be Spoken 949 Merrimac Monitor 950 951 "—paribus se legibus ambæ "Invictæ gentes æterna in fœdera mittant." 952 953 Warrior 954
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he could only account for the strong expressions of the hon. Member, by supposing that he had not read all the clauses of the Bill. The measure, he believed, would be fraught with the greatest benefit to Scotland in a sanitary point of view. A Police Act was passed in 1850, relating to the same matters; that Bill contained 350
 982
 MR. ELLICE (Kilmarnock)  said, the Bill had been sent round to all the boroughs of Scotland, and he believed that no objection had been raised in any quarter to the Bill generally. There had been objections to matter of detail; but in most cases those objections had been met on representations being made to the Lord Advocate. On the whole, the Bill would prove of great advantage.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, the clause was precisely the same as the clause on the same subject in the Act of 1850.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, the graduated scale in Edinburgh was fixed by Act of Parliament. He would accept the Amendment.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that the matter had been fully considered at the private meeting of Scotch Members, who discussed the clauses of the Bill, and he believed they were almost unanimous in agreeing to the principle laid down in Clause 87, which gave the power to the commissioners to levy from the owners, and to allow them a reduction of one-fourth of the assessment.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, the effect of the Amendment would be to benefit the owner, not the occupier. The occupier might be exempted, but it was well known that in the long run such exemptions only caused the rents to be increased.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he had no objection to make the alteration.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he would consent to have the clause struck out.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  proposed to leave out this clause.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he would move that the clauses from 230 to 242, inclusive, be struck out. They gave power to the Commissioners to purchase and lease gasworks and manufacture and supply gas.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he could not consent to the clause, as it was generally objected to by the burghs.
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for War, Under what circumstances the sum of £19,385 15 s d
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that the sum to which the right hon. and gallant Member referred was made up of excesses on Votes for the Land Forces in the year in question, which were transferred under the authority of the Treasury.
 GENERAL PEEL  said, that his question referred, not to the authority, but to the circumstances under which the payment had been made.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that as the payment was not made while he was Secretary for War, he was not master of the circumstances. He would inform himself of them, and would then answer the question of the right hon. and gallant Member.
 MR. PEEL  said, the rights which had been sold were altogether forestal rights connected with deer, and were transferred to the owners with the lands out of which they arose. Supposing the rights to have any existence, the Government had taken no steps to extinguish them; neither had they taken any measures to ascertain their existence. The Government had acted throughout under the advice of the Law Officers of the Crown.
 MR. PEEL  said, he did not believe that any such steps were in contemplation.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the matter stood thus. The House having appointed a Select Committee to inquire into the whole question of the Ecclesiastical Commission, the question was, whether they would order the Returns before the Report of that Committee was presented. The Committee might probably be already in possession of the information required, or of such information as might render the Returns unnecessary. The usual course was, when a Committee was appointed, to abstain from inquiry until the Report was presented.
 MR. HEYGATE : Sir, in submitting to the consideration of the House the Resolution which now stands in my name, I can assure the House that I am by no means insensible to the difficulties inher-rent in the question with which it proposes to deal—a question which has long puzzled many wiser heads than mine, and which has already received at the hands of all the eminent statesmen of the country every kind of treatment, and every variety of argument and illustration of which the subject is capable; and, Sir, mindful of the old saying that "fools rush in where angels fear to tread," I should have shrunk from the responsibility of again disturbing the question this year but for the fact that the propositions which the right hon. Gentleman has laid before the House necessarily involved a discussion of the whole question of church rates, and that thereby a fitting opportunity was afforded to any one who imagined he saw a possible solution of the question to submit his ideas to the consideration of the House; and, Sir, I think it cannot be necessary to seek far for excuses for any one who proposes any solution of this painful and ever recurring question. All must allow that the law relating to church rates is in an anomalous condition, and most of us will allow that as the matter stands it produces religious animosities, and is accompanied by constant inconvenience and occasional injustice, and has produced in some instances effects injurious to the best interests of religion. I, Sir, am one of those, and I believe they are numerous on both sides of this House, who have never given a vote upon the Bill of the hon. Baronet opposite with unqualified satisfaction; and I cannot but express my deep regret that after the memorable occasion of last year when 274 Members of the House walked into either lobby, followed as that event was by a division this year on the same subject hardly less extraordinary, Her Majesty's
 1002 status quo 1003 "To my mind it is one of the saddest thoughts that has pressed upon it during my residence in this place, that when people built these churches they were so selfish they built them for themselves, or those who could pay for them. But for those who cannot pay what accommodation do they make? Nothing, 1 will venture to say, but what is an insult to working men. I thank God that the Church of England is awakening to her senses in this matter—to break down the barriers, and throw open her churches, that the Gospel may be preached as free as air. The shabby resort of supporting the clergyman by letting the pews is the most beggarly contrivance that ever entered the minds of men. This is the reason why we have lost so many excellent and worthy Members from our Church; and if, as I become more and more acquainted with the working men
 1004 pro hâc vice 1005 "If to meet these necessities a sum was to be taken from the Consolidated Fund, it would relieve the landowners of the country from the duty of supporting the Church. Whether there should he a new apportionment of this charge on the land, making the owner and not the occupier contribute (a plan which he owned would, in his judgment, be justice) thus continuing the connection between the landowner and the Church—whether it would be possible to reconcile such a plan with some means of giving relief to the Dissenters, without any invidious test being imposed…… whether it would be possible to do these things, he was not prepared to say, but at least they were deserving the best consideration." [3  Hansard 1006 
 
 Landowners, all Churchmen 1,367 
 " Large majority Churchmen 7,436 
 " Dissenters, or about equal 1,050 
 " Not stated 353 
 Total 10,206 1007 "Is it the case that the incidents of the rate, though they primarily fall upon the occupier, invariably in the long run rest upon the owner?" "Invariably; it is not by a mere consequence, it is by an arrangement that anticipates all payment of rent whatsoever. No rent is ever set but upon the consideration of all the outgoings that the tenant will have to pay or provide for. Amongst these, and some of the most conspicuous, and the most easily calculated of all, are the rates and taxes which a tenant has to pay. I do not know whether the Committee have had before them the evidence on this subject, but it is very accessible, namely, in the practical experience of every surveyor and of every house or land agent, who would tell your Lordships that he never, in the whole course of his business, attempted to agree or set a rent without first considering all the rates which, a tenant would have to pay, and deducting those from the estimate of the natural or gross rent that the property was worth." "Wherever the occupier is made liable as such to any rate, there can never be a question as to the eventual economical operation of that legal liability. You may make a rate upon the owner, or upon the occupier, or say it shall be on lands and tenements; but you cannot, by any device, avoid this certain effect, that if the subject in respect of which the assessment is to be made is the subject of occupation, nobody will come into occupation as a payer of rent without taking that obligation into his calculation as an outgoing, and having the rent reduced accordingly." 1008 "That in order to effect a satisfactory settlement of the Law relating to Church Rates, it is expedient in the first place to transfer their direct charge, together with all powers of imposing the same, from the occupiers to the owners of property."
 LORD HENLEY  said, that he did not think there was the least chance of coming to a settlement of the question if such settlement would take everything for one party, and would give nothing to the other side. The proposition before the House would place the opponents of the rate in a, worse, and the supporters of the rate in a better position than they were in at present, because it would enable the owners by their proxies to swamp occupiers when the subject came to be discussed in the vestry. He did not see any provision in the proposed Resolutions for allowing church rates to cease in those parishes where they had already ceased to be levied for a great number of years. The practical consequence, therefore, of the owners of property being allowed to vote would be that in a great many towns and parishes, where the rate had ceased to be collected, a new struggle would be commenced, and war would again ensue. He was anxious to see a settlement of this question. He did not desire to see it continued either as a party cry or as a grievance, but he asked whether any settlement such as now proposed was likely to prove satisfactory? He thought it utterly out of the question, because it would place the opponents of church rates in a worse position than they are in at present. Still, he did not see why one day or another some plan might not be originated in which both parties should agree. Such a plan must proceed from one of two quarters. It must come from the Nonconformists and be accepted by the party opposite, or else the Government in some future year might take up the question, and by their influence and with the desire of all parties for a settlement of the question, might carry a measure which, bringing about a compromise alike satisfactory to the members of the Church of England and to the Dissenters, would do good not only to the cause of the Church, but of religion generally.
 MR. HEYGATE  said, that it was not his intention to divide the House upon his
 1017
 MR. PEEL  said, that the proposal was substantially the same as had been submitted by the hon. Member, and rejected by the House, on a recent occasion. If a Committee were appointed, they must have before them the case which had been submitted for counsel's opinion, this case containing the evidence of title on the part of the Crown; and, in point of fact, the question which the Committee would consider would be the title of the Crown to this property. Well, that was rather a question to be decided by a court of law than by a Committee. As between the corporation of Hull and the Crown, the Court of Chancery had already decided in favour of the latter; and that was really therefore an attempt to appeal to that House from a decision of a court of law. Since the decision of the Vice Chancellor the Crown had entered into an arrangement with a company at Hull respecting the land. That arrangement had been embodied in a Bill, and it would be inconsistent, after dealing with the property in this way, now to inquire whether that property belonged to the Crown or not. The hon. Member had asked whether the citadel was part of the hereditary possessions of the Crown. The Government regarded it as Crown property. They were fortified in this view by the opinions of the Law Officers of two successive Governments and the opinion to which the hon. Gentleman had referred as having been given by two gentlemen of the legal profession, was given upon an incomplete case and in ignorance of material facts. The hon. Member seemed to suppose that because the land had been in possession of the War Department it had therefore become public property; but the Tower, Chelsea Hospital, and Dover Castle, were in the same way under the control of the War Department, and yet nobody supposed that those places were not part of the hereditary possessions of the Crown. The Hull citadel was, no doubt, temporarily in possession of the War Department; but when that occupation ceased, the property reverted to the Crown and came properly under the management of the Commissioners of Works. He hoped the House would not sanction the appointment of a Committee.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that on the part of the War Department he rose to confirm the statement made by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary to the Treasury. He had himself inquired into the case, and had seen the opinions given on the question by two separate Law Officers of the Crown. Whatever question there might be in the matter would be one as between the War Department and the Woods and Forests. There was really no necessity for the inquiry at all.
 LORD DUNKELLIN  said, that he rose to call the attention of the House to the position in which the Atlantic Royal Mail Company was placed, and to inquire what were the intentions of the Government
 1021 1022
 COLONEL DICKSON  moved that the House should go into Committee on this Bill.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, the objects of the Bill had been twice explained, and it had been sent to a Select Committee. He hoped the House would consent to go into the Bill at that comparatively early hour of the morning.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that he was anxious to introduce the Bill, which would be in exactly the same form as that of 1860, and he proposed to fix the second reading for the following Monday.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, that he, as a member of the Committee, was under the impression that the information asked for would be found in the evidence given before the Committee, which would shortly be published.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, that the Government seemed quite enamoured of the inaction they had observed on this question. They had been reproached with not settling it, and an hon. Member, who might be called a friendly monitor (Mr. Bright), had spoken of them as superior clerks on account of the conduct they had pursued. They not only abstained, however, from initiating the discussion of this question, but they arrested any discussion which others might initiate. His right hon. Friend the Member for North Wilts (Mr. S. Estcourt) had been taunted for having introduced a subject which he had been told was better fitted for the meetings of the Social Science Association. The object of such discussions was to enable the House to make up its mind. If ever there was a case in which an assembly found it difficult to make up its mind, it was on a subject on which a majority of seventy on one side had ended in a majority of one on the other. The House of Commons had been engaged for ten years in a search after a compromise, and
 1014 1015 1016
 MR. BLACK  said, he objected to the clause as it stood, as it would prevent the Bill working in Edinburgh. Under the existing system, the magistrates of Edinburgh were in the habit of levying one rate on rentals above £10, and a lower rate on rentals less than £10. The clause however, would compel them to levy the same rate upon all. He hoped, therefore, that the learned Lord Advocate would accept the following Amendment:—
 "Provided further, when in any burgh, under the provisions of any Police Act, a higher rate of assessment is now and has been in use to be
 983
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, it was too late to proceed with the Bill at that hour. There were other orders on the paper waiting to be disposed of, and he therefore moved that the House do now adjourn.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. DUNLOP  said, he should be satisfied if that change were made.
 MR. DUNLOP  said, rather than leave out the clause be wished that it should be amended by providing that no contract for the removal of a toll-bar should he valid unless agreed to at a general meeting of trustees, and confirmed at another meeting; and that when a toll-bar had been re-erected, the same tolls should be levied as were levied before its removal.
 MR. DUNLOP  said, he approved of the Bill generally, though he felt that some objections might be made to it. One of those objections was, that the £5 householders were not to have the right to vote.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, that he hoped the Government would not decline to grant the Returns. A great deal had been said about the expense of printing Returns; but when the matter was looked into last year, it was found to be comparatively a trifle.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  asked whether the hon. Gentleman intended to move for the Committee this Session?
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, that he was compelled to bring forward the Motion, of which he had given notice, for a Select Committee to inquire into the transfer of Hull Citadel and adjoining premises from the War Department to the Woods and Forests, owing to the refusal of the Government to produce the case agreed to by the two departments and the opinion of the Law Officers thereon. From the time of Henry VIII. it had always been deemed an important fortification, and during the Civil Wars was used as a fortification. The language of numerous Acts of Parliament, from the beginning of the reign of George III. down to the 5 & 6  Vict Vict Vict 1019
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH , in reply, observed that the principle of the Government seemed to be that any property applied to public uses, when no longer required for those uses, must be held to be the property of the Crown. A more dangerous doctrine he could scarcely conceive, or one that required more careful attention when they were voting the estimates.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I shall refrain, on the present occasion, from entering into any discussion of the principle of church rates; but I think it due to my right hon. Friend the Member for North Wiltshire (Mr. S. Estcourt), however I may differ from him on points of detail, to bear my testimony to the highly honourable and straightforward manner in which he has acted throughout this controversy. It is very advantageous that a Gentleman of his intelligence and position in the House should take such opportunities as the present, on a question which has so long been the subject public controversy, to urge us to express an opinion upon the means by which ultimately some satisfactory arrangement may be made. Hitherto, the only conclusion at which I have arrived is the conviction that when the question of church rates was first brought forward for public discussion much too narrow and limited a view was taken of it by Parliament. The truth is, we have discovered, after the discussion of the question for a quarter of a century, what important interests and what great principles are involved in it. The principle of a National Church, the practice of local government, the privileges of the great body of the population, and, above all, that principle of the pre-
 1012
 MR. BUXTON  said, that he regretted that the right hon. Gentleman had felt it necessary to move the first of his Resolutions, as the second and third would have carried out the desire for compromise which had been freely expressed, and would have effected a settlement of this disputed question. He believed that some such settlement would ultimately be agreed upon. While relieving the consciences of Dissenters, and putting an end to every practical grievance—because any one who deemed the system a grievance would be relieved from payment of the impost—it would at the same time avoid any sacrifice of principle on the part of conscientious Churchmen, or anything that could damage the position of the Church of England, all the existing machinery being retained. He thought they had practical proof, that if the present system were done away with, the churches of this country would be maintained as well as they were now, for there was scarcely any instance in which church rates had been enforced of late. There was almost invariably something illegal in the way in which the rates were levied, and which could not be sustained if any one objected to pay them. His own persuasion was, that to adopt such a compromise as he had suggested would tend greatly to increase a feeling of interest in their parish churches on the part of the people. They would learn to regard them as something in which they had a personal interest—as something which it remained with them to determine whether they should be allowed to fall into decay, or whether they should be handed down to their posterity intact. With regard to pew rents,
 1001
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that as reference to the Bill which he had brought in on this subject had been made by the hon. Member for Leicester (Mr. Heygate), who seemed to think that the proposal he should have to make would interfere with the rights of the vestries in providing for the maintenance of their parish churches, he begged to assure the hon. Member, that if he would examine the Bill which stood in his.(Mr. Newdegate's) name, he would find that it was framed with caution, and that it provided effectual machinery for preserving the rights of the parishioners in vestry assembled to control the arrangements of their own churches. He had been highly gratified with the course of this debate; for although he could not agree with the proposal of his right hon. Friend (Mr. Sotheron Estcourt), on account of several of the objections that had
 1013
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he would move that the order be discharged.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, there was not the smallest desire to withhold any information. It was simply a question whether the trouble and expense of printing these Returns separately ought to be incurred, when they might be included in the proceedings of the Committee.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he should support the Amendment of his hon. Friend, on the ground that the clause, as it at present stood, took away from the commissioners the discretion which they now had of exempting certain property from taxation, for police purposes, which in their opinion ought not to be assessed.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he had such a strong objection to the clause, that if any Member would move its omission he would support him.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, that he understood that the Government were prepared to give the most favourable consideration to the claims of the company, provided it could prove itself to be in a position to carry out the engagements into which it
 1024
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, that he hoped the House would go into Committee on the Bill.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, that he sup-
 989
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he would beg to ask whether the contemplated changes would include any diminution of fees to the Officers of the House?
 MR. WHALLEY  begged to second the Motion, and expressed a hope that the House would at once put an end to the Bill for the present Session.
 MR. HODGKINSON  (who had given notice of the following Amendment: —
 To leave out all the words after the figure 1, and to add the following words: To authorize the levy of a rate or rent in respect of the appropriated portion of seats in churches, but so that no appropriation of seats in any church shall be made to a greater extent than now actually exists") 998 999 s 1000
 MAJOR EDWARDS  said, that he hoped his hon. Friend would insist on the Motion There were large charities belonging to the borough he had the honour to represent, and an impression existed that they were not fairly distributed. The fact was they were under the management of one party.
 MR. CRUM-EWING  said, he should press his Amendment.
 MR. CRUM-EWING  proposed, in page 31, line 22, after the word "may," to insert the words "if they think fit, exempt from the police assessment under this Act all premises which shall be let at a, rent not exceeding £3, or such lower sum as they may fix for that purpose; and in respect to premises let at any higher rent, they may also—"
 MR. CRUM-EWING  said, he wished to move the insertion of words providing that in any burghs in which commissioners of the police were elected by occupiers of land and premises of a yearly value below £10, the word householder should mean a male occupier of lands and premises of the yearly value required in such burgh for the election of police commissioners.
 MR. CLAY  said, that if the hon. Member for Truro divided the House on the question, he would divide with him. The arguments urged by the right hon. Secretary of the Treasury did not appear to him to be in point. The value of the proceedings in the courts of law, ho understood, went for nothing, inasmuch as the case should have been submitted to a court of equity instead of a court of law. He believed the question to be a proper one for inquiry, impressed as he was with the conviction that the property had never been purchased by the Crown at all. The investigation, if entered into, would doubtless prove a most interesting one to archaeologists, as it would commence with a disputed sale of the citadel to Henry VIII., the fact being that the citadel formed no part whatever of the Hull property that was sold to Henry VIII.
 MR. BRADY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, When the Writs for the Election of Coroners for Middlesex will be issued?
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that he proposed to defer it till the 9th of July.
 MR. HOPWOOD  said, that he scarcely felt inclined to withdraw his Motion. Some of the information asked for in the Returns, especially with regard to the order of necessity in the judgment of the Commissioners, would be very valuable. Many gentlemen would be glad to offer large benefactions if they knew what was likely to become of them. On those points the Report of the Commissioners was not at all satisfactory.
 MR. HOPWOOD  said, he rose to move for a Return of Grants, &c., by the Ecclesiastical Commissioners in the year 1861. He had put a similar notice on the paper a month ago, but abstained from pressing it then, in consequence of a representation made to him that it would occasion considerable inconvenience.
 MR. LOCKE  said, that his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. M'Mahon) had used the most extraordinary argument. He was ready to admit into the courts of India witnesses amongst whom, he said, perjury was an institution, and yet he would not agree to the proposal of the hon. Baronet the Member for Tavistock, which rendered the violation of an oath, impossible. The hon. and learned Member for Dundalk had omitted altogether the circumstance that administration of an oath subjected the witness to the penalties of perjury, if he deposed to what was false. It was not the oath, but the penalty for perjury, that induced witnesses before Parliamentary Committees to be more careful than they were before. He hoped that the House would enable the hon. Baronet to bring in his Bill, in order that they might see how the measure was worded, because a great deal depended upon the verbiage employed.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that he wished to look on the question merely as a practical one—merely as a mode of arriving at the truth in the administration of justice. Now, if they doubted the truth of a witness, what was the first thing they did? They examined him on the  voir dire 1026
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  said, that he rose to move for leave to introduce a Bill to allow certain persons to make affirmations in all cases where an oath is or shall be required. He observed that last year a Bill received the sanction of Parliament altering in a certain degree the law of oaths, and he was anxious that the same principle should be carried a little further, to include jurors and others who were placed at a disadvantage as regarded the present state of the law. The Bill proposed also to enable persons not at present competent according to the English law to give evidence, to be heard upon making simple affirmations in the place of solemn affirmations, adopting in this respect a principle which already prevailed in India.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN : Some of the fees are dependent on the Standing Orders of this House, which will be under the cognizance of the Committee I shall have the honour to move for. But there are other fees which can only he investigated by a Committee having the power of examining into the whole question.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN : Sir, it is my intention to move for a Select Committee to revise the Standing Orders of the House; and if the House accede to my proposition, I intend to propose certain Resolutions connected with the Standing Orders which will have the effect of reducing some of the expenses of private legislation in this House. There are other expenses incurred in private legislation before Parliament which have no reference to Standing Orders. I am not in a position to investigate that subject, inasmuch as certain Returns which I moved for at the early part of the Session hare not yet been furnished. Perhaps I may take this opportunity of giving notice to my right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade that on to-morrow I shall ask him why the Returns having reference to the expenses incurred by Railways and other Companies in private legislation have not sooner been furnished to the House.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN : I shall give notice this evening of my intention to move on Thursday.
 MR. DILLWYN  begged to second the Motion.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, that it was not his intention to proceed with the Bill this Session, nor was it his intention to trouble the House by raising a discussion or dividing upon it, but he would state the principles of the Bill. Having endeavoured to improve the law relating to grammar schools, he found that all his attempts at conciliation had been in vain; he had therefore drawn this Bill so as to embody the principles which he wished to carry
 1027
 MR. DILLWYN  said, that when the noble Lord the Member for Stamford (Lord R. Cecil) taunted the Ministerial side of the House with not being able to settle the question of church rates, he should have remembered that his own side of the House was not in a more happy position, for during that evening the House had had placed before them two or three Amendments, all emanating from Members sitting on the Opposition benches. The advocates of the unconditional abolition of church rates had long ago given up all idea of compromise, not from an unwillingness to look the question in the face, but from the conviction that no satisfactory proposal could be made short of entire abolition.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, that he should have felt disposed to oppose the Bill, were it not for the lateness of the Session, and the improbability of its passing into law. At the same time he could not help stating his objections to the measure. It seemed monstrous to ask the House of Commons to abrogate a rule of the law of England and of every other civilized country merely because it was not part of the law of India. He affirmed that by the law of India perjury was permissible, and, in fact, was one of the institutions of the country. He did not like to move the rejection of the Bill on the first reading; but, in truth, the principle of the Bill might as well be discussed then as at any other time; and without wishing any discourtesy to the hon. Baronet, as he should not probably have the opportunity of addressing the House again upon it, he should move that leave be not given to the introduction of the Bill.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he thought that a graduated scale of rating was objectionable in principle.
 MR. R. HODGSON  said, he wished to ask the Chairman of the Committee on Standing Orders, Whether he intends to move for the appointment of a Committee for the purpose of ascertaining whether any alteration can be made in the conduct of Private Business, so as to diminish the expense now incurred by Promoters and Opponents of Private Bills?
 MR. TORRENS  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, What steps have been taken by Her Majesty's Government to preserve the rights of pasture,
 987
 MR. TORRENS  said, he wished to know whether they were now prepared to take any steps which might be necessary for the preservation of those rights.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, it was rather hard on his hon. Friend, who had given notice of his Motion a month ago, to get such an unsatisfactory reply.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, that in his opinion the information asked for was very valuable, and that the House ought to insist upon any return which could throw light on the proceedings of the Ecclesiastical Commission. He hoped some assurance would be given by the Government, that when the plea of inconvenience no longer held good, the Returns would be granted.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he wished to guard himself while consenting that the Bill be laid on the table from its being supposed that he concurred in it.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, that it was only because no plan had proceeded from the Nonconformists or from the Government that individual Members of Parliament now came forward with plans for the settlement of the question. Because the Government would take no steps in the matter, was there any reason why all others should wait with folded arms? The only reason could be that the country had not yet made up its mind, and in order that it might consider both sides of the question, and come to a judgment upon it, it was desirable that independent Members should occasionally call attention to it. It was a mistake to suppose that his proposal was that one class should vote and another should pay the tax. What he intended was that, except where owners and occupiers jointly paid, owners alone should determine whether the rate should be enforced. A distinction had been drawn by the Home Secretary between the first and second divisions of his Resolution; but he did not mean that there should be any distinction. He had divided the Resolution merely to render it more plain and intelligible. On the whole, he was gratified with the course of the debate, because, to a certain extent, a, modified assent had been given to his Resolution. He had no desire to carry his proposal by a bare majority, because a settlement of the question could never be accomplished by that means. It was not in the House so much as in the country that he desired to elicit an opinion, and hence his wish to agitate the question. At present the Government had, perhaps, a right to say that they could do nothing until the mind of the country was more decided on the subject; but he trusted that
 1018
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, that he rose for the purpose of submitting to the House certain propositions by which he thought the law relating to church rates might be beneficially settled. He had been under the impression that it would not be competent to him to move the Resolution of which he had given notice without going through the preliminary form of moving that the House resolve itself into a Committee; but, understanding from good authority that no such preliminary step was necessary, he believed it would be more convenient to the House that he should move his substantive Resolution while the Speaker was in the chair. He hoped the House would permit him to preface his Motion by a few observations, seeing that he was engaged in the dangerous task of endeavouring to make peace between contending parties. He was blamed on both sides. He was blamed by those who thought it was indiscreet on his part to move in this matter again during the pre-
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, if his hon. Friend (Mr. Newdegate) intended to propose that the order be discharged, the proper course would be for him to make a Motion to that effect on the 9th July.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, it appeared to be the feeling of the House when the subject was last discussed, that the schedule to the former Bill was a very unsatisfactory one, and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would be prepared with a detailed estimate.
 MR. SCULLY  said, that he objected to proceeding with the Bill at that late hour of the morning (half-past twelve), especially as no explanation had been given on the first or second reading of the Bill. He begged to move that the debate be adjourned.
 MR. SCULLY  said, that he must resume his objections to the Bill, which he characterized as a measure of confiscation. He was, however, willing to discuss the provisions of the Bill, clause by clause.
 MR. SCULLY  said, that he objected to the words "one tenth," and proposed to substitute for them "one third," having reference to the number of proprietors that were empowered to put in operation the provisions of the Bill.
 MR. SCULLY  said, that he hoped the hon. Member would not persevere with his Amendment, so that the House might be enabled to discuss a measure of that vast importance. No discussion had as yet been taken on this Bill. It was read a second time after a speech of the hon. and gallant Member for Limerick (Colonel Dickson), who had charged him with wantonly obstructing his measure.
 MR. SCULLY  said, that he hoped there would be no division, and that the hon. Baronet would be allowed to bring in his Bill, in order that the House might see what it was like. His own impression was that there were very few persons who would tell a falsehood that would not also swear to the truth of it.
 MR. COGAN  said, that ho protested against going into Committee on so important a Bill at half-past twelve o'clock at night, which seriously affected the rights of private property.
 MR. DEEDES  said, that observations had frequently been made in that House as to the expense of the Commission. A great deal of outlay was incurred by the preparation of returns, which, when furnished, were never made use of, or found to be of the slightest value. It was for the House to determine whether they would refuse returns of the kind, which required a great deal of time and attention to prepare, and which were attended with considerable expense. He hoped the House would not assent to the Motion of his hon. Friend.
 MR. MONSELL  said, the objection to the Bill proposed was that it was exactly in the same unsatisfactory form as the Bill of 1860. If the precedent were followed, for instance, the twenty-two works at Plymouth would all be classed together, and there would be no separate detailed account for each of the ports.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, that his objections to the Bill were wholly of a practical nature. The object of judicial procedure was to discover the truth; and it was notorious, as a matter of experience, that many witnesses who would not scruple
 1025
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I shall offer but a very few observations to the House on the question before it, inasmuch as no practical issue has in reality been raised during the course of this discussion. Indeed, the question, as it has been brought under our notice to-night, has assumed a shape rather better suited to the recent meetings of the Social Science Association than to the House of Commons. But, however that may be, nobody can doubt the sincerity of the motives which have induced my right hon. Friend opposite to draw again our attention to the subject, while I think the observations which have fallen from him clearly show the difficulty of effecting any satisfactory settlement respecting it. My right hon. Friend gave notice of his Motion on the 23rd of May, and, as the notice then stood, it was of a character very distinct and definite. It proposed that pew rents should be more extensively collected by means of voluntary arrangement, and then, but only in the event of voluntary contributions failing, that there should be a special meeting of the vestry convened, and a special rate levied to make up the deficiency in those contributions. The right hon. Gentleman, however, very soon altered that proposition materially. The Resolutions of my right hon. Friend have undergone other alterations, and now they are submitted to the House in a shape very different from that in which they were first put upon the paper. I am bound to say that to the first Resolution I think there are very grave objections. That Resolution, if carried into effect, so far from leading to an amicable settlement of the question, would open a new source of discord in every parish. It is to be presumed that the vestry which is to decide the question whether the liability as regards the repair of the parish church and churchyard should be transferred from occupiers to owners is to be composed of both classes of persons. We all know that in an ordinary country parish the occupiers are far more numerous than the owners. As a matter of course, therefore, the latter would be out-
 1010 1011
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had explained at the time to the hon. Member that the request for delay was made in consequence of a communication from the Earl of Chichester, the Chairman of the Commission.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he hoped the Motion would not be pressed. A Committee was now sitting, within the scope of whose inquiry the information asked for clearly came; and until that Committee made its Report, it was undesirable to call for such voluminous Returns.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that only one application had been made for the issue of a Writ—namely, for the central district of Middlesex. That Writ had been issued that afternoon.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said that the hon. Member had taken a most unusual course.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that although the hour was late for a Committee on a disputed Bill, he still hoped, that as the Bill had been referred to a Select Committee and fully investigated, the House might now proceed to a decision at once as to whether they should go into Committee or not.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he thought the proposed expenditure unwise because, assuming that there was danger from our neighbours, the object of the House should have been to get an iron squadron. But if £1,200,000 was to be spent, he contended that the mode of raising the money was inconvenient; and, again, there was no sufficient guarantee how the money was to be spent. There should be in the Bill not merely a schedule, but a specific estimate with every detail, and then, if hon. Members objected to a particular fort, they could discuss it with adequate information. There should also be a provision for a proper audit.
 MR. CAIRD  would suggest that the exercise of the power of assessment in Clause 87 should be made imperative and not optional; and if that change were made, he thought it would be sufficient.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he wished to be informed when the discussion would be taken on the subject. It was desirable that the House should have before it the results of experiments lately made, which had shown that the largest guns might be used on board Captain Coles' cupola ship without jar or detriment to the vessel, thus upsetting the theory that ships could not carry as large guns as forts.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he proposed to add a clause after Clause 14, providing that where the Act shall be adopted within a portion only of the territory comprehended within the Parliamentary or municipal boundaries of any burgh, the commissioners of supply of the county may petition the sheriff for extension of boundaries, so as to make the place affected by the Act co-extensive with the Parliamentary or municipal boundaries of the said burgh.
 SIR JOHN OGILVY  opposed the omission.
 SIR MICHAEL STEWART  said, the clause appeared to him most objectionable. It provided that no house should be built higher than the width of the street.
 SIR MICHAEL STEWART  said, he believed the Bill had not yet been generally read in Scotland, and that as it became better understood, a strong opposition to it would arise.
 SIR MICHAEL STEWART  said, he would take that opportunity of expressing his opinion of the general scope of the measure, to which he entertained strong objections, He believed, however, that the Bill would never pass into a law. He did not oppose going into Committee on it, because he feared he should not be supported. But some of the provisions of this Bill of nearly 500 clauses were monstrous; many of them were nonsensical. His main objection was that it tied hand and foot the proprietors of land and occupiers of houses, and placed them at the mercy of a body of commissioners and magistrates. The only hope was that those commissioners who had to carry the Act into effect would have the good sense not to put in force many of the clauses.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  begged to second the Motion.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : My noble Friend has stated the case with great clearness and great fidelity in his recital of what took place on this subject on former occasions, and I have nothing to remark upon either the form or the substance of his statement. It is quite true, as he says, that some time ago—I think in the month of May—a deputation did me the honour of coming to me on the subject of this contract. That which they stated, as I understood it, was not with regard to their present ability to carry into effect any contract which might be entered into with them, but referred to their expectation that at a future time, not far distant, they would be in a condition to execute any engagement into which they might enter. Her Majesty's Government has not had from them, after that, a statement that they were in that condition. A letter was addressed to them last week, to which I understand an answer was received at the Treasury this morning expressing their view as to their ability to fulfil any contract which they might undertake. I can assure my noble Friend that it will be the duty of the Government to give the earliest attention to that answer; and we feel, for the reasons stated by my noble Friend bearing on the period of the Session, that it is due to the company and due also to the Government that a definite answer should, founded on the statement which has been sent in, be given at the earliest possible moment. And I do not doubt that in the early part of next week we shall be able to communicate to them our decision. It would not, I think, be useful or convenient for me to anticipate, one way or the other, the conclusion at which we may arrive. I can only assure my noble Friend, and those interested in this subject, that nothing which tends to promote the interests of Ireland can be a matter of indifference to Her Majesty's Government. On the other hand, the House must perceive that we have duties to perform as the guardians of the public purse, and that there are therefore these mixed considerations to be taken into account with the view of giving a final answer to the application which we have received.
 SIR GEOEGE LEWIS  said, that the claims of the corps employed under Sir Hugh Rose were still under consideration, and he could not say when a decision would he arrived at. He hoped, however, that it would not he long postponed.
 SIR GEOEGE LEWIS : I was unable, Sir, on a former day, to give to the right hon. and gallant Gentleman opposite (General Peel) the exact information he desired with respect to the circumstances under which a charge of £19,385 15s.  3d 3d
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he wished to know whether there has been any corre-
 1104
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, he understood that there was a voluminous correspondence between the War Office and the Governor of the Cape, upon which, he believed, the decision of the Treasury was founded. He had no reason to doubt that that correspondence might be produced, but he should like to look at it before he gave a final answer.
 MR. COWPER  said, that there had been considerable difficulty in getting accurate information upon some of the details of the Return, but he hoped that it would be laid upon the table in a few days.
 MR. LAYAED  said, that Her Majesty's Government had not received any information from China up to the date referred to, the 28th of April; and therefore he could not tell his hon. and gallant Friend if any arms, ammunition, or military stores had been given to the "Chinese" Government, for he did not know what the phrase "the Tartar Government" meant; but he might state that her Majesty's Government had determined that
 1105
 SIR GEOEGE LEWIS  said, that in re-
 1106
 SIR GEOEGE LEWIS  said, he proposed to do so on Monday next.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he wished to add the following proviso at the end of the clause:—
 "And if there shall be any disputed question of boundary between the applicants and any proprietor of adjoining land, which shall not have been previously determined by any competent authority, it shall be competent for the parties, or either of them, to object in writing to the determination of such question by the registrar or by a judge of the Court of Chancery under this Act; and if any such objection shall be made, the registrar shall specify upon the record of title the existence of such disputed question of boundary, and that the registration is made subject thereto."
 THE SOLICITOR GENEEAL  observed,
 1107
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he had no objection to the proposed words being inserted.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the point raised by the hon. and learned Member deserved attention. His present impression was, that the Bill as it stood sufficiently accomplished the object in view; but in case it did not, it would be easy to introduce any alterations which might be requisite upon the report.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  observed that the Bill must be tested by its results,
 1110
 MR. AYRTQN  said, he would remind the Committee that the Act regulating the registry in Chancery required that the assistant registrar and all persons capable of succeeding to that office should be solicitors. He did not see why a similar safeguard should not be provided with regard to the registry created under this Bill.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that he had no doubt that it was intended to make the appointments from time to time as the state of business rendered them necessary, but he could not undertake to state what staff might be required at first. The remarks of his hon. and learned
 1113
 MR. HENLEY  said, he hoped the Solicitor General would reconsider the superannuation arrangement proposed by the Bill. If a man was only fifty years old, and was able to work, why should he be superannuated merely because he had performed twenty years' service?
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he thought it would not be expedient to enter at that time upon the question of superannuation.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he would make inquiry in the proper quarter; He understood that the functions of examiners would include every branch of examination as at present discharged by examining counsel of the Court of Chancery and solicitors. The clause, however, involved nothing except what was contained all through the Bill. Therefore he trusted the Committee would pass it, and it, would be very easy to modify it on the report, if necessary.
 SIR JOHN HANMER  said, he regretted that so very important a branch, of real property as minerals was not directly mentioned in the Bill. In many parts of Wales and of the north of England the mines and minerals belonged to one person, the surface to another, and sometimes the lordship to a third. If a Bill of this kind were to be satisfactory to the owners of real estate all over the country, this case ought to be particularly stated, and to be dealt with by express words. He trusted that the Solicitor General would give notice of his intention, so that the owners of mines might take advice upon any new clause, because a small
 1115
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he would give early notice of what he intended to propose on the report. He would move an additional clause to meet the case of lords of manors. [Sir JOHN HANMER: That will not meet the case.] He would only remark at present, that if an owner's title were patent and on the deeds, his case would be provided for by the Bill; if it were latent and not upon the deeds, he must know his title better than anybody else, and might protect himself by entering a  caveat
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, they had not only the ordinary protection given under the 12th section, but they had it in their own hands to protect themselves by entering a  caveat
 MR. ATRTON  suggested, that those who were brought into the registrar's office to defend their rights should have their costs paid.
 THE SOLICITOR, GENERAL  said, he should not object to the clause, while he at the same time reserved to himself the right of considering whether it was one which it would be desirable should pass into a law eventually. If so, it might be expedient to introduce such a clause into the other Bills on the same subject.
 GENERAL BUCKLEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War,
 1103
 MR. AYRTON  said, that in some cases the fee of the surface was in the hands of one person and the fee of the minerals in the hands of another. The two were distinct; but the Bill seemed ^o treat the property in minerals as ancillary to the property on the surface.
 MR. AYRTON  said, the position of registrars in Chancery at present was well defined, and there was no reason why the assistant registrars and examiners of title to be appointed under the Bill should not be barristers, solicitors, or certificated conveyancers. He should therefore move to insert the words "the assistant registrars and examiners of title shall be barristers, solicitors, or certificated conveyancers."
 MR. AYRTON  said, some difference appeared to be drawn between the provisions with regard to notice in the case of defeasible and indefeasible titles.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, it appeared that the registrar and examiners of title were to be appointed by the Lord Chancellor. It was not stated, however,
 1108
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he would move that the words "with the consent of Her Majesty's Treasury," be added to the clause which vested these appointments in the Lord Chancellor.
 MR. PULLER  said, he thought it much better that the Lord Chancellor should bear the whole responsibility, and that the First Lord of the Treasury should represent a sort of court of appeal.
 MR. PULLER  said, he was of opinion that the clauses defining the qualifications of officers would only produce mischief, as they would relieve the Lord Chancellor from a portion of the liability which would otherwise devolve upon him. It was absurd to suppose that any person other than a barrister, solicitor, or conveyancing counsel would receive any appointment, unless, indeed, it might by chance happen that a person not so qualified was peculiarly fitted for the office. It would be best to trust to the unlimited responsibility of the Lord Chancellor.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he regretted that no means should be afforded for registration in the country, but that all business connected with titles should be Centralized in London.
 MR. MALINS  said, he would express a hope that his hon. and learned Friend would postpone the clause. It could not be discussed properly on the report.
 MR. MALINS  said, he for one, was unwilling to give the Lord Chancellor for the time being, whoever he might be, unlimited discretion in making such appointments as that of assistant registrar. Practically, the responsibility which had been spoken of had no place in the making of those appointments; and as the officer in question was to have a fixed salary, he could see no reason why the same security should not be required for his competency as was to be exacted in the case of the registrar. The assistant registrar would have to examine letters and transact a variety of business of the first importance in his office. It was therefore extremely expedient that he should be a duly qualified person and a man of standing in his profession. He would remind the Committee that Mr. Hargreave, to whom reference had been made as having been appointed to the Encumbered Estates Court in Ireland, was previously well-known as a conveyancing counsel, and that his selection could not as a consequence be urged with justice in favour of the course proposed by the clause under discussion. Those being his views, the Solicitor General would, he hoped, consent to modify the clause.
 MR. MALINS  said, he thought that the qualification ought to go further than was proposed by the Amendment, and that a barrister of five or ten years' standing should be required, otherwise a man might be called to the Bar for the purpose of getting one of those appointments. The officers to be appointed under the clause were to be substituted for men who now performed most important duties in Lincoln's Inn as conveyancing counsel. When it was considered that every man interested in land would in the most important cases have to depend on the knowledge of those officers, the Committee would see how necessary it was that a high qualification should be required. Was the Committee prepared to leave it to the Lord Chancellor of the day to say whether the salary given should be £2,000 or £1,500 a year, or whether the men who were to fill the offices should be barristers or solicitors called yesterday? Unless they took care that proper persons should be appointed, the working of the Bill would be most mischievous. He would strongly recommend his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General to postpone the clause for the purpose of considering who were to hold those offices, and what was to be the qualification.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, they had got to an important part of the Bill—namely, that which related to the appointment of the staff who were to carry its provisions into effect. He thought, therefore, that the Committee ought not to proceed further until they had an intimation from his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General as to what the probable expense of the working of the Bill would be. The Committee ought to be informed, as far as it was possible to do so, as to the number of the staff, the expense which was likely to be incurred, and whether that expense was to be met by fees, or by money out of the Suitors' Fund, or out of the Consolidated Fund.
 MR. WALPOLE , in page six, line four, moved to insert after "solicitor" the words "or certificated conveyancer." There were two sets of clauses in the Bill tinder which acts were to be done by solicitors and other persons. When the thing-was to be done in the Court of Chancery it was clearly right that the solicitor who was employed should be the person in that case; but he thought in those cases in which the thing was to be done before the person who investigated the title, the certificated conveyancer ought to have his right secured him if the party wishing to register his estate thought right to employ him, and it was with that object he moved the insertion of the words.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that further explanation was necessary as to the remuneration to be given to the officers under the Bill. There was obscurity as to the different functions these different officers were to discharge, and he thought it should be stated what were the functions respectively of the examiners and registrars of titles.
 MR. WALPOLE  explained, that the consent of the Treasury was only necessary to the amounts of the salaries. The appointment and removal of the officers was properly under the cognizance of the Lord Chancellor.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he was very anxious that the Bill should succeed. He did not think a greater boon could be conferred on landed proprietors than to give them the means of obtaining an indefeasible title. If, however, the measure imposed upon those who were unwilling to avail themselves of it the necessity for employing a professional gentleman and of incurring expenses in order to put themselves in as good a position as those who had taken advantage of its provisions, he believed the Bill would break down, and that Parliament would have again to be applied to.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the Amendment of the hon. and learned Gentleman would be a great improvement on the clause, but he had still some apprehension that it would not meet all the difficulties of the case. He feared that the result of registering boundaries would be to force the surrounding proprietors to employ solicitors to see how for their title might be affected by the party desiring to have his estate registered. The principle in all cases of that kind ought to be to avoid throwing upon parties other than those who wanted to have the benefit of the Act any legal or professional expense.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, it would be satisfactory to the House if the right hon. Gentleman stated on what day it was his intention to move the second reading of the Fortifications Bill.
 MR. COLLINS  said, he hoped the Committee would accept the suggestion of the hon. Member for Truro, so that the patronage of the Lord Chancellor might be restricted. Under the Bankruptcy Act of last year a salary of £1,200 a year was to be given to a barrister, and the Lord Chancellor for the time being thought fit to appoint a person who had probably never held a brief in his life. Last year the House made a great mistake, for either the man was unfit for the work—a thing which he would not suppose—or the salary was too good. If the place did not
 1109
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, he wished to ask the Chief Commissioner of Works, When the Return of Public Monuments and Statues in London, ordered on the 3rd of June, 1861, will be laid upon the table?
 MR. SCULLY  said, he trusted that the clause would pass without any amendment; for he should like to send the Bill back to the House of Lords unaltered. The Lords had sent down a Bill establish-
 1111
 MR. SCULLY  said, there would be no difficulty in protecting mines, whether on the ground or under the ground. He would venture to congratulate the House oh the prospect of so important and useful a Bill becoming law.
 MR. W.B. BEAUMONT  said, he thought that some further protection would be required for the interests of the owners of mines and minerals.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether, on the 28th day of April last, or on any other day, the Tartar Government officials were supplied with arms, ammunition, and military stores from the Arsenal at Hong Kong; whether these munitions of war were sold to the Tartar Government or were a gift; whether, on the evacuation of Canton by the Allies, many hundreds of prisoners in the gaols, amongst whom were the mother and some relatives of the Taeping Emperor, were handed over to the Tartar Governor; and whether any guarantee was obtained that the lives of the mother of the Taeping Emperor and of his relations should not be sacrificed?
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, that if his hon. and learned Friend were right as to the duties proposed to be cast upon the examiner of titles, they were inconsistent in themselves. If he were to compare abstracts of titles with the originals, that was a duty properly devolving upon an attorney's clerk, while the duty of examining titles ought to devolve only upon a conveyancing counsel.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he did not think it would be expedient to fetter the clause with a description of the qualifications of the persons who were to hold office under its operation. It was the wiser course, he thought, to place confidence in the noble Lord at the head of the profession for the time being, with whom the appointment would rest. For his own part, the circumstance that a barrister happened to be of five, or seven, or ten years, by no means appeared to him to, insure his being possessed of any particular qualification; while he was of opinion,
 1112
 MR. HIBBERT  said, he wished to ask whether these appointments were to he made on the passing of the Bill, or only as business required them?
 MR. ROLT  said, he would suggest, whether, as they were to have a registrar, examiners of title, and clerks, it would not be possible for the present to leave out assistant registrars, who would probably receive £1,200 a year each.
 MR. ROLT  said, he wished to move a clause providing a register in which any person claiming any estate, or interest in land, or any encumbrance thereon, should be at liberty to enter his name and address, with the name of the county, parish, and township in which such land was situated, in such form as the Chancellor should order; and that after such entry the Court should not make an order under the Act unless notice of the application had been given to the person who should have made the entry.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he wished to give notice that in Committee on the Fortifications Bill he should move the insertion of a clause or clauses to restrict the application of money which might be raised under the authority of the Act to the completion of such contracts for works as were already made, or such as might hereafter be made, subject to the previous approval of Parliament.
 SIR HERVEY BRUCE  moved another Amendment—
 At end, add "such expense in each case not to exceed ten shillings; and that the guardians of each union in Ireland shall provide for the burial of the dead body of every person dying or found dead within such union whose family or connections are (in the estimation of the guardian or one of the guardians of the electoral division in which such person shall die or be found dead) unable through poverty to bury such dead person, and shall charge the expenses of such burial on the poor rates of the union or of the electoral division, according as such person would have been charged on the rates if he or she had received relief when alive; Provided, That the relieving officer of the union, with the sanction of the guardian or one of the guardians of the electoral division in which such person shall die or be found dead, shall be enabled to proceed at once in the burial of such dead body, giving notice to the guardians of his proceedings therein, and of the expenses incurred by him as soon thereafter as may be practicable in each case, such expense in each case not to exceed seven shillings and six pence."
 LORD NAAS  thought it advantageous that both the Chief and Under Secretaries should be members of the Board.
 LORD NAAS  proposed to continue the Commission for five years longer, instead of three, as at present provided. He thought the Commission had the confidence of the country.
 LORD NAAS  said, that as the Government opposed his suggestion, while admitting it to be a good one, he must withdraw his Amendment.
 LORD NAAS  believed that a union rating would be most detrimental to Ireland.
 LORD NAAS  inquired, If it was the intention of the Government to proceed with the Markets and Fairs (Ireland) Bill and the Births and Deaths Registration (Ireland) Bill this Session?
 LORD NAAS  repeated his Question, and
 GENERAL LINDSAY  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for War, If any any answer has been given to a Memorial presented on the 10th day of January, 1862, by certain Army Medical Officers; and if he has any objection to lay upon the table the Report of the Committee to whom the Memorial was referred?
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that no answer had been given to the Memorial referred to by the hon. and gallant Member. The Report of the Committee to whom the Memorial was referred was of an official and not of a public character, and he was not therefore able to lay it upon the table of the House.
 MR. COWPER  said, it was his intention to proceed with the Bill on Monday next, for which day it now stood on the paper.
 MR. COWPER  said, he certainly was acquainted with a Mr. Higgins, and until the other day he was not aware that there was a second Mr. Higgins; and from what had occurred he did not feel the least desire to increase his acquaintance with the second Mr. Higgins. He would state in a few words what had given rise to this question. Happening to observe Mr. Higgins in the Thames Embankment committee-room, on meeting him subsequently he naturally asked his opinion on what had occurred before the Committee. He then found that Mr. Higgins was very imperfectly acquainted with the evidence which had been given before the Committee. That evidence, the House would hear in mind, was given in public, was taken down by short-hand writers, and was daily published in the newspapers, though of course very imperfectly, because very concisely. He was sure every member of the Committee must desire that correct views of the evidence should go forth, and; that any mistaken notions should be corrected as soon as possible. Knowing that Mr. Higgins was a person of some influence in many circles, and was taking an interest in this question, he (Mr. Cowper) felt desirous that he should not be led away by any erroneous views of the testimony given before the Committee, and thereupon recommended him to get correct impressions by reading the evidence as soon as he could get it. That gentleman naturally expressed a wish for such information. He (Mr. Cowper) might have been considered to have acted improperly, and in breach: of the understanding in respect of the pro-
 1142
 MR. COWPER  hoped the House would permit him to say a word of explanation in reply to a question put to him by the right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken. The right hon. Gentleman said he would put him on his defence. The right hon. Gentleman, being personally interested in this question, as occupier of one of the houses in the locality, might have reasons for attacking him (Mr. Cowper) and making him a defendant; when, according to the rules of the House, he was unable to answer the right hon. Gentleman's charge fully, but he should be prepared to meet it on the proper occasion. In answer, however, to the question addressed to him, he could assure the right hon. Gentleman that the letter which had given rise to the noble Lord's question never reached the Mr. Higgins for whom it was intended, but was intercepted by the other Mr. Higgins, and therefore could have had no influence on the gentleman to whom it was addressed, in respect of anything which he had said or written, An extract had been read from some comments on the proceedings of the Committee that appeared on the 23rd of June; but he could assure the right hon. Gentleman, that as his letter to Mr. Higgins was written subsequently to that date, it could not have influenced him in anything he did before the 23rd of June.
 MR. COWPER  said, that if the right hon. Gentleman would look at the bluebook, he would see it staled that the plan would be delivered as soon as it was ready. It was in the printer's hands, and it was not his fault if there had been any delay. All the correspondence referred to in the decision of the Committee had been produced:—at least, he was not aware of any further correspondence; but if there were such he should be ready to produce it.
 MR. SOMERSET BEAUMONT  said, that he could not refuse to comply with the request of the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs. At the same time, the Session drawing to a close, and the matter being a very important one, he should await with some anxiety the result of the negotiations.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  was understood to state that the Report of the Commissioners was being prepared, and that it would soon be in the hands of hon. Members.
 LORD STANLEY  said, that as a member of the Commission which sat four years ago to consider whether, and in what manner, the Royal and Company's armies in India should be amalgamated, he then expressed the opinion, which he did not now hesitate to repeat, that no great importance could be attached to vague general estimates of the number of troops which might he required some years hence, pier-haps in totally different circumstances, for the defence of India, If there was one time at which it was especially difficult to
 1165 1166 1167
 MR. GRANT DUFF  rose to call the attention of the House to the expediency of transferring the seat of Government in India to some place more eligible than Calcutta. When they had so recently laid that great man, Lord Canning, in the grave, he thought it was not inopportune to ask Her Majesty's Government whether it was not possible to make arrangements for carrying on the central administration of India in some spot which would induce a smaller sacrifice of European life. If the death of Lord Canning had been an isolated event, no argument could have been drawn from it, but it was by no means an isolated event. He would refer the House to a letter which appeared a few days since in the leading journal, signed "Mountaineer," in which it was said, "Wilson, Ritchie, and Lord Canning are dead; Mr. Laing is ill; Mr. Beadon has been indisposed; Colonel Baird Smith is dead, Lady Canning is dead, Lady Wells is dead, Lord and Lady Dalhousie are dead." It was not surprising that Calcutta should be unhealthy, standing as it did upon a delta, with salt water on one side and a lake upon the other, raised but a little above the level of the sea, with a supply of water which, if copious, was far from wholesome. All deltas were unhealthy, and the only great city so situated besides Calcutta was the notoriously unhealthy city of New Orleans. Sir R. Martin spoke of Calcutta as enjoying three seasons—the hot season, during which all new arrivals suffered; the cold season, in which all old Indians suffered; and the wet season, in which everybody Buffered. "It was true that it might
 1190 1191
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, that all must regret the risk to which our officials were exposed by service in India in consequence of the unhealthiness of the climate; but this risk was not confined to Calcutta, which was not the most peculiarly unhealthy part of our Indian Empire. Al-
 1194 "I should not advise a change of the seat of Government from Calcutta. With the prospect of having railways and electric telegraphs, and also looking to the other great consideration, that the present seat of Government is not liable to be attacked, is close to the sea, ready to receive reinforcements, and far removed from those emergencies and crises which will occur in India, such as occurred on the North Western frontier when I was there, the further the Government is kept from these emergencies the better for the tranquillity of India." 1195
 MR. ELLICE (St. Andrew's)  said, he wished to bring to the attention of the House the fact that a clause in the Piers and Harbours Act Amendment Bill, which had been defeated by a considerable majority, was re-introduced  totidem verbis 1197
 MR. BLLICE (St. Andrew's)  moved to omit the 13th paragraph of the schedule. The clause as it stood gave the Woods and Forests power to interfere with works which the Admiralty and the Board of Trade had sanctioned. This was, in other words, giving them power to extort money from those who were making these harbours in the interest of the public.
 MR. PEEL  supported the clause, and said, it had been framed in accordance with the Lands Clauses Consolidation Act, and that there could be no sound objection to it.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the proper mode of proceeding, if hon. Members thought that Parliament had given too much power to the Woods and Forests, was to introduce a new Bill to repeal or amend the Act under which those provisional orders were made.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  seconded the Motion.
 MR. KINNAIRD  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. KINNAIRD  agreed with every word that had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down; and with regard to the views of the hon. Member who introduced the subject, although he believed that his intention was good, and that his only wish was to economize the resources of India, he was inclined to think that the time had not arrived when they could with safety act contrary to
 1164
 MR. KINNAIRD  hoped that the Government would give way on this point, as it was one on which there could be no doubt.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, that the adoption of the Amendment rendered necessary the omission of four other consequential clauses.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, the Woods and Forests wanted to attach to their consent a condition by virtue of which they should have the right of approval of the works which were to be constructed under the provisional orders; and what his hon. Friend wished was, that the Committee should say whether the Woods and Forests were right in attaching that condition. He did not think either the interests of the public or the rights of the Crown required such a condition. In many cases, moreover, it was monstrous to require the consent of the Woods and Forests, for the property did not always belong to the Crown.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  hoped that this
 1198
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, that when this Bill was being referred to a Select Committee he took the liberty of suggesting, that in order to secure impartiality, the Committee should be selected in the same way that Committees on private Bills were selected. He got no support for that suggestion; but he thought what they had just heard was sufficient to show that it would have been well had it been adopted. He would only say that the sooner the House changed its practice in appointing Committees on hybrid Bills the better.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, there was no analogy between a provisional order which was made by the Board of Trade, on an  ex parte
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  assured his hon. and gallant Friend that the Admiralty had given the most careful consideration to the case of these officers, and the more so because it had been stated that the Order in Council by which their positions were fixed was not clearly worded. Did the hon. and gallant Gentleman suppose that the Admiralty had laid an unfair statement of the case before the Law Officers? [Sir JOHN HAY said he had not made any such imputation.] He was glad that his gallant Friend did not impugn the honesty of the Admiralty. The Admiralty had given the Law Officers every information in their power; they stated the case fully, for as well as against the captains; and the Law Officers, after carefully going into the facts, gave their opinion. It was not usual to produce the opinion of the Law Officers, and he regretted that circumstance in the present instance.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he would not allude further to that matter. He would merely say that there had been a great misapprehension with regard to it. But there was a story current in the House, which had reached every member of the Embankment Committee, and he thought it only fair and just to the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Commissioner of Works to relate the story to the House, in order that he might have the opportunity of explaining it, and, he trusted, of denying its accuracy. He had already given the proper notice to the right hon. Gentleman in private, in order that he might come down prepared with an answer. It appeared that a letter was written by the right hon. Gentleman, directed to a Mr. Higgins, containing minutes of evidence and information of what occurred in the Committee, that gentleman's attention being attracted to special passages thus— I wish you particularly to look at this part of the evidence; I wish you particularly to look at such a question asked by such a member." It sometimes happened, as they all knew, that the post did not always deliver letters with accuracy, and accordingly this letter, directed to one Mr. Higgins, went to another Mr. Higgins, a relation of the late Lord Chancellor, This Mr. Higgins read the letter, and, not knowing why he should be pestered with the proceedings of the Thames Embankment Committee, handed it to a member of that Committee, who told him to send it back to the right hon. Gentleman, stating that there must have been some mistake, and that he had sent the letter to the wrong Mr. Higgins. He did so, and the right hon. Gentleman accepted the letter. Full leave had been given by Mr. Higgins to
 1141
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, that in accordance with the opinions of several hon. Members of standing and influence in that House, he was about to take a course which he was aware was unusual, and for which he must ask the indulgence of the House. To put himself in order, he intended to conclude with a Motion. This Bill, which was to be brought on upon Monday next, and directly after the debate on Fortifications was concluded, involved matters of the greatest and gravest consequence. The evidence which had been taken before the Embankment Committee, which filled a thick folio volume, had been placed in the hands of Members only the day before; the Bill, which contained 80 clauses, had been sent round to Members only that morning; and yet they were expected to go into Committee upon it on Monday, after the debate upon Fortifications.
 1139 1140
 MR. AYRTON  said, it had been stated that the Committee had deliberated on a Resolution which was not reported in the proceedings among the Resolutions considered by the Committee. He wished to ask the Speaker who was responsible for the non-appearance of the Resolution in
 1150
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  paid, as the noble Lord seemed to admit that there had been a misunderstanding, that circumstance should operate in favour of these officers.
 MR. FINLAY  said, that if the Bill were extended to Scotland, it would in juriously affect the interests both of the public and the proprietors in that country.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he was glad to hear the noble Lord's admission that the Crown held the foreshores for the public interest.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, the Commissioners of Woods and Forests ought not to be allowed to have the power, or allowed that interference over the harbours which this clause would give them.
 MR. LAYARD  said, that his hon. Friend the Member for Newcastle (Mr. S. Beaumont), who had given notice of his intention to bring under the consideration of the House the failure of the negotiations with the Belgium Government for a commercial treaty, had once already postponed his Motion for papers. He had now to ask his hon. Friend once more to defer his remarks, as a discussion of the subject at present would only prejudice the object which his hon. Friend had in view.
 MR. BUXTON  rose, pursuant to notice, to call attention to the amount of European Forces maintained in India. He believed, that the more any one studied Indian affairs, the more profoundly convinced he would become of the truth of a remark made by Mr. Kaye, the celebrated advocate of the East India Company, that "it would be well that it should be clearly understood how, at the bottom of all our misdoings, and all our shortcomings, is the miserable want of money;" and that it was absolutely impossible for us to have an overflowing exchequer, and avoid the disas-
 1153 1154 1155 priori 1156 1157 1158 1159 1160 1161 ipse dixit
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, that it was the intention of the Government to proceed with this Bill at a morning sitting; but as hon. Gentlemen would be engaged at the Sessions next week, he would defer the sitting to a later period.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, the cases referred to by the hon. Member for Windsor had no connection with the subject before the House, nor, in point of fact, had they anything to do with the Indian army. Whatever these men, who were both in regiments of the line, might be entitled to was adjudicated to them by the Commissioners at Chelsea under the pension and gratuity regulations of the British army. The Indian finances contributed a certain gross sum in respect of these soldiers, but with the distribution of it the Indian Government had nothing to do. Consequently, these cases could not be brought forward as cases of grievance against the Indian Government. The hon. Member for Carrickfergus (Mr. Torrens) had asked him to state the number of young officers who had been sent out to India of late years. He could not at once give the numbers. It would be remembered that it was the practice of the Court of Directors and the Secretary of State to give nominations to young men who educated themselves for the purpose of going into the Indian service, and who took up their commissions after a certain interval. When he assumed office three years ago, he immediately put a stop to that system, and neither he nor any Member of his Council had since given a single appointment. At the same time, while putting an end to the practice altogether, he felt that he could not, without a breach of faith towards those young men to whom promises
 1169 1170 1171 minimum
 LORD FERMOY  strongly opposed the Amendment. That the guardians should be able to judge of the circumstances of the family in all such cases was quite impossible. No one with a knowledge of Ireland could sanction the proposal.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he did not think the subject on which the right hon. Gentleman had just spoken was one which either he or the House ought to treat with levity. The right hon. Gentleman said he communicated information to Mr. Higgins as one of the public. He asked him now to answer, in the face of the public, whether or not he communicated information to Mr. Higgins because he was a writer in  The Times The Times 1143 "The real reason put forward by counsel before the Committee was that the Duke of Buccleuch and one or two other noblemen and gentlemen who live between Whitehall Stairs and Westminster-bridge, wish to enjoy all the advantages afforded to them by a profuse expenditure of the public money in purifying  The Times great. laughter The Times "It appears that these noblemen and gentlemen hold Crown leases of the ground on which their houses are built. It is not pretended that these leases would prevent the construction of the proposed public quay; but it is pretended that a certain honourable understanding existed when the said leases were granted or renewed, which ought to protect their holders from such an innovation." 1144 1145
 COLONEL GREVILLE  moved an Amendment to the effect that the Chief and Under Secretaries of Ireland shall cease to be members of the Irish Poor Law Commission. He could not understand on what principle they were members of the Commission. When the Poor Law was first established in Ireland, only one of these officers was a member of the Commission. The result of their sitting on the Board was, that they had frequently to review, and to sit as judges upon, orders emanating from themselves.
 COLONEL GREVILLE  said, he had no objection to withdraw that part of his Amendment which referred to the Chief Secretary. But he had a very strong-opinion that a Roman Catholic should be a member of the Board, and he wished to have an expression of the opinion of the Government.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, the proposal advocated by the hon. Member for Carlisle (Mr. Lawson) was to modify the system of licensing the sale of liquors, which had been in existence for a long period, and the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Ker Seymer) himself admitted that it might be improved. But the hon. Gentleman, with his great influence and ability, had been trifling with the subject. There could be no doubt that one of the greatest evils of the day was the facility afforded for obtaining intoxicating drinks by the humbler classes of society. It was the cause of nearly all the misery which existed in this country. He was willing that the decision of the question should be left to the drunkards themselves, being assured that in their sober moments they would vote in favour of any measure which would prevent them from doing that which destroyed their character, and deprived their families of comfort, and who, he believed, would earnestly desire to be relieved from the temptations of the beer and liquor shops.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  said, it was most illogical to suppose that a union rating would check evictions. If anything, he thought it would encourage them.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  said, that a short time ago a labourer died on his estate. He sent for the son, and told him that he wished the man to be buried respectably, and therefore he would pay the expense; and he authorized the son to send in the charge to him, and he would pay it. The funeral took place, and the bill came in. The items were so much for coffin, amp;c.; and then came — "Whisky and tobacco, £14 0 s d
 MR. PAULL  said, the Woods and Forests would give their sanction, upon condition that a clause which would protect their rights was introduced in the particular Acts. They did not assert their claims beforehand. What they said was, "We give our sanction to your proposed plans; but we reserve to ourselves the right, when you come to execute those plans, to put in our claims." The real question
 1200
 MR. PAULL  said, that the question before the House was not whether the Woods and Forests should exercise the right referred to, but whether a Bill to confirm certain provisional orders should pass. If
 1199
 MR. KER SEYMER  said, he should be prepared to discuss the question more fully when the hon. Gentleman moved the second reading of the Permissive Bill. It had long been prepared. It had been accepted at public meetings; and if the feeling in favour of the measure was as strong as the hon. Gentleman represented, the House of Commons, unreformed though it was, would not be deaf to the voice of public opinion. The gentlemen out of doors who advocated the Maine Law were not satisfied with the position which they held. The organ of the Alliance attempted last week to mislead its readers. He observed a paragraph in it, headed "Mr. Lawson's Motion," in which Members of Parliament were urged to be in their places to support the Motion, and ladies, it said, would do noble service, too, by writing to M.P.'s. The gentleman were well versed in the arts of agitation, but, unfortunately, there was no Motion before the House. The hon. Member on Friday night—the  omnium gatherum 1185 1186 odium theologicum 1187
 MR. KER SEYMER  remarked that he had not received a satisfactory answer to his question as to when the right hon. Gentleman meant to bring forward the Bill. The right hon. Gentleman said he would bring it on after the Fortifications Bill on Monday; but as that discussion would occupy a long time, he hoped,  now
 MR. KER SEYMER  asked the First Commissioner of Works, When he intended to proceed with the Committee on the Thames Embankment Bill?
 MR. CHILDERS  said, if the Committee consented to the clause, they would be acting directly in the teeth of the Act of last Session, and of the decision of the House in the present Session also.
 MR. BUTT  said, he wished he ask Mr. Attorney General, When it way be
 1151
 MR. BUTT  said, he did not wish to raise that question; but he could put his hand upon cases in which the Poor Law Commissioners had grossly interfered in religious matters, by which great dissatisfaction had been produced. If voting for a five years' continuance of the Commission was to be taken as a vote of confidence in the Poor Law Board, he should give every opposition to the proposition in his power.
 MR. M'CANN  said, that the town he represented was also filled with paupers, who had been evicted by landlords of the surrounding districts.
 MR. M'CANN  said, there was no necessity for having the Under Secretary a member of the Board.
 MR. BAGWELL  was in favour of a union rating, but he thought it was too large a question to be discussed on an Amendment at so late an hour.
 MR. BLAKE  moved to insert, after the word "Act," the words "shall be charged to the union at large," and leave out to the end of the clause. The town of Waterford, which he represented, was flooded by paupers who had been evicted from the surrounding districts.
 MR. BLAKE  said, he trusted that the concluding request of the hon. Baronet would be complied with by Her Majesty's Government. They had interfered on behalf of Spaniards who, as was alleged, had been persecuted on religious grounds, though, in fact, political questions were mixed up in the matter; while, no doubt in the case of the Jews, the persons who had been ill-used had been persecuted from the senseless aversion of the Russians to the Hebrew people. He visited the Russian empire about ten years ago, and could testify to the existence of the persecuting spirit which had been referred to by the hon. Baronet. Upon the slightest pretence prosecutions were instituted against Jews, and he had seen many of them sent to Siberia on suspicion of having committed offences, some of which were of a very trifling character. On one occasion he saw fifty Jewish youths sent in chains to the Russian navy, because some people in the village in which they resided were suspected of having been engaged in some smuggling transactions. Great hopes had been entertained that on the accession of the present Emperor changes favourable to the Jews would be made, and he much regretted that those hopes had not been realized. He hoped that a remonstrance from Her Majesty's Government would produce some effect, or at any rate that the strong expression of the feeling of that House might have some effect.
 MR. BRADY  said, the Under Secretary had attended the Board only nine times in four years.
 MR. SPEAKER : The Committee clerk attending the Committee is responsible for taking down everything that occurs in a Committee.
 MR. SPEAKER : I must remind the noble Lord that it is an order of this House that a matter standing for discussion on a future day should not be made the subject of discussion, especially in the manner which the noble Lord is now adopting.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member cannot enter into the subject of the Bill.
 MR. SPEAKER : The time to discuss the Bill is when the Question is put that the Bill be now read. The Question now is to fix the time to which it is to be postponed.
 MR. GEORGE  proposed after "union at large" to insert—
 "Provided, That every person so relieved who shall have resided for the period of thirty months within the five years next before the commencement of such relief in some one electoral division in said union, shall be charged and chargeable to such electoral division in which he has so resided, although he may not have resided in said union for the full period of five years next before the commencement of such relief as aforesaid."
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he wished to ask the President of the Poor Law Board, Whether it is still his intention to proceed with the Parochial Assessments Bill during the present Session?
 MR. HASSARD  thought it was a fallacy to assert that the Crown was in all cases the owner of the foreshore.
 MR. BLACKBURN  trusted the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for St. Andrew's (Mr. Ellice) would be agreed to.
 MR. MORE O'FERRALL  said, that Ireland was unfortunately governed by boards, and he thought it desirable that the Members of the Government, who had to review the acts of these boards, should not be members of them.
 MR. TORRENS  thought the question of army reduction in India might safely be left in the hands of the Executive. But he wished to obtain from the right lion. Gentleman the Secretary for India some explanation of the circumstances under which, during the years 1858 and 1861 inclusive, upwards of 400 young officers were sent to join the army in Bengal, though the greater number of the regiments they were to have commanded had mutinied; the officers, moreover, who had remained after the defection of those troops being more than sufficient to command the remnant of the Native force. To Madras 88 young officers were sent during the same period, though a reduction of the Native force was contemplated; and 120 others were despatched to Bombay. He could imagine nothing more miserable than the position of a European officer in India without any regular employment, and in his opinion it almost amounted to cruelty to send out young officers without there being duties on which to employ them. The Government had stated that 190,000 Minie rifles had been set apart for the army of India, which was a number far in excess of the European force there; but he hoped to hear that none of these arms had been put into the hands of the Native soldiers.
 MR. GREGSON  said, that having resided for some years in Calcutta, he could speak from personal experience of its climate, which he thought had been represented as worse than it really was. He fully shared the feeling of universal regret excited by the untimely deaths of the last two Governor Generals, which the hon. Gentleman had instanced as proving the deleterious effects of the climate; but he (Mr. Gregson) believed they were only isolated cases. Lord Dalhousie had suffered from a constitutional complaint, and had worked very hard—perhaps too hard—in this country before proceeding to India. Lord Canning, he understood, was perfectly well when he arrived at Marseilles on his way home; but he caught a very severe cold, and having undergone immense anxiety and some exhaustion in India, his system was unable to resist the attack. The deaths of these distinguished persons were therefore rather due to the wear and tear of mind, occasioned by the labours and responsibilities of office, than to the
 1192 The Times 1193
 MR. CONOLLY  opposed the clause, believing that it would operate greatly against the interests of Ireland. The effect of the clause would strongly tend towards union rating.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, there was a general Act of Parliament which required that no provisional order should be made by the Board of Trade for the construction of a new harbour, or the improvement of an old one, without the consent of the Woods and Forests. It might be right or wrong that the Commissioners should have such a power, but, in making the provisional orders which the present Bill was intended to confirm, the Board of Trade had no option but to proceed according to the directions of the Act of Parliament. The House, in fact, might as well reject a private Bill because its promoters had complied with the Standing Orders as agree to the Amendment of his hon. Friend.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that after the expression of opinion just given by the Committee, he would omit the part in each of the other provisional orders in the Bill similar to that which had just been struck out.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that the Board of Trade had acted strictly in accordance with the Act of Parliament, which required the consent of the Woods and Forests to be given. The Woods and Forests had given their consent with a condition; but if the Committee did away with the condition, then the Woods and Forests could not be said to have given their consent. The condition was not an unreasonable one, and was in accordance with Parliamentary practice, because it was inserted in every private Bill.
 MR. SCULLY  was in favour of union rating.
 MR. SCULLY  complained, that the whole of the five Poor Law Commissioners were Protestant, and four of them Englishmen.
 MR. SCULLY  then proposed another Amendment, at the end of the clause to add—
 "Provided, however, That the disability consequent upon dismissal from office shall apply only to dismissal for a criminal offence."
 MR. SCULLY  said, he wished to call the attention of the House to the fact that all the rows this Session had been English rows. ["Oh! "] If the House did not interrupt him, he would not detain them long, for he had no wish to spoil sport, though he should be glad when it was all settled. He had read the evidence of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Stroud (Mr. Horsman), and the Duke of Buccleuch, and he observed that the right hon. Member for Stroud disclaimed all private interest. The Duke of Buccleuch's evidence was to the same effect, except that he said he would stand on his rights. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cowper) had insinuated that a private and confidential matter had been communicated by him in a letter to Mr. Higgins, the information contained in which had been made use of by the person into whose hands it fell for the purpose of attacking the Committee. The Mr. Higgins into whose hands the letter fell was not, however, the Mr. Higgins for whom the letter was intended. Now, it had happened to himself occasionally that letters not intended for him had fallen into his hands. He had considered that in such cases it was his business to forget everything that he had read in those letters, and to send them either to the person who wrote them or the person to whom they were addressed. He could not, therefore, understand how this letter could be made use of in the House of Commons.
 MR. COGAN  proposed an Amendment in line 17, by the addition of the words, "with the approval of the board of guardians;" the object being that the Poor Law Commissioners should not have the exclusive power of dismissing officers. The clause provided that officers dismissed should not be eligible for re-election for five years.
 MR. GARNETT  hoped the right hon. Gentleman would have a plan showing Mr. Pennethorne's diversion of the road at Whitehall Stairs, prepared before Thursday, and that he would also lay upon the table a sketch of the works submitted to the Select Committee.
 MAJOR PARKER  desired to call atten-
 1168 d
 MR. VANSITTART  said, that as he had taken no part in the discussions which
 1162 1163
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  moved an Amendment—
 To leave out all after "that" to the end of the clause, and insert "the relieving officer of the union, with the sanction of the guardian or one of the guardians of the electoral division in which such person shall be found dead, shall proceed without delay in the burial of such dead body, giving notice to the guardians of his proceedings therein, and of the expenses incurred by him as soon thereafter as may be practicable in each case, such expense in each case not to exceed seven shillings and six pence."
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID :  * 1172 1173 "He is like the man who enticed away Maslow, only the other had a rough voice, as if he had a cold; and, besides, this one has not such a fiat nose as he. Otherwise, he is like the other in stature and hair, but the other spoke good Russion, and this one has a lisp." 1174 1175 1176 1177 1178 1179 1180
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, as there is no Motion before the House, I should hardly have thought it necessary to trouble the House at all upon this question, if it were not that I might be supposed to be wanting in respect to my hon. Friend and to those of whose opinions he is the exponent. To a certain degree I entirely sympathize with them in the premisses
 1188 1189
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he believed, as far as his right hon. Friend's personal convenience was concerned, he would be glad to be freed from the duties attending the office; but he thought it was, on the whole, desirable that he should be a member of the Commission.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  thought the proposal inconvenient, and hoped the noble Lord would not press it.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, it would be in the recollection of the House that the claims of certain Reserved Officers of the Navy had been occasionally discussed, and a good case appeared to have been made out in their favour and some high legal authorities had given an opinion in their favour. The Admiralty, however, had submitted their claims to the consideration of the Law Officers of the Crown who had decided against them. He thought the gentlemen whose claims were thus decided upon were entitled to know what case had been submitted to the Law Officers, or to have a Select Committee appointed to see upon what grounds the decision to which he referred had been given. The captains themselves had submitted their case to very high legal authority, whose opinion was quite different from that of the Law Officers of the Crown. He begged, therefore, to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the case of the reserved Captains.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  rose to address the House, but was stopped by cries of "Spoke, spoke."
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that as a member of the Committee, he must express his opinion that the fact of the right hon. Gentleman, as Chairman of the Committee, having corresponded with a gentleman who was well known to he a correspondent of  The Times 1147
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  expressed a hope that the right hon. President of the Poor Law Board would fix some other day than Tuesday next for the Committee on the Poor Law Assessments Bill, inasmuch as many of the country Gentlemen would on that day be attending the Quarter Sessions.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : Why not, Sir?
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, it was the anxious desire of the traders interested that the Markets and Fairs Bill should be proceeded with, and he should do all he could to proceed with it. He should fix the Bill for Monday next.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  thought the longer period might be better for the working of the measure; but he was bound to adhere to the period fixed by the Bill, and hoped the Committee would support him in it.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that like his right hon. predecessor in the office which he held, he should have no objection to see a Roman Catholic a member of the Board; and when a vacancy arose
 1135
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  moved the following clause:—
 "All enactments contained in the Acts in force for the relief of the destitute poor in Ireland, which relate to the Chargeability of persons relieved under those Acts upon unions and electoral divisions, are hereby repealed; and, in lieu thereof, It is Enacted, That every person so relieved after the passing of this Act who shall have resided in the union for five years next before the commencement of such relief, and shall also have resided in the course of that period for two years in some one electoral division of the union, shall be charged to the electoral division in which he shall have been longest resident, and for not less than two years as aforesaid; and in case he shall have been so resident for an equal period in
 1136
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, it was quite impossible for the Government to make any arrangement when four hours were occupied that day in discussing two clauses of a Bill. It was his intention to proceed with the Markets and Fairs Bill, which was desired by the general trade of Ireland, although certain monopolists wished to continue the present state of things.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he could not agree to the Amendment of the hon. Member. He thought it was desirable that there should be a representative of the Poor Law Board with a seat in the House of Commons, as was the case in England.
 MR. LAWSON  said, he rose to call attention to the general dissatisfaction existing throughout the country regarding the Laws for licensing Houses for the sale of spirituous and fermented Liquors, and to the necessity for the immediate revision thereof; also to the expediency and justice of permitting the Inhabitants of any parish or place to decide whether the common sale of such liquors shall be carried on within the locality. The question on which he wished to address the House was one of considerable importance. It was generally felt that the existing licensing system required considerable alteration, and during the present Session an immense number of people had petitioned the House, stating the grievance under which they lay, and suggesting the remedies which they desired to see adopted. What he desired to do was to explain that grievance, and to point out the remedies referred to. The licensing system, in its present state, could hardly be defended by any one. Almost all the hon. Gentlemen who might be considered authorities in the House had spoken strongly against it, and their opinions would carry more weight than anything he could say. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer said, two years ago, that his opinion was very unfavourable to the present system under which the drinking-houses were licensed and managed in this country, and he went on to say that the present system imposed upon magistrates duties which it was impossible for them to discharge. The Secretary of State said, alluding to the evidence given before the Committee in 1834, that a more efficient control ought to be given over the licences of both classes of houses, meaning public-houses and beer-houses. The Chairman of the Poor Law Board (Mr. Villiers), who was the Chairman of that Committee, said that the magistrates themselves admitted that they had no proper evidence to guide their opinion as to whether they should grant licences. Mr. W. Brown, who was at the time Member for South Lancashire, said that magistrates, magistrates' clerks, licensed victuallers, and brewers, wereall demoralized by the licensing system. Thirty years ago, when the Beer Act was introduced, it was said that that measure would give working men good beer, and that it would take them from dens of infamy to places where they would enjoy
 1182 1183 "There are thirty-four parishes in Scotland without a public-house, and the effect upon the parishioners is that they have not a penny of poor rates in one of them." s d "The returns made to your Committee's inquiries clearly prove that the intemperance of any neighbourhood is clearly proportioned to the number of its spirit licences, so that where there are no public-houses nor any shops for selling spirits there ceases to be any intoxication." 1184
 MR. ADAM  said, he was glad that this subject had been brought forward, though it was not likely to be attended with any immediate practical result. No one would deny, that if we had just obtained possession of India, Calcutta was the last place that would have been selected for the capital. It was the most distant point of the empire and the most difficult of access; and although the hon. Member for Lancaster (Mr. Gregson) had given so glowing an account of its salubrity that any one would be led to believe that it was the healthiest place in the world, and that hon. Members who were suffering from the labours of the Session could not do better than hasten to Calcutta to seek the restoration of their health, he could hardly admit the truth of the picture. Readmitted that the question of the seat of Government must be decided, not on considerations of health alone, but also by reasons of policy; and he thought that the question of distance alone was sufficient to settle the question against Calcutta. In his opinion, no better place could be chosen than Poonah, the climate of which, although like that of all other parts of India, uncomfortably hot during the summer, was during the cold weather and the rains most charming. He did not wish to press the Government for any immediate decision upon this subject, but he hoped that they would take it into their most serious consideration.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  cordially assented to the opinion of the right hon. Gentleman, that these Committees ought to be chosen in some different manner. As an old Member of that House, he had had frequent occasions to serve on Committees, but he had never suffered so much pain as from the mode in which the business before them was conducted. A long discussion must take place when this question came on, and as the noble Lord at the head of the Government had assented to postpone the matter until Thursday, a debate at the present moment was unnecessary. He thought, however, he had heard the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cowper) contradict an hon. Member on the Opposition benches as to some proceedings before the Committee with regard to a portion of the correspondence which had not been laid before the House. The decision of the Committee was solemnly taken, and was unanimous that this correspondence should appear in the form of an appendix, and that the alternative plan which the Treasury correspondence contemplated would be laid before Parliament. That correspondence had been promised, but did not appear in the Report; and he trusted
 1149
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  observed that there was no greater waste of time
 1148
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I have to apologize to my hon. Friend (Sir F. Goldsmid) for not having replied to his observations when he sat down; but I was waiting for another Question, from the hon. Member for Chichester (Mr. Freeland), which I now understand is, on account of the lateness of the hour, not to be put to me to-night. My hon. Friend drew the attention of the House to the case of two Jewish soldiers in the Russian service, who, according to his view, had been very unjustly punished for crimes of which they had not been guilty. I quite agree with the observation of my hon. Friend, that although it is not desirable that this House should, without some strong cause, offer opinions as to matters which pass in other countries, yet there are cases which fully justify such a course—cases like those which he has mentioned. As regards broad principles of government, by which large masses of men have their interests affected, it is easy to express an opinion; but when you come to scrutinize particular instances in which individuals have been brought before a judicial tribunal for an offence of which they were supposed to be guilty, and begin to discuss the value of the evidence and the justice of the sentence, this House, even in cases which occur in this country, feels a disinclination to pronounce a decision; because, whatever opinion we may entertain upon the general view of the matter, so much depends on the details of the evidence, which can only be judged accurately by the tribunal adjudicating upon the case, that it is exceedingly difficult for the House to be very satisfied that any opinion they may give will be right. With regard to this particular case, our Ambassador at St. Petersburg was instructed by ray noble Friend to make inquiries, in order to ascertain the history of the case. Of course, he could only institute those inquiries with great delicacy and forbearance; and he was informed that these persons, whether rightly or not I do not pretend to
 1196
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that nothing was more generally admitted than that the system of conditional orders was a very great improvement on the old system. It applied to enclosures, piers, and harbours—it saved a great deal of expense, facilitated public improvements, and was a great accommodation to all parties interested. With respect to the course pursued by his right hon. Friend (Mr. M. Gibson), he had no choice in the matter, as the law required that the assent of the Woods and Forests should be obtained. The property was vested in the Crown, but he quite admitted that it was held for the public; it was necessary, therefore, to see that no use was made of it which might be detrimental to the public interest. The Woods and Forests required a very small acknowledgment, not at all a heavy tax upon the parties concerned, but by way of admission that it was Crown property; and he thought that in so doing they were only maidtaining a right intrusted to them.
 MR. COWPER  said, there was no objection whatever to the Motion of the hon. Baronet; he only hoped the hon. Baronet understood that there was no ambiguity under the name of works—that under "works" were not included the proceedings relating to Bills and Reports which were in his previous notice. To the amended notice there was no objection whatever.
 COLONEL KNOX  said, that as the noble Lord had alluded to him as the person who had made the communication respecting the letter to Mr. Higgins, he wished to say, that having heard the rumour, he came down to the House, but was accidentally too late to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether he had written a certain letter to Mr. Higgins. He had no further knowledge of the circumstance than that he was called out of a club by Mr. Higgins, who waited to see him, and who stated that he had received the letter in question, containing enclosures, with the seal of the Woods and Works, and that he thought the members of the Committee ought to be made acquainted with the circumstance. He (Colonel Knox) thereupon told it to the noble Lord (Lord K. Montagu). As the noble Lord had stated that there was a meeting of gentlemen at six o'clock on Friday evening to determine what to do in the matter, he had only to state that he was not invited, although, under the circumstances, it would only perhaps have been fair if he had been asked to attend. As the noble Lord had mentioned his name as his authority, he begged to say that he could not endorse the statement he had made as being accurate in any way. He thought that the noble Lord after what had taken place might have clone him the honour to communicate with him before he used his name. Mr. Higgins had sought him (Colonel Knox); he had not sought Mr. Higgins. He had told the noble Lord the story because it had been related to him without any conditions of secrecy.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  moved the second reading of this Bill.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  moved, as an Amendment—
 "That there be laid before this House a Return showing the original and every subsequent Estimate for each work recommended by the Defences Commissioners; the amount of any Contract for each work; what proportion of each work is completed; and what inconvenience or injury, if any, to the Public Service would result from the postponement of any of the projected works." 1223 1224 1225 1226 1227
 LORD ADOLPHUS VANE TEMPEST  said, he wished to correct a misapprehension that this matter referred to land defences only. The fact was, that this was an ever-changing scheme; at first both sea and land defences were combined in the measure, but in the abandonment of the Spithead forts the Government had given up what, in the views of the promoters of the scheme, might be called the main part of the scheme. He really thought they ought to have more information as to what the precise intentions of the Government were. They were talking of fortifications as if the events of the last few years had brought them no instruction. Was it the defences on the north side of Sebastopol that kept off the allies? It was true that, assisted by the sunken ships and boom across the harbour, Fort Constantine succeeded in keeping the allied fleet out, but would it have done so had the vessels been iron-plated? Were not the defences the Alma earthworks? and unless the flanks of the Russians had been turned, the allied army might have been detained longer in front of those works. The works, again, at Sebastopol, which would always have an historic name, were not fortifications, but earthworks—namely, the Malakoff and the Redan. Then, again, the works at New Orleans were earthworks, hastily thrown up for the occasion; and if they had been defended by an efficient army, the Northeners would never have taken them. The works at Manassas were of the same description, and he could speak from personal observation of their efficiency. He certainly entertained the view that the time had gone by for these expensive fortifications; he thought the Government had done right in not coming to any full determination in respect of the Spithead forts; he believed I their postponement would be preparatory to their abandonment; but, whatever was the decision upon them, he protested against these costly land fortifications when the weight of evidence went to prove that the money could be far better spent, and was much more required in bringing our navy up to a proper state of efficiency, and in iron-plating ships for batteries to defend our shores. He implored the House to pause before they expended enormous sums of money upon these fortifications, which, as he contended,
 1239
 SIR EDWARD COLEBKOOKE  thought that as the hon. and gallant Member (Sir F. Smith) was opposed, not to fortifications altogether, but only to certain parts of the scheme of the Government, he should have raised his objections in Committee rather than on the present occasion. He therefore hoped that the House would at once proceed to consider the measure, especially as there seemed no room to doubt that a large majority of the House were in favour of fortifications in the abstract. He hoped, however, that the Government would furnish farther information as to the present position of the works, and as to the propriety of abandoning a certain portion of them. He was not prepared to stop at once a large series of works which had been recommended by two Commissions, and assented to by a large majority of the House, and some of which were very far advanced; but, at the same time, he agreed with the hon. and gallant Member in condemning the works at Portsdown Hill. Even if they were considerably advanced, he believed it would be better to spend money in doing away with them than in completing them, for they would only be a source of weakness. There were a number of important questions just now in suspense which materially affected the principle of our defences. There was, for instance, the question whether the arsenals should be converted into fortifications of great strength, and whether iron ships ought to be built in private yards on the Mersey, Clyde, and Thames, or in the Royal Dockyards. Numerous experiments were also in progress, especially in reference to artillery and iron ship building, since these works were recommended, which materially altered the aspect of affairs. But the naval question must always have precedence over the question of fortifications; because even if we had to rely upon our military means, we must always have vessels to transport them. But the works at Portsdown Hill, and indeed generally at Portsmouth, were projected on the most extravagant scale. They would extend over an immense area, and would require an armament of 1,000 guns and a garrison of 20,000 men. Moreover, the position was cut in two by an arm of the sea, so that after all its defence would, in a great measure, depend on our naval resources. Against the sea-works he had nothing to say. It was absurd to
 1240
 MR. KINGLAKE  said, he wished to correct a rather important historical error in the statement which the noble Lord opposite (Lord A. Vane Tempest) had made to the House. It was important because it touched that which was very dear to us—the renown of the British army. The noble Lord represented that the allied armies at the Alma had been successfully resisted by earthworks, and that but for the turning movement our invasion of the Crimea must have failed. In point of fact, the only flank movement which took place at the Alma was a flank movement effected by the French, and in a part of the field where there were no earthworks whatever. There were, however, two earthworks at other points defending the Alma of some importance, and both were successfully stormed by the British infantry. He had no intention of taking any part in the discussion as far as the technical question was concerned. On the contrary, his object was
 1241 1242
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  disagreed with the hon. Member for Bridgwater (Mr. King-lake.) The general principle as to whether there should or should not be fortifications could be discussed as well inside as outside of that House. Two years ago the House evinced its willingness to vote whatever sum the Government thought necessary for the defences of the country. A Commission was then appointed to inquire into the whole question—and he did not know what the Government could have done better. It was composed of eminent and experienced men in the army and navy; they went fully into the subject, and they reported in favour of the construction of a series of works involving an outlay of £10,350,000. The Government, having given great consideration to these recommendations, adopted them. But since had arisen the question as to whether Spithead could not be as effectually defended by iron ships, and the Government had for the present abandoned the construction of the Spithead forts, and many of the inland forts. Comparing the sums proposed by the Commissioners and those now asked for by the Government, there was a decrease of £800,000 for the purchase of land, and of £2,525,000 for the various works. The estimates of the Commissioners had been reduced by the Government as follows:— The Chatham western defences were reduced by £700,000; the works at Woolwich by £700,000; at Portsdown Hill by £250,000; at Plymouth, Saltash by £500,000, and the north-eastern defences from £1,200,000 to £350,000; the Pembroke works by £450,000. The Government might therefore be supposed to have given up most of the inland forts. He
 1247 1248
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS : The Amendment which the hon. and gallant Member (Sir F. Smith) has moved is substantially for Returns of certain facts which have already been reported to the House, and which are now upon our table. The hon. and gallant Member proposes that there should be laid before the House Returns showing the original and every subsequent estimate for each work recommended by
 1254 1255 1256 1257
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he would not vote for the second reading if he believed that by so doing he was pledging himself to the plan of the Government in its entirety; but he did not take that view. The House had never pledged themselves to a particular plan. All they had ever gone the length of saying was, that they would grant any money which they believed to be necessary to provide for the defences of the country. The plan now before them might be a good one or it might be a bad one; but he should like to see it supported by a greater weight of authority. A plan supported by the opinion of the most eminent military men in the country would command confidence, and would receive the approval of the country. Isolated defences for particular localities were matters for the consideration of engineers. The House of Commons was not the place to discuss military details; and there was no general plan before them for the defence of the country.
 1259
 MR. GRANT DUFF  suggested whether the idea of making dockyards bomb-proof might not be worthy of consideration.
 MR. WHITE  said, there was one great point which had been overlooked in the present discussion. It was admitted on all hands that we were in a transition state as regarded our means of carrying on maritime war. For a long time we had had recourse for the manufacture of the steam-engines of our navy to private firms; it occurred to him that the hulls also should be built by private contract; and if that were done, there would no longer be a national necessity for such an accumulation of stores and naval requisites as we had now in our dockyards, and therefore it would cease to be a matter of vital importance that we should incur enormous expenses for fortifying our dockyards and arsenals. There was, however, great repugnance to abolishing the establishments in the dockyards, on account of the vast patronage which they placed in the hands of the Government. Fortifications had never yet preserved any country. On a
 1261
 GENERAL PEEL : I am quite prepared to take my share of any responsibility this House may have incurred by agreeing to the proposals of the Government in 1860, respecting the national defences. What others are now said to have done in haste, I did deliberately. If it be true that the House, under the influence of a panic —created, it is said, by an exaggerated statement on the part of the noble Lord at the head of the Government, of some immediate and pressing danger—sanctioned an expenditure which they now consider extravagant, I can only say that the House acted very foolishly; because it must have been obvious to everybody that the means of defence then proposed could not be completed, or even begun, in time to avert any impending danger. It has been stated by my hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Chatham, that on that occasion we all, like sheep, were led astray; but, for my own part, I deny being influenced either by panic or the speech of the noble Lord in giving the vote I did; and the noble Lord must excuse me for saying, that I thought then, and think now, that that portion of his speech which referred to France was very unwise and very likely to create the danger which he called upon us to avert. I think it very unfortunate, that in the discussions which have taken place on the subject of our national defences, reference is always made to France, and suspicion and distrust expressed, without, in my opinion, any just cause for it. I do not think it at all necessary to entertain such suspicions in order to justify placing your arsenals and dockyards in a state of permanent security. From the moment it was ascertained that guns could be manufactured possessing the power of throwing projectiles a distance which had never before been contemplated, it is quite obvious that all preconceived opinions of security must be abandoned, and that you must set yourselves seriously to work to devise new means of defence against an increased power of attack. The first thing I did on the adoption of the Armstrong gun into the service in 1858, was to appoint a Committee to ascertain what the effect of those
 1275 "In order to lay down a definite scheme, an amount of information is required which is quite unattainable by any but those who are specially charged with the duty by Government." 1276 1277
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  proposed to grant a superannuation allowance to the registrar on his attainment to the age of sixty years, or on his being in the service of the Government for a period of twenty years.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  moved "That Mr. Speaker do now leave the chair."
 MR. CRAUFUKD  said, he should oppose the Motion, unless an assurance were given that a clause should be introduced into the Bill giving the power of appeal.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  hoped that his hon. Friend would not object to the House going into Committee on the ground he had mentioned. The object of the Bill was to assimilate the law affecting the removal of the poor from England to Scotland, and from Scotland to Ireland, to the existing state of the law with respect to poor removal from England to Ireland. If an appeal was thought right in one case, it ought to exist in the other also.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  objected to the Amendment.
 SIR HERVEY BRUCE  moved the introduction of words providing that a residence of five years in one parish or of ten
 1284
 COLONEL DUNNE  supported the proposition for introducing an appeal from the decision of magistrates in these cases.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that nothing was more fallacious than the argument that because the Government was largely availing itself of the skill and enterprise of private shipbuilders, the Royal dockyards were therefore becoming proportionally useless. They were required for fitting, refitting, repairing, and docking ships and repairing their engines, which every one knew easily got out of order and required great care. Government dockyards were, in fact, more necessary than ever; for just in proportion as the navy became a steam navy, the ships required more docking and repair. The hon. Member for Finsbury (Sir M. Peto) was one of the great advocates for iron ships; but they required more docking than any others. His hon. and gallant Friend (Colonel Sykes) had found fault with the forts on Portsdown Hill, and said the Government ought to build Maximilian towers. But Bomarsund had been taken in the last war because it had been defended by isolated towers. As soon as one of these was taken, the whole place fell like a pack of cards. He believed that engineers had altered their opinion with regard to the merits of these isolated towers. Our dockyards had always been fortified. Portsmouth had been fortified from the most ancient times,
 1264
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU : I did not allude to the hon. and gallant Gentleman the other day.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU : I rested my statement entirely on general rumour. The only words that had the appearance of being a quotation were to this effect, that there were marginal references on the papers forwarded to Mr. Higgins, and one of them was "I particularly direct your attention to the answer of Mr. Horsman to Question so-and-so." It has been admitted by the Chief Commissioner of Works that there were such marginal references, and that is the only thing approaching to a statement of my own; and that I made because the right hon. Mem-
 1217 "3, Chester Place, Chester Square, "June 28. "My Lord,—It has been with feelings of very great regret that I have read in  The Times "I have the honour to be, my Lord, "Your obedient servant, "W. F. HIGCINS. "Lord Robert Montagu, M.P." 1218 "Monday, June 30. "Sir,—I have just read a letter in  The Times The Times "R. W. MONTAGU. "To W. F. Higgins, Esq." "Monday, June 30. "My Lord,—In reply to the letter which I have this morning received, I beg at once to inform your Lordship that I am quite convinced that your statement was based merely on a 'story current in the House," and that, as you professed to have no information from me, you cannot, of course, be accused of having 'stated what was not the fact.' As to the 'marginal references,' I cannot really say whether they existed or not, as, when I found that the documents were not intended for me, I paid no attention to what they contained. From the terms of your letter, I am sure you had a wrong impression of the note which I wrote to Mr. Higgins. "I have the honour to be, my Lord, "Your obedient servant, "W. F. HIGGINS. "To Lord Robert Montagu, M.P." 1219
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU : Sir, as there is a Motion before the House, I wish to take this opportunity of addressing a few words of personal explanation to the House, and I hope it will accord to me that customary indulgence which, whether there be a Motion before it or not, is invariably accorded to hon. Gentlemen who have been made subject to attack, or who desire to correct any erroneous impression. The matter that I wish to bring before the House arises out of what took place on Friday last, and I must first put the House in possession of facts which caused me to make the Motion for the adjournment on that evening. On that evening some of the Members of the Thames Embankment Committee met together a little before four o'clock, in order that a rumour, inexplicit in its form, should not remain unnoticed. At that meeting we came to no decision as to our course of action; but at a quarter to six we met again, and it was then agreed that some hon. Gentleman should move the adjournment of the House in order to obtain such explanations as were considered to be necessary, and I was requested to make that Motion. Now, Sir, in the papers of this morning there are three distinct charges brought against me in a letter signed by a gentleman of
 1216
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU : I understood that I might allude to my own speech.
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether there will be any objection to lay upon the table of the House the correspondence which has passed between the Home Government and the Governor of Canada with reference to the Militia Bill; and whether the Despatches which have been recently received from the Governor of New Zealand respecting the Native Land question in that Colony will be presented to Parliament?
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, that in his opinion the hesitation of Parliament on this subject arose from the original question not having been fairly brought before the House and fully discussed. Important documents had only very lately been put into their hands; and he referred in particular to the Return which had been laid on the table that morning, which showed that in this matter the
 1252
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  proposed to amend the clause by the insertion of the words "sixty-five' instead of "sixty" years.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. BUXTON  was sorry to observe that the hon. and gallant Gentleman had spoken somewhat disparagingly of the Volunteer force ["No, no !"]; but no less an authority than the Duke of Cambridge, who had seen something of that force, had, when speaking on the question under discussion a few evenings before, stated that if an enemy were to land on our shores and march on London, the Volunteers, by whom our forts would be manned, might issue from them and fall on the flank of the advancing army; thus showing that in the opinion of so eminent an authority, they were not unfitted to meet French soldiers even in the open field. He might further remark, that he thought it was somewhat inconsistent on the part of the Government to ask the House to spend so large an amount on fortifications, and at the same time to hesitate about spending a few thousands for the purpose of supplying the Volunteer force with clothing every third year. In his own opinion, and in that of every Volunteer officer with whom he had conversed, with perhaps one or two exceptions, that force, if it were obliged for the future to incur the heavy expenses to which it was now exposed, would very rapidly melt away. The prevention of such a result, therefore, was subject which ought to occupy the serious attention of the Government. He might, before he sat down, be allowed to refer to another point which had been mentioned in the course of the discussion —he alluded to the means of transport which might be supposed to be at the disposal of an invading army. Such an army, he believed, everybody concurred in thinking must, to have any chance of success, muster 80,000 or 100,000 men. How, he would ask, was so large a force to be brought over from France? If in wooden vessels, it was quite clear that those ships would be as mere eggshells in comparison with an iron fleet; while, if iron vessels were to be employed for the purpose, it was equally clear that abundant time would be afforded us to prepare ourselves against attack while such vessels were being constructed in sufficient numbers. That was an argument which had great
 1238
 MR. NEWDEGATE  wished to say a few words on this subject, in consequence of an hon. Member having rather insinuated that he had a fanatical attachment to the scheme of defence now under the consideration of the House. He (Mr. Newdegate) did not believe he had any fanatical feeling in the matter. But this he deprecated to the fullest extent — that the House of Commons, having solemnly decided on a system of national defence, there should appear a disposition on the part of the House, or rather on the part of what he believed to be a small majority of that House, to recede from that decision True it was that the House had to lament the pressure of distress in the manufacturing districts, and looked on the expenditure, which it was now called on to provide for, but which was decided upon some years ago, with more consideration than when the House came to that decision. But was it to be said that the House of Commons had so little consistency—that the Legislature of England was so light and frivolous on this great question, that a mere temporary emergency in the manufacturing districts should at once alter the decision to which it had come after much inquiry and deliberation, as to the national defences? He believed that the hon. Member for Liskeard (Mr. B. Osborne), when he found that the forts at Spithead were abandoned, found that he had obtained rather more than he desired. The hon. Member appeared to be perfectly disappointed that the Government had conceded that point. And he (Mr. Newdegate) confessed to an equal feeling of disappointment, though for a totally different reason. He did not think that the evidence condemned the system of defence which the Government had begun. But one thing was perfectly obvious. The House were now in a position of having fortified Portsmouth inland, and were to remain something like a year without defence from the sea. He had recently been reading the  Life of the Duke of Marlborough 1249 1250 1251 points d'appui
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, the Correspondence with respect to the Canada Militia Bill was of very small amount, and there was no objection to produce it. The Correspondence upon the Now Zealand question was still in progress, and he hoped it would be laid upon the table before the end of the Session.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that as his name had been used by the noble Lord—somewhat unwarrantably—he wished to state exactly what had occurred, and leave the House to form its own opinion. He was walking home along Whitehall between four and five o'clock on Friday evening, when he met the noble Lord near the office of Woods and Works. The noble Lord told him what had occurred, and said it had been determined to bring the matter before the House at six o'clock. He said he was deputed to bring it on, and that he was on his way to the Chief
 1220
 MR. SPEAKER  informed the right hon. Member that it was competent for him to make a personal explanation as to words spoken in that House, but not to enter upon the general substance of the proceedings of the Committee.
 MR. SPEAKER : If the noble Lord thinks that anything which he has said in this House requires explanation, he may give that explanation, but he must confine himself within that limit.
 MR. SPEAKER : The noble Lord is permitted to make any explanation that he thinks necessary in reference to anything which he has stated in this House and which he thinks necessary for his own vindication, but he is not at liberty to make any comments upon the language used by another person in reference to what has taken place in this House.
 MR. HENNESSY  moved a clause giving power to destroy unmuzzled dogs found at large within fifty yards of a public road, or to fine the owners.
 MR. HOPWOOD  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether, considering the great and increasing distress in the country, the patient manner in which it has hitherto been borne, and the hopelessness of the termination of hostilities, the Government intend to take any steps whatever, either as parties to intervention or otherwise, to endeavour to put an end to the Civil War in America? He wished to give the Government full opportunity of considering
 1214
 MR. HUBBARD  said, his objections to the Bill were based on grounds of a different character from those stated by other
 1260
 CAPTAIN WILLES JOHNSON  said, he held in his hand the accumulated wisdom of the Defence Commission—that wisdom which had produced a Report quite antagonistic to the evidence before them. When he first entered the service, the word "defence" was not to be found in our naval vocabulary. But now the word "attack" was never mentioned. If it ever escaped any one's lips, it was "with bated breath and whispering humbleness" lest it should give umbrage to gallant men on the other side of the Channel. It never seemed to have entered the heads of the Commissioners that our naval forces could attack as well as defend. He was sure, that if the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty were at the head of a fleet, and were asked which he would rather attack, Cherbourg or Spithead, supposing both to be a possession of an enemy, he would say Cherbourg. Cherbourg had been a bugbear to the old women of the country, and to the old men and young men also. He had conversed with many hon. Members who had gone to visit that harbour and arsenal, and they came away with the idea that it was a second Gibraltar, and that it was not only impregnable but invulnerable. Toulon, Brest, and L'Orient, being  cul-de-sac 1281 1282
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Never having seen, and knowing nothing of Maximiilian forts, I cannot recommend them. But I hope that the House will seriously turn their attention to this fact. It has been affirmed by the noble Lord, who is in a position to have the best information on this point, that the English navy is below that of France. If that be the ease, I for one will support the noble Lord in putting that navy in such a position that it shall be not only on a par with but double the French navy. That is the position which every one who is mindful of his duty to his country would take; but when you come down to this House with false estimates—merely approximate estimates— calling upon the people to provide money for fortifications which are questionable at the best, and when at the same time you are neglecting your right arm, the navy, I say that the House is not doing its duty, nor is the noble Lord doing his duty to the country if such a state of things is allowed to continue. "With reference to the Amendment before the House, moved by my hon. Friend the Member for Chatham (Sir F. Smith), I have only to say that I should have been much better pleased if he had moved the rejection of the Bill at its present stage. If I do not take that course, it is because I was not supported when I moved an Amendment on the introduction of the Bill, and because some of those works are in a state in which it might he desirable to finish them even on the ground of economy. But although I do not mean to move the rejection of the Bill, I beg leave to give notice, that when it goes into Committee, I shall object to the construction of the fortifications at Portsdown Hill so far as they are uninitiated at the present moment. I may say that I am also opposed to the House and the country being led away by a false system of finance—I mean the system of annuities; because, if we were called upon to vote out of the annual taxes the sum required for these forti-
 1274
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Having so recently troubled the House on this subject, I should not on the present occasion have spoken a word; but the noble Lord has made a speech so "horribly stuffed with epithets of war," that I feel I should not be doing my duty as a Member of the British Parliament if I did not say a few words. It seems to be always supposed that any hon. Member who differs from the plan brought forward by the Government is insensible to the propriety of adequately defending the country. Now, at the outset, I wish to set myself right with the Government, this House, and the country, and to state that if I thought the country was in peril, and that the plan of the noble Lord (for it is more his plan than the Commissioners') would afford a good defence for the country, I, for one, would not grudge one penny of the money, but would be prepared to vote whatever was required. However, it is because I believe this plan to be bad and ineffective for the purpose that I am mindful of my duty to the country, and take exception to a very great portion of the plan. It has been assumed that we are only discussing the forts on Portsdown Hill; but, if I understand the Bill, it provides also for the
 1269 Æneid, "Arma virumque cano." 1270 "Away with the delusion;—away with this ignominious panic of foreign invasion ! I maintain, as I have already said, that the relative position of this country as regards other countries never was better than at the present moment.… What, I should like to know, is meant by the term 'sudden invasion,' which is so often used, but with little consideration? The noble Lord the Member for Tiverton has defined it thus: 'We have to provide,' he says, ' not against a danger which may happen in six or eight months, but which may happen in a month or a fortnight from, the time when it is first apprehended." I ask the House, and I ask the country, is it possible to admit this definition of the noble Lord? Let the House for one moment figure to itself the noble Lord sitting in Downing Street with, all
 1271 Hansard "I wish to state what I think is the danger to be encountered, because I do not wish to be mixed up with those who entertain apprehensions—" "I do not wish to be mixed up with those who entertain apprehensions of the sudden arrival in this country of 50,000 hostile troops in a single night, without notice of any kind being received in this country; or that we shall hear of an army marching up to London without our having had any previous symptoms of hostility. These are notions which are founded upon panic, rather than on reasonable calculation." [3  Hansard 1272 1273
 MR. DEEDES  moved the following clause, to follow the first clause:—
 "All managing clerks to attorneys, solicitors, and proctors actually practising, all subordinate officers in gaols and houses of correction, and all constables, shall be and are hereby absolutely freed and exempted from being returned and from serving upon any juries or inquests whatsoever, and shall not be inserted in the lists to be prepared by virtue of the principal Act or of this Act. And to amend Schedule accordingly."
 MR. GREGORY  seconded the Amendment. He must confess, however, that he could not see how the Government could satisfy the latter part of the Motion or make a Return as to "what inconvenience or injury, if any, would result from the postponement of any of the projected works." He wished very much that a different course had been taken with regard to this question of fortifications. He wished to see the question tested by some principle. He should have liked an issue to be raised which would have given himself and others who were opposed to those defences, as far as the evidence already given on the subject warranted an opposition to such works, an opportunity of recording their opinions. He thought his hon. Friend the Member for Liskeard (Mr. Osborne) had taken the right course the other evening to effect that object. His own impression was that the works of every fort should be suspended until it had been proved that they were worth any expenditure at all upon them, and he should have been glad to see the votes of hon. Members recorded on the question of suspending the execution of all the works at the forts until further experiments should have been made. As far as the evidence on the subject went, it showed that those forts would not be worth the expenditure. The whole question of the
 1228 1229 "Iron-cased ships, or forts in motion, can alone contend with reasonable chance of success against forts in motion. If Tom Sayers were strapped to a post very tightly, and you and I were allowed to dodge round him, we might think we should be able to crush the champion; but if the cord happened to break, I know what I should do; and when you write, please say what you would do. It is not unlikely our opinions might coincide upon this point, and that both should live to fight another day." 1230 Warrior "That it appears to this House that to provide effectually for the security of His Majesty's dockyards at Portsmouth and Plymouth by permanent fortifications, is an essential object to the safety of the State, intimately connected with the general defences of the kingdom, and necessary to enable the fleet to act for the protection of commerce and the defence of our distant possessions." 1231 1232 impromptu 1233
 MR. MONSELL  said, that there was
 1278 1279
 COLONEL SYKES  explained that he had said that independent forts would he better than a continuous fortification, and might he constructed at one-twentieth the expense.
 COLONEL SYKES  could not give his assent to the second reading of this Bill. He did not object to our docks and naval arsenals being fortified against a  coup de main 1258 glacis
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  moved an Amendment to the effect that no child who had arrived at five years of age, and should remain in the country ten years, should be liable to removal.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in the course of the next Session, if a Motion should be made for inquiry into the operation of the existing Law on the subject of Night Poaching he should consent to it. From the Bills which he had seen on the subject he thought it essential that some inquiry should precede any alteration of the Law.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he did not know whether the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken had considered to what lengths his arguments might lead the House—he thought it might be extended to very dangerous lengths. Now, he always understood that it was the peculiar duty of the House of Commons, when a Bill was submitted which involved considerable expenditure, to endeavour to find out the purpose for which the money was to be expended, and he was now anxious to obtain from the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for War, some information as to the financial effect of the measure now under discussion. Since his hon. and gallant Friend gave notice of his Amendment two very important papers had been laid before Parliament—one an Estimate of the works, and the other a Return of the liabilities contracted. In 1859 the House was called upon to vote £2,000,000 for a specific purpose connected with the defences of the country. That purpose was rather roughly described in a schedule, but he was confident that every Member who voted for the second reading of that Bill understood that he was not pledging himself and his constituents beyond £2,000,000. Now, here in 1862 they were called upon to advance £1,200,000 more, and it was declared in the preamble to the Bill that Parliament "cheerfully grants" the money. Now, the House should remember that the money they were about to grant was, to a considerable extent, the money of posterity. That might be a ground for cheerfulness; but nevertheless the House of Commons of the present day had a duty to discharge in seeing that the money was really required and properly applied. But by the Return to which he had referred, it appeared that
 1243 1244
 SIR JAMES DUKE  said, he should not have risen if the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had not stated that Toulon could easily be attacked. If the hon. Gentleman were outside Toulon, as he was some years ago, he would be very glad to turn tail, and not risk the loss of his ship from the guns on the Cape. As an old sailor, he thought they ought to feel deeply indebted to the noble Lord for the efforts he was making to provide efficient defences; and he was sure the country would, for that reason alone, be ready to rally round the noble Lord's Government. He never doubted that the navy would, as in past times, maintain its honour and renown, but these were not days when they could bid defiance to any country by seamanship alone. The introduction of steam had produced a change of circumstances which no one could ignore. The gallant General the late Secretary of State for War had nobly supported the proposals of the Government, and a majority of the House of Commons would support any Administration which evinced the same spirit as the noble Lord in seeking to put the country in a proper state of defence.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he
 1280
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  thought that in the present discussion some points which deserved consideration had been lost sight of, in consequence, probably, of the speeches delivered the other evening being directed very much to the question of erecting defences at Spithead. It appeared to him that the question now before the House was simply whether they should proceed with the land defences for the dockyards and arsenals. [ Cries of 1234 1235 1236 1237
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, that the opinion of the House had been formed upon the suggestion of the Government that these fortifications had been recommended by the Defence Commissioners for the defence of the country. But that was not the case. He had been examined as a witness
 1253
 SIR JOHN OGILVY  hoped the Committee would be postponed
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he wished to put a Question to the First Commissioner of Works, with regard to a Motion which stood in his (Sir John Shelley's)
 1215
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he begged to move, as as an unopposed Return, for copy of all Correspondence between the Treasury, the Office of Works, and the Commissioners of Woods, Forests, and Land Revenues, relating to the Works under the Thames Embankment Bill, and the Plans relating thereto.
 SIR MICHAEL SEYMOUR  said, he was surprised that such sweeping changes should be proposed in a scheme which was deliberately adopted by the House no further back than 1860. Every nation in the world had expended large sums in land and sea defences. In France all the arsenals were protected by the strongest fortifications they could devise, and the United States, immediately after the war with England, took measures to fortify the coasts. The grave question for the consideration of the British Parliament was, how far they should carry out the system of forts and fortifications. The gallant General the Member for Chatham (Sir F. Smith) argued that a large standing army would be required to man such an extensive system of fortifications; but in the great war with France we had nearly a million of men, including militia, volunteers, sea fencibles, and other similar forces—and in case of need there was no
 1245 matériel 1246
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, it seemed to be assumed by the supporters of the Bill, first, that we had lost the command of the Channel; and, secondly, that the enemy must come to the forts to be attacked. If he looked back to the year 1855, when an adjoining country, taught by actual experience, ceased to expend any more money upon useless ships, while our own country afterwards spent in seven years £30,000,000 in what was acknowledged to be a useless manner, he thought there was some cause of alarm. But, on the other hand, if he looked to what might be done by the Government if their energies were properly directed, there could not be the slightest doubt of our ability to retain the command of the Channel. With respect to invasion, had the House forgotten the difficulties which the allied armies experienced in landing at Eupatoria, in the beginning of the Crimean war; and if the enemy had been on the alert, and had attacked the transports with one or two vessels, how very different the result of the expedition might have been? Looking to France, with only two ports which we could have any reason to dread—Cherbourg and Brest—if the vigilance, the bravery, and the ability of our fleet in past years were to be taken as a criterion, assuredly we should be able to watch those places and prevent a surprise. With regard to the question of the forts themselves, we had the evidence of Sir William Armstrong to the fact that we had no gun at present which would produce any effect upon an iron-plated ship at more than 200 yards; and therefore they were now asked to spend a sum of money which might be absolutely thrown away. He contended that these forts could not be considered the defences of the country, but merely
 1262 1263
 SIR WILLIAM GALLWEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he will consent to refer the question of the expediency of altering the Laws relative to Night Poaching to a Select Committee?
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he would confine himself to personal explanation. He had heard for the first time that night of certain meetings held by members of the Committee, but he did not attend them. On one occasion he went into the library a little before six o'clock, without knowing that there was a meeting, and he found several members of the Committee there. He supposed he was behind the rest of the world; for when on Friday night he addressed the House, he had never heard anything of what had occurred, nor of the gossip that was flying about. He did not allude to it; he merely alluded to a suppression which by accident or some means had been made in the report of the proceedings of the Committee.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he did not wish to enter into details as to what had taken place in the Committee; but as the noble Lord had entered into various statements, he was sure the House would feel that full justice ought to be done to the members of the Committee. For himself he could say that he had entered on the duties cast on him by the House free from any bias, and with the determination to discharge them to the best of his ability, and he had heard with great pain— ["Order!"]
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I cannot allow the House to go to a division on the second reading without making a few observations on some of the objections urged in the course of this debate. In the first place, as has been stated by my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for War, the necessity of fortifying our dockyards was deliberately and solemnly affirmed by the House two years ago by a very large majority; the House, therefore, is not taken by surprise, as has been stated by some hon. Gentlemen. But the House will recollect that the principle of this Bill was urged upon the Government two years ago. It was advocated by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Stroud (Mr. Horsman) in a very eloquent speech, and the House was only satisfied by a promise on the part of the Government that they would take the matter into their consideration, and that they hoped to make a proposal on the subject in the following Session. The principle, therefore, was deliberately affirmed by the House; and if the House should now go back from it, and declare that it is not necessary to continue these fortifications, they would be reversing that which they deliberately affirmed two years ago. The hon. and gallant Gentleman the Member for Wakefield (Sir John Hay) has complained that that which was referred to the Commissioners was not the general defence of the country, but only the defence of these dockyards. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Finsbury (Sir M. Peto) also complained that we do not ask for money wherewith to defend the country. We do not pretend to fortify the country. No one pretends to surround the island with a wall of defence, or to make fortifications whereby to defend the whole country. A plan for the defence of London has been proposed, but we have not adopted it. The country and the capital must be defended by men—by troops on the field, and by battle; and I do not doubt that that defence would be
 1265 1266 1267 glacis 1268
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : There is nothing in the world more calculated to lead to no result than a discussion about what "I said" and "you said," and somebody else said, because it is quite certain that no two individuals will agree as to what was said by either party. I should hope, that the noble Lord having disburdened himself by—I will not say a recantation, but an explanation—this conversation may be allowed to drop. The noble Lord, if he will allow me to say so, is in the position of having found a mare's nest. He thought he had made a great discovery, but it amounted only to this— that my right hon. Friend did what every member of a Committee considers himself at liberty to do, when the Committee have ended their labours, and sent one or two sheets of the evidence to a private friend. ["No, no!"] From what has been said, one might suppose that the Committee was a secret Committee, and that its proceedings ought to be known to no one but the Members; whereas the Committee was in fact attended by fifty or sixty persons
 1221 The Times
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I trust I need not assure the hon. Member and the House that Her Majesty's Government are deeply sensible of the sufferings now existing in the cotton-manufacturing districts. We know that the privations in those districts are great, and also that those who suffer them have endured them with the most heroic fortitude and patience, thus doing the greatest possible credit to their understanding and intelligence. They know that the sufferings which they endure have not resulted from any bad legislation or any misconduct on the part of the Government of the country. They know they are caused by circumstances in other countries over which we have no control. Her Majesty's Government would be most happy, if it were in their power, to do anything which would be likely to afford relief to those unhappy classes of the population. But I am sure the House will see that anything like interference with the war now going on would only aggravate still more the sufferings of those now under privation. With respect to mediation and good offices, there is no doubt whatever that both Her Majesty's Government and the Government of the Emperor of the French would be delighted to avail themselves of any opportunity that appeared to offer a fair prospect that such a step would be attended with success. But in the present state of the contest, while the two parties seem animated with the most bitter feelings and angry resentment against each other, I am afraid that any proposal of that kind would not be well timed, and would be sure to meet with rejection on both sides. If, however, at any time, a different state of things should arise, and a fair opening appear for any step which might be likely to meet with the acquiescence of the two parties, it would be not only our duty to offer our services, but would afford. Her Majesty's Government the greatest possible pleasure to do so.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, that the issue raised might be termed town, against country. He denied that the landlords of Ireland desired to clear the people off their estates. Nothing could be so ruinous as to pursue such a course. Whenever real
 1293
 LORD NAAS  suggested that the clause should be withdrawn and a new clause brought up on the Report.
 LORD NAAS  said, he should oppose the clause, which would place pauper children in a better position than the children of poor parents.
 SIR, ROBERT PEEL  said, he had a decided objection to the clause. The fee would operate as a premium to persons to take children as apprentices and afterwards neglect them. Besides, the effect of the clause would be to give a premium to parents or guardians to send children to the workhouse.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, the Bill had been introduced after much consideration, each of its clauses having been fully inquired into by a Select Committee. The great object of the measure was to enable
 1297
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  considered that the clause was in effect an adoption of the principle of union rating, which would lead to extravagance.
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  said, he wished to move the addition of a clause, providing that it should be lawful for boards of guardians to recover from, putative fathers the cost of the maintenance of illegitimate children during the time they were inmates of a poorhouse and while under the age of fourteen years, such cost of maintenance and costs of suit to be recoverable by process at quarter sessions.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he also must express his disapproval of the clause. It would naturally lead to the establishment of a system of union rating, and ultimately of national rating; and one of the strongest motives which at present induced landowners to look after the improvement of the people on their estates would thus be destroyed.
 COLONEL FRENCH  denied that the Bill was compulsory. On the contrary, it was permissive. Nothing could be done under it in any district until a large majority of the proprietors had called on the Board of Works to form a drainage district.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  observed, that the course pursued by the Chief Secretary had his entire approval.
 MR. M'CANN  said, that out of one electoral division in the county of Louth 400 persons had been driven, and they made their way to Drogheda, where most of them had to take refuge in the workhouse. Surely it was not just that the ratepayers of that town should be chargeable with the support of those paupers. He hoped the House would adopt this clause, and that the system of union rating would be carried out.
 MR. BAGWELL  said, he did not think that the clause, if passed, would be a step taken towards union rating. He believed, on the contrary, it would be a step in the right direction; and he trusted, therefore, the right hon. Baronet would persevere with the clause. He could not agree with the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just spoken as to the desire of the landlords of Ireland to keep the people out of the workhouse. The first thing thought of usually on an estate being acquired was to "improve" it by clearing off the people, who had then no resource but to obtain workhouse relief.
 MR. BAGWELL  said, he would recommend the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary to hand over the Bill to the noble Lord opposite (Lord Naas), whose suggestions with reference to Government Bills relating to Ireland seemed invariably to be adopted.
 MR. BLAKE  said, he wished to propose the adoption of a clause to enable guardians to apprentice children, with the consent of their parents, up to the ago of fifteen, and to pay a fee for them not to exceed £10.
 MR. BLAKE  said, he would then move that after the passing of the Act the  ex officio
 MR. BLAKE  said, he would propose the addition of a clause enacting that it should be compulsory on all boards to provide separate places of worship in the workhouses, to be exclusively used for such purpose by the congregations, for whom chaplains might be appointed.
 MR. GEORGE  said, the clause which, the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) proposed in lieu of the first clause, enacted that before a pauper could become chargeable to a particular electoral division he should have resided in the union for five years next before the application for relief and for two years within the electoral division. The clause as it originally stood, and as it had been rejected by the Select Committee to whom the Bill was referred, proposed that the pauper's residence in the union should be five years continuously, two of these years being spent within the electoral division to which he was made chargeable. The word "continuously" was objected to by the Committee, and the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland undertook to amend the clause; but he (Mr. George) contended, that although the wording had been altered, the meaning was the same, there being no practical difference between five years' continuous residence and five years' residence next before the obtaining of relief. He objected to the clause on the ground that it approximated to union rating, the principle of which he hoped would never be extended. Every inducement should be given to country gentlemen to employ the people, and he believed it was their desire to keep the people out of the workhouse. The effect of the electoral division system would be to make proprietors anxious to keep the people of their electoral division out of the workhouse.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he should support the clause as one that would be beneficial to the children, to the guardians, and to society.
 MR. VANCE  said, he would move the addition of a clause, enacting that when the Poor Law Commissioners should have divided any electoral division into wards, every ratepayer in respect of property in the ward should have a vote or votes in the election of guardians in such ward, according to the scale of votes provided by the Act 1 & 2  Vict.
 MR. O'BRIEN  said, he would move the addition of a clause, to the effect that as it was desirable that provision, should be made for the burial of persons dying in very distressed circumstances, it should be lawful for the relieving officer of each union to provide for the burial of such persons, and to charge the expense upon the poor rates of the union.
 MR. O'BRIEN  said, he would ask the Committee to accept the clause as a compromise between town and country. It was within his own. knowledge that 250 families had been removed from one estate in the county of Tipperary, and were obliged to seek refuge in a neighbouring borough, the effect of which was to raise the rates in that borough to something like 25s. in the pound.
 MR. MORE O'FERRALL  said, that if the clause was adopted by the House, it would be the first introduction in Ireland of the principle of the bastardy laws, and he should therefore oppose it.
 MR. MORE O'FERRALL  objected to the measure altogether as mischievous and dangerous.
 MR. SCULLY  said, he should oppose the Bill. It was a compulsory measure, which would enable commissioners of drainage to take the lands of a proprietor, and run drains through it, against his will and at his expense.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he approved of the step taken by the right hon. Baronet, which would carry out the recommendation of the Select Committee.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  moved the insertion of a clause, after Clause 19, to the effect that guardians, when elected by the ratepayers of two or more electoral divisions, should notify to the returning officer for which of the divisions he would act as guardian.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, his object had been to adhere strictly to the recommendation of the Committee, and he certainly did not intend to introduce anything that would tend to establish the principle of union rating, to which he was strongly opposed. He believed the clause as it stood did carry out the recommendations of the Committee; but, after the objections made to it by so many hon. Members for whose opinion he had great respect, that it had a tendency to establish a union rating, he had some misgiving as to the advisability of maintaining the clause. He would therefore undertake on bringing up the report to propose a clause in exact
 1294
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that that was the course he proposed to adopt.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that under the existing regulations in most workhouses a part of the dining-room was partitioned off for the celebration of service, and was used alternatively by Protestants and Roman Catholics, and the provision was generally found sufficient.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he saw no reason to alter the law as it stood, the boards being composed equally of  ex officio
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  objected to the clause.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he had no objection to the adoption of the clause.
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, he found himself in an unwonted position with respect to the measure, inasmuch as that was the first occasion on which it was his duty to ask the House to read the Bill a second time. Much had been said about the late division, in which the supporters of the ballot achieved a victory by a very considerable majority in a small House. He would assure the House that it was not his desire to have pressed the question hastily forward to a division, or to
 1298 The Times "Whoever wishes to see the low condition to which a once great Parliamentary question is reduced, has only to refer to our Parliamentary proceedings to observe that Mr. Berkeley could only assemble eighty Members." The Times 1299 1300 two Lazzaroni dolce far niente 1301 1302 1303 Trent Cheers from the Of position 1304 Q. "Then you think that Birmingham is not properly represented?—Certainly not." 1305 Q. "Do you think that some change is required that will prevent intimidation?—I do." Q. "You are an active partisan and a bold man. Your opinions were well known; but take the case of a person who has never taken an active part, and who is quite nervous about these matters, some change would be better for him, perhaps?—Yes, it would I believe if it were done in that way that nobody knew how people voted, Spooner would have been returned." Q. "Therefore, you think many voted against their opinion?—No doubt of that." Q. Would it not be a great point to have men's votes agree with their opinions?—-Yes, surely." Q. "Are you in favour of vote by ballot?— A pause.… Q. "Are you in favour of protecting the elector with the ballot?—I don't know that. I am too good a Tory for that." "The strike at Bolton has been one of a peculiar character. Both spinners and power-loom weavers have been on strike for six weeks rather than stand a reduction of 5 per cent on their wages, which the masters stated was necessary to keep them right. The Spinners' Union officers advised the men to accept, and ask for a rise when trade improved. Their prudent counsel was clamoured down by many of the younger and more thoughtless hands. A week or so ago a proposition was made that each mill should vote by ballot whether the negotiation should be settled by the committee. This was really whether they should go in or not, and was understood to be so, as the whole body knew what the secretary's opinion was. A decided majority voted in the affirmative, and the strike was virtually at an end with the spinners. Negotiations with the employers only remained, and they resumed work this morning. The weavers who have been out
 1306 The Times The Times The Times "I have only one more observation to make in reference to a remark made by you in a former number of your journal, in which you bracket the ballot in the same category with manhood suffrage and equal electoral districts. I am able to assure you that the ballot has worked most harmoniously in Victoria. It is Conservative in its tendency, and is not practically open to abuse; but its chief excellence and characteristic virtue is the noiseless manner in which it accomplishes its object." Q. 1. "Had you any experience of open voting in the colony prior to the introduction of the ballot? —stood two severely-contested elections for the city of Adelaide before the ballot came into operation." Q. 2. "Had you, before the ballot was adopted, drunkenness, fighting, treating, intimidation by mobs, or undue influence by customers or tradesmen?—-Drunkenness, riot, and great disorder invariably prevailed at elections under the open voting. On one occasion in particular the mob, frantic with drink, and armed with bludgeons, had possession of the street leading to the polling-booth, and it was as much as a man's life was worth to cross the street wearing the colours of the candidates to whom the mob was opposed.
 1307 Q. 3. "What has been the effect of the ballot on such malpractices?—A total cessation of all the above evils." Q. 4. "Has the ballot diminished the expense of elections?—Most decidedly. Any candidate can now be returned free of expense, except a few pounds for advertisements, or his own necessary travelling expenses to reach the electoral district to address the electors before the nomination day." Q. 5. "Does the ballot prevent a man's vote from being known? — It is utterly impossible for a man's vote becoming known, unless he himself chooses to say which way he has voted." Q. 6. "Has there been an increase in the number of persons recording their votes? — Certainly; for this simple reason: that now the elections go off so quietly that not more than a dozen idlers think it worth their while to loiter about the polling-booths, and the most timid person can comfortably and securely go to poll his vote. People go and record their vote, and in five minutes go about their own business affairs." Q. 7. "Have you had any petitions for undue returns on account of bribery or other causes since the introduction of the ballot?—I only recollect one petition for undue return on account of intimidation on the part of a large employer of labour, but the allegations were proved to be unfounded." Q. 8. "Has there been found any practical difficulty or inconvenience in conducting elections by ballot?—None whatever. The whole machinery works as smoothly and is as perfect as anything can be." Q. 9. "Is the ballot generally popular in the colony after its nine years' trial?—Very popular. And I believe those who were formerly opposed to it (except, perhaps, a very few old Tories, whom nothing will change) are now quite satisfied with it." Q. 10. "Has the assent of the Queen been given to any Act of your Legislature establishing the ballot?—Repeatedly; and what is more, it has never been objected to in any despatch from the Colonial Office. The Ministers for the Colonies, of both sides of the House of Commons, Liberals and Conservatives, have repeatedly had to submit to Her Majesty our electoral Acts, which by our Constitution are always reserved for the Royal assent, and such assent has invariably been given." Hansard 1308 "I am in favour of vote by ballot as a measure if sound polling, and my experience of the recent election has more than ever confirmed my views on the subject. The present system of conducting elections is one of our greatest national stains, a system which lays prostrate all those moral and religious considerations which ought to have weight and influence in the exercise of the elective franchise," "That the late election has been one of the most venal and corrupt that has been experienced n this city for a long time. The intimidation and bribery were fearful. I give you a specimen of the former, which might be multiplied  ad infinitum "And now for the lesson which this election has taught. It is a simple one that the Reform Bill which is needed is the Bill you proposed last Session, to take votes byway of ballot. This would amend the representation of the people. Whether more tories or more Whigs would be returned is another question. The opinions of the people arc not now obtained. The Tarborough influence, conjoined with that of Heneage himself, fixes 300 votes to a dead certainty, who have no will of their own whatever as to the choice of a candidate. At every step I had ample illustrations of the great necessity for protection. As a great moral reform, I long for the ballot. As a counteraction to the venal, I beg you to press it on." "James Hardy, a well-to-do man, goes down in his dog-cart to vote for Mr. Heneage. On the road he meets with the seducers, who give him £11 to vote for Mr. Chapman. He assents. They go to the booth, the poll is closed. The seducers have interest enough to get it opened, and to insert into it £11 worth of rascality in favour of Mr. Chapman." 1309 1310
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, he rose to express his concurrence in the views expressed by his noble Colleague. Neither in public nor in private had he received any communication from his constituents expressing a desire to have the constitution of the board changed. He believed that the object of the clause was to defeat by a side-wind an important and useful Bill. He did not believe that, even if carried into effect, it would make any material alteration in the constitution of the Metropolitan Board. The hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets would exercise a wise discretion in bringing it forward as a separate measure.
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, he wished to move a clause to follow Clause 10, to the effect that vestries might have the power of including in the sewers rate precepts of the Metropolitan Board.
 MR. COWPER  said, he had been assured by the printer that the documents would be in the hands of hon. Members on the following morning. A rapid glance would enable hon. Gentlemen to understand their bearing.
 VISCOUNT ENFIELD  said, that on behalf of his hon. Friend Sir J. Paxton, he had to move a clause for re-apportioning the sum of £28,111, charged on the late Fulham and Hammersmith districts, among the parishes in that district.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he did not think, that if the proposed alteration wore made, it would be likely to place more efficient men upon the board than at present. It would be a most unfortunate thing if a great change were made in the constitution of the Board of Works by a clause at the fag-end of the Bill, especially in so thin a House. He therefore concurred in the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet, and he hoped it would be accepted by the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he hoped that the proposition of his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Locke) would not be pressed as it: stood, although it might be valuable in a modified shape.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he wished to propose a clause repealing Clauses 30 and 41 of the Metropolis Local Management Act, which provided that the chairman of the board should be elected only for the day, unless in the case where a clergyman or churchwarden, otherwise qualified, was present; and enabling a vestry or district board to elect its chairman, who should continue in office for one year.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he could not but express his surprise at the opposition of the hon. Member for Bath. He would do better to carry out the wishes of the parent of the Bill, Mr. Bristow, and support the clause.
 MR. AYRTON  said that Marylebone stood in a different position from the rest of the metropolis, for it had its own particular council, which assumed to itself most extraordinary powers. Still he was surprised that the inhabitants of a constituency which identified itself with the progress of the country should assert, through the mouths of their representatives, that nomination was preferable to election. He did not think that opinion was shared by any of the metropolitan community. Everywhere else the conviction, was entertained that the ratepayers should have a direct voice in the election of Members to the Metropolitan Board. Surely there was nothing very extravagant in the proposition that the Metropolitan Board should be elected under the same conditions as the House of Commons. It had been said that the board was entitled to public confidence, but the Thames Embankment Bill was neither more nor less than a declaration that the board was only fit to do the work of bricklayers and masons. His object was to elevate the members of the board, but it was far from his intention to cast pearls before swine; and, since his clause was opposed by the representatives of the
 1318
 MR. AYRTON  said, that as the Bill stood for discussion on the following evening, he wished to point out to the First Commissioner of Works that hon. Members had not received the plans and papers, without which it was impossible for them to comprehend the bearing of the evidence that had been taken by the Select Committee.
 MR. LEFROY  said, he hoped that the Government, before introducing any Bill on the subject, would consult the heads of the Church in Ireland.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he was sorry to oppose his hon. and learned Colleague, but he had received very strong representations from many of his constituents against the clause. Its effect would be to exclude many most competent persons from the board.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he rose to thank the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Homo Department for the manly manner in which he had rejected the artful argument which had been addressed to the House by the hon. Member who had introduced the Bill. It was his firm conviction that the conduct of the right hon. Gentleman would meet with a satisfactory response from the country. One plain fact was stated by the hon. Member for Bristol, that his proposal was supported by a small minority in that House; and he (Mr. Newdegate) believed also by a small minority in the country. The best proof of this was the conduct of the House; and if the argument of the hon. Member for Bristol was worth anything, it was this, that the House expressed the opinion of the majority, but that the majority constituted a tyranny over the minority. The hon. Member had cited the rejection of
 1311
 LORD FERMOY  seconded the Motion.
 LORD FERMOY  said, that ever since he had had the honour of a seat for the borough which he represented, he had heard the Board of Works found fault with by Members in that House, but he had no evidence either public or private that his constituents or the inhabitants of the metropolis were discontented with that board the absence of petitions was at least a proof that the Board of Works were not the unpopular body described. If they talked too much already, he did not see how the evil would be abated by the addition of forty more metropolitan members to it. The members of the board had proved themselves to be good men of business, and had carried out the important works intrusted to them in a manner creditable to themselves and advantageous to the public. The proposition of his hon. and learned Friend was, he believed, right
 1317
 LORD FERMOY  said, he wished to move the addition of a clause giving power to vestry and district boards to contract for the removal of manure from stables and cowhouses.
 LORD FERMOY  said, the Motion was unprecedented. The Bill had been before a Select Committee, and the evidence taken before it had not been printed, and it was unusual to press a Bill on in the absence of the evidence. The Government officials, who had put forward the hon. Member for Wexford, were anxious to push on the Bill unfairly. The measure affected property in Ireland to the value of nearly £100,000,000 a year, the owners of which had not had an opportunity of being heard before the Select Committee. He contended that there was a good case for sending back the Bill to the same Committee for further inquiry, or submitting it to a new Committee. The measure was a mere job, for the purpose of enriching a few private owners of fisheries in Ireland.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he saw no ground for the innovation, and he should oppose the clause.
 COLONEL FRENCH  objected to the postponement. Charges had been made against the members of the Committee which they ought to be allowed to answer. The Bill was an important one, and every opportunity of pressing it ought to be seized.
 MR. HADFIELD  expressed his regret that the measure should be withdrawn, especially as Ireland was ripe for legislation on the subject.
 MR. POTTS  said, the object of Parliament in granting the franchise was that the electors should give their votes freely and according to their consciences. They
 1312
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, he should support the clause, as he thought that the members of the Metropolitan. Board should be elected directly by the ratepayers. Some of the proceedings of the board, as constituted, had created great dissatisfaction in the metropolitan districts, and there was an almost unanimous feeling in favour of an alteration in the mode of election.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, he rose to move the second reading of the Bill. He proposed, in case the House assented to the second reading, to go into Committee  pro formâ
 MR. HENNESSY  said, at the close of the last Session he called the attention of the Chief Secretary to the state of the marriage law in Ireland, and strongly urged him to introduce a Bill upon the subject. The Yelverton marriage case had shown that the Roman Catholic clergy were labouring under penal disabilities, because if they celebrated a mixed marriage before the ceremony had been performed by a Protestant clergyman, they would be liable to punishment for felony. He hoped, then, the Government would turn their attention to the subject.
 MR. LOCKE  said, the object of the clause proposed by his hon. Friend the Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) was to give the ratepayers at large the right of electing members of the Metropolitan Board of Works, instead of the vestry being intrusted with that power. He (Mr. Locke) should support the proposal. The Metropolitan Board of Works had the power of taxing the whole metropolis; and he thought, as taxation and representation should go together, that the election of the members of that board should be in the hands of the whole body of ratepayers, and ought not to be confined to vestries and district boards, who, practically, always sent to the Metropolitan Board of Works members of their own bodies. The Select Committee who considered the subject came to the conclusion that direct election by the ratepayers would strengthen the position of the members of the board, and many witnesses gave it as their opinion that under a system of direct election the
 1315
 MR. LOCKE  said, he could not allow the statement of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate), that his hon. Colleague (Mr. Spooner), having been rejected by intimidation at Birmingham, was at once returned by the county as a compensation, to pass without a remark. If such were the case, it was a very solitary instance; but the fact was that the counties were too well accustomed to intimidation, that they took it as a matter of course, and called it by another name; for they simply regarded it as following their leader, or rather their landlord. In Ireland, when a man was asked how he was going to vote, he always replied either for his priest or his landlord; and in England it was a well-known fact—it was all to be found in  Dod 1313
 MR. LOCKE  said, he wished to move a clause rendering persons in receipt of fees or poundage, or other emolument by way of salary, out of the rates and taxes, ineligible to be elected as vestrymen.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he proposed after Clause 109 to insert a clause providing, that in compensation cases, where the parties felt themselves aggrieved by the ruling of the assessor or by the finding of the jury, it should be lawful to apply to one of Her Majesty's Superior Courts in Westminster Hall for a new trial or rehearing of the case, or for the reduction or increase of damages. He only wanted that the same rule should apply to compensation cases as applied to all other cases. It frequently happened that very nice points of law arose upon these compensation cases, which it was desirable should be determined by a superior court of law.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he would withdraw his Amendment, as the feeling of the Committee seemed to he against it, though nothing had been said against the justice of his proposal.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he should take the sense of the Committee on the clause.
 MR. M'MAHON  intimated his intention to postpone his Motion.
 MR. COX  said, he had to move a clans repealing Section 6 of the 18 & 19 Vict 1319
 MR. LYSLEY  said, the object of the Bill was to put down intimidation and bribery; but, in his opinion, it would not succeed in doing so. Landlords and others who possessed influence would find that freedom of voting would in the end redound more to their advantage than intimidation. The Bill, so far from affording a remedy for bribery, would do exactly the reverse, for it would put a man in a position to take a double bribe. A friend of his who had once been a Member of that House had last winter returned from America, where he had been introduced to many persons who held the most advanced opinions in that country, and he told him that nine out of every ten of the thinking men there were agreed that universal suffrage and vote by ballot must be got rid of. He had the greatest possible confidence, that if the measure were passed, it would spread a great amount of demoralization among the electors of all small and wealthy towns, and he should therefore feel it his duty to vote against it.
 MR. TITE  explained that the present system, according to which the Metropolitan Board of Works was constituted, arose out of the deliberations of the Royal Commission of 1853; and, notwithstanding all that had been said, the board was not unpopular, and performed their duties zealously and faithfully. Every district board and vestry had petitioned against an alteration in the constitution of the Metropolitan Board of Works. The appointment of members to that board was not the result of any close system of nomination, but the members were chosen simply because they enjoyed the respect of the inhabitants of their different localities, and were considered the proper men to represent them. The board was now engaged in the construction of the largest works ever committed to the management of any body of men, and he trusted that it would not be interrupted in its proceedings at such a moment by a change in the mode of electing the members on a mere suggestion. If, however, the change were necessary, it ought to be effected by a special measure, not by such a clause as that which it was proposed to insert in the Bill before the Committee.
 MR. TITE  said, that judging from his experience, he thought it would he undesirable to alter the qualification for vestrymen. He must oppose the clause.
 MR. TITE  said, that a proposition which made so extensive an alteration in the law of the land should not be introduced in a Bill of the kind under consideration. He could not believe that the Committee would listen to it for a moment. It might or it might not be right to give such an appeal, but so important a question ought to be discussed on its own merits and as a general principle.
 MR. TITE  said, that he saw no reason why a measure should be passed in favour of two districts only, which had been rejected on behalf of the metropolitan districts generally.
 MR. TITE  said, he must oppose the clause.
 MR. TITE  said, as the clause was entirely permissive, he would not oppose it.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he agreed that the principle of electing members of the Metropolitan Board of Works by the great mass of the ratepayers was a just principle; but he felt its operation would be attended with a vast deal more difficulty than seemed to have been anticipated. It would be especially unwise to make the alteration at the very time when the Metropolitan Board of Works was engaged in a vast and important undertaking.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  observed, that the clause under discussion was one of a series which proposed to make a great change in the constitution of the board. He believed that it would be unwise to make such a change at the present moment; but if it were necessary, it ought to be accomplished by a special measure brought forward in a future Session, and not by the addition of clauses to a Bill which had already passed through Committee.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, his objection to the Bill was a practical objection — that, in a great measure, it would be ineffectual in carrying out the object which the hon. Member had in view. Instead of being a check on bribery, it would facilitate it by preventing detection in many cases. He believed that it would be quite impossible to prevent the great bulk of Englishmen from avowing openly the part which they might take in an election. In his opinion, the elective franchise was both a trust and a duty; and, without affirming that the electors were trustees for the whole community, he would say that they ought to be subject to the ordinary rule of letting the public know how the trust was fulfilled and the duty was discharged. The hon. Gentleman, who was a very consistent and able advocate of the Ballot, had stated that the Bill was supported by every large constituency. However that might be, he (Sir G. Grey) doubted whether the general opinion of the country was in its favour, and he, for one, when the division took place, would vote against the second reading.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he knew very little about the practice of the vestries and district boards, but he thought it would be undesirable to change the existing practice, without cause shown.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he did not think sufficient grounds had been stated for making a change in the law on the subject.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that under
 1321
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he rose to propose that the Chairman do leave the Chair, with a view of withdrawing the Bill. He regretted to have to do so, but it was impossible that the Bill, if it passed that House, should receive due consideration in the other House of Parliament at so late a period of the Session. It was quite clear that a Bill of such magnitude could never be satisfactorily carried through by a private Member; and he therefore hoped that the Government, having admitted more than once that there were many things in the marriage law of Ireland which
 1314
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he would
 1316
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that the practical working of the clause would relieve the rectors of parishes, who felt themselves bound to preside over vestry meetings, from a very unpleasant duty.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he hoped his hon. Friend would not think it necessary to press the Amendment on that occasion. He could at a future time turn his attention to the question of compensation.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he wished to take that opportunity of stating to the House, that in consequence of the very late period of the Session at which they had arrived, together with the difficulty that bad arisen as to the persons who should undertake the duties to be created by the measure—a great difference of opinion existing as to the propriety of intrusting them to the constabulary, or to the medical officers of districts—and seeing also that the hon. and learned Member for Belfast (Sir II. Cairns) had withdrawn his Bill on the Marriage Law of Ireland, the Government did not intend to proceed fur-
 1322
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the Bill professed to have two objects. First, to get a parish rated fairly as amongst the parishioners; next, to have parishes rated equitably as between themselves. With respect to the first point, he thought it would be far better to leave that question to be settled by the inhabitants of a parish, as at present. He, for one, should not like to see the power which parishioners possessed of rating themselves taken out of their hands. The second branch of the Bill was the more legitimate of the two; but, oddly enough, it did not take one single step in the direction it proposed. The machinery it provided, with a view to the equitable rating of different parishes within the same union, was as bad and cumbrous as well could be, and therefore would be found ineffectual to carry out the object which they all desired to see effected. The Bill proposed that the parish overseer should make a valuation
 1331
 COLONEL GILPIN  said, he thought the Bill passed last year rendered the present measure absolutely necessary. He should vote against the Amendment.
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, he would beg to ask the Chief Commissioner of "Works, When the works in Kensington Gardens, at the head of the Serpentine, will be completed?
 MR. COWPER  replied, that there had been, an unexpected delay in fitting a pump to the well sunk at the head of the Serpentine; but he hoped that the whole of the works would be completed before long.
 MR. COWPER : Sir, I think the proceedings which have just taken place are exceedingly irregular. They are undoubtedly so in a Parliamentary sense. It is remarkable that I should be singled out, because I am the promoter of this Bill, for a series of malicious and un-
 1342
 MR. COWPER : Sir, I beg pardon; I have no wish to speak about motives, except as throwing light on acts; and what I have said as to motives I beg to retract. I wish to speak only of acts. Upon inquiry, it turned out that somebody had done a thing not usual among gentlemen—had not respected the privacy of a document which fell into hands for which it was not intended. Well, I do not care upon whom the responsibility of that proceeding rests, whether upon the gentleman into whoso hands the document fell, or upon the noble Lord opposite or any of his advisers; but this I say, that this attack, coming after the other, shows me that there is a great desire in some quarters that this Embankment Bill should not be considered upon its proper merits, and that the attention of the House should be diverted from the real point in question. It reminds me of the brief given to the defendant's counsel in a trial — "No case, abuse the plaintiff's attorney;" and so it was said, "Here there is no case, abuse the promoters of the Bill." Now, I say the hon. Baronet has given a colour to the transactions which he related which is not warranted, nor is it right.
 MR. COWPER : I say the hon. Baronet has given an unfair colouring to the facts to which he referred. The case was a very simple one. The counsel for the Duke of Buccleuch applied to have all the correspondence relating to the question at issue—the case before the Committee—whether the roadway should go in front of the House of the Duke of Buc-
 1343 1344
 MR. COWPER  said, he did not think this an occasion on which he could permit himself to follow the right hon. Gentleman through the personalities on which he had spent so much time, and he altogether declined to enter into any discussion on the private character of the Duke of Buccleuch, which was not, he was happy to say, the question before the House. He begged to assure the right hon. Gentleman that he had no right to call him an opponent of the Duke of Buccleuch. He could not follow the right hon. Gentleman in the soaring flights of imagination and fancy in which he had panegyrized that noble Duke, but lie had the greatest respect for him. He believed him to be a good landlord and highspirited gentleman, and an honest and straightforward man. He thought his Grace's evidence before the Committee did him credit. He made no disguises; he said he came to stand up for his rights. But when he was put forward as a man who had been ill-treated—when an hon. Member thought it chivalrous and courageous to come to the assistance of that ill-treated Duke—he must take the liberty of expressing his opinion that the noble Duke got ample justice at the hands of the Committee. If the evidence was sifted, and the divisions were examined, they would be found not to betoken the slightest want of indulgence towards his Grace. He had never attacked the noble Duke; but he said now he was very sorry his Grace should be put in such a position that his interests were in opposition to those of the public. He was sorry his Grace had not adopted the course which he thought he should have taken had he been placed in a similar position. He thought that under such circumstances he should have submitted to the little inconvenience of a public road near his house rather than have insisted on privacy and endeavoured to stop so great, so urgent a public convenience as
 1389 1390 1391 1392
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, the Thames Embankment Bill would be fixed for today. If it was concluded to-day, the Fortifications Bill would be taken the first thing on Monday; otherwise it would be the second Order.
 MR. C. BERKELEY  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, If there is any objection to give further information relative to the alterations published in the  Navy List Enterprise
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that the  Enterprise Circassian Enterprise
 LORD HARRY VANE  said, he could confirm what had been stated by the noble Lord.
 LORD HARRY VANE  said, that as a member of the Committee he could say that they had attended most assiduously to their duties, and that no Committee could have entered upon an investigation with a more fixed determination to give a judidial opinion upon the matter referred to them. No doubt, some of the witnesses were partial on one side and some on the other; but he believed that the decision of the Committee was founded entirely on the evidence. The charge in the newspapers was, that the Committee acted under a base feeling of audacious observiency. He affirmed, on the contrary, that the Committee were actuated by no such feeling. They were bound to consider the question as it affected the interests of the Crown lessees as well as the interests of the Crown, not in order that the interests of the lessees should stand in the way of a great public improvement, but in order that justice might be done to them. The Bill was promoted by the Board of Works; and if the interests of the public had been alone in question, there would have been no cause for referring the matter to the Committee. The members of the Committee had paid no more attention to the interests of the Duke of Buccleuch than to those of any other person on the line. He repudiated with the utmost indignation, the imputation that either he or any other member of the Committee had been influenced by any such motives as those attributed to them by the hon. Member for Lambeth. The Committee were of opinion that the public interests would be better promoted by the
 1360
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that not having been a member of the Select Committee to which so much reference had been made, he could only express his great surprise at the criticisms which had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the Chairman of that Committee upon the conduct of his brother members. Unless his cars deceived him, the right hon. Gentleman had accused the members composing the majority of that Committee of a want of fairness, hasty judgment, of rashness and precipitancy. Now, it appeared to him (Lord John Manners) that that was language of a very strange character to fall from the Chairman of the Committee when commenting upon the deliberate action of its members. The members of the majority of the Committee would probably find some salve for the wound inflicted by his injurious observations in the right hon. Gentleman's an-
 1393 1394 1395
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he begged to confirm the statement which had been just made by the right hon. Gentleman. It was said in the Committee, that if all the papers were produced, there would be a great deal in them relating to Hungerford Market and other places which they did not care to see, and that they wanted merely the correspondence which related to part of the Embankment. The alteration was therefore suggested after the Resolution was passed, and the Committee assented to it.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he hoped they were not to go on with the Bill, which did not in the least conform with the statement made by the noble Lord at the head of the Government. He trusted the noble Lord would abide by that statement, and assist the metropolitan members in securing that the public should have the full benefit of the improvement for which they were to be taxed. When they examined the clauses which the patriotic Chief Commissioner of Works had introduced, they would see how much of the Thames Embankment was to be given to the public and how much to be frittered away in other directions. And when they came to the question of the Crown lessees, they would have to consider what was to be done, not merely with a footway of eighty feet wide, but with the rest of the valuable land to be reclaimed from the river at the public expense, and whether it was to be allotted to the Crown lessees as garden ground, the worth of which was to be computed according to the number of cabbages it could produce.
 MR. AYRTON  moved that the Chairman be ordered to report progress.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he wished to ask, Why the Correspondence between the Treasury and the Board of Works and the Woods and Forests had not been laid on the table, in accordance with a Resolution which had been moved some time ago?
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, he had been unwilling to interfere with a discussion that was likely to elicit the general opinion of the House as to the measure; but, knowing the great value of time at that period of the year, he would make an appeal to the House to consent to go into Committee on the Bill. There had recently been no discussion on the principle of the measure. Hon. Gentlemen who had spoken had gone into points of detail, anticipating what would have been their arguments in Committee. The hon. Gentleman who had moved the Amendment against the Speaker leaving the chair had hardly said a word on the merits of the Bill. The right hon. Member for Oxfordshire had only pointed out difficulties that would exist whether the Bill was passed or not. His objections were almost entirely to the expense of the valuation. The same objection existed under the present system. New valuations must be made; there had been no less than 2,000 made within the last few years. The right hon. Gentleman must himself admit that the present
 1335
 MR. PULLER  observed, that the necessity for a Bill which would do justice as between parish and parish was admitted by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley), who expressed himself in favour of a gross valuation merely. He should contend, however, that a gross valuation was merely an aggregate of the valuations of the various tenements within the parish. The only way in which such a valuation as would enable the rating to be equitably distributed over the union could be obtained, was to have regard to each tenement. He believed that to the guardians, in whom the ratepayers had confidence, should be intrusted the duties which the Bill proposed to have discharged by the parish overseer. With respect to the question of appeal, he would have more confidence in the decision of a committee of guardians in such matters than in that
 1334
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that the circumstances under which the House entered on the discussion were very unusual, and were certainly not calculated to assist them to a right conclusion. The correspondence which was repeatedly applied for, and the production of which was promised before they began the discussion, was not yet forthcoming. The plan which was issued that morning, and from which they were to judge of the different projects before the public, was entirely inaccurate in some of its most essential features. The blue-book was so far a variation from the usual practice that the evidence was not sent to the witnesses to be corrected, and now appeared in a most inaccurate and slovenly state. He would illustrate that by quoting three questions in the examination of the Duke of Buccleuch. His Grace was asked—
 "You have already had the inconvenience of the sewer being made upon the west side of Montague House?—Yes." "You have gone through that?—Yes, that was a tunnel." "When the wind sets from the river, is there some inconvenience from the smoke of the steamers?" "Not at all now; we consume our own smoke." 1373 "Supposing that the public interests decidedly require this roadway, your Grace would waive any further opposition?—I do not know that I should waive any further opposition; that is asking rather a stronger question than asking a person whether he does not consider his property very considerably damaged." 1374 locus standi 1375 1376 1377 maximum minimum 1378 1379 1380 1381 "The question at issue between the departments of Woods and Works turns upon the degree of importance which may he attached to the plan for continuing the public roadway along the whole line of the proposed embankment, or to the alternative plan of commencing the public road from a point below the Crown property at Whitehall." "My Lords feel that these are questions upon
 1382 1383 1384 1385 1386 1387 1388
 MR. DOULTON  said, that as the Members of the Committee had only defended their misdeeds, he agreed with the noble Lord that it would answer no practical end to refer the question back again to them, and he would therefore withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. DOULTON  said, the point to which he was alluding was the fact that the right hon. Gentleman proposed a Resolution which was to form part of the Report, and that that Resolution conveyed upon the face of it the impression that private interests had at any rate some-
 1351 "The Committee are of opinion that with a view to protect the interests of the Crown and its lessees, and also to avoid unnecessary outlay in the works, and also to afford the greatest amount of relief to the most crowded streets of the metropolis, &." 1352 "Supposing the powers be obtained and the funds forthcoming, do you think that that would at all dispense with the necessity of continuing the roadway up to the foot of Westminster Bridge?" 1353 "I think it would not in any way touch the traffic between Charing Cross and Bridge Street." 1354 minimum maximum
 MR. DOULTON  said, he thought it must be a matter of great and general regret that the construction of a Thames embankment, which was purely a public question, should have been invested with, considerations of so purely personal a character as almost to preclude the House from giving to it that calm deliberation which its importance demanded. In addressing himself to the subject, therefore, he would not follow the example set him by the noble Lord the Member for Huntingdonshire (Lord R. Montagu), who had too evidently attempted to divert the House from the real issue by means of personal allegations. Nor was it his intention to follow the remarks which had been made that night, which tended to show that there had really been some small differences in the Committee upon the question. He regretted that he should be called upon to oppose a Bill founded upon the Report of a Committee, and he approached the question with some misgivings and some fear lest, by the course he proposed to take, he should in any way contribute to the delay which had attended all previous proceedings in regard to this subject. Nor had he much hope that the result of their deliberations on that occasion would lead to a more satisfactory issue, for from the time when the question was first referred to the Royal Commission, whether he had regard to the suspicious arrangements made in connection with the Commission, or whether he had regard to the timidity of the Com-
 1349 1350
 MR. KNIGHT  said, he objected to the Bill as one that was wholly unnecessary and excessively in favour of the towns against the country. It was an attempt by the Central Board in London to take into their own hands the management of all the local rates in England. The only difficulty which had hitherto stood in their way was the difference of rating in the various parishes. He therefore thought that the Bill ought not to pass without protest, and he should accordingly move, that the House should go into Committee on that day three months.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he could not but admit the necessity for some legislation on the subject; but he did not think the Bill treated it in the right way. Correct the Bill as they might, it would still be a source of expense to the rural districts, and he had another objection to the measure—that, like all modern legislation, it had generally a centralizing character. On these grounds, he should oppose going into Committee.
 MR. PEACOCKE  inquired whether the Bill was similar to one which had already passed that House with considerable opposition; and whether its object was to enclose a second portion of Hainault Forest?
 MR. PEACOCKE  observed that notice was given to owners of property in the neighbourhood, but they were precisely the class of persons who would be benefited by the enclosure; and the persons who received no notice were the public at large. Nevertheless, a petition against the Bill was in course of preparation for the purpose of being presented to the House of Lords. For the sake of the poorer classes of the metropolis, who used Hainault Forest for the purpose of recreation, he objected to the proposed enclosure, and should therefore move, as an Amendment, that the Bill be recommitted.
 MR. THOMPSON  said, he was of opinion that the greatest benefit would result from the operation of the machinery which the Bill proposed as it would facilitate the more equitable adjustment of rating. The present law of rating bore very unjustly on railway companies. As soon as it was decided in the Select Committee to omit those clauses which altered the law of rating, the Bill became simply one to improve the machinery by which the
 1333
 MR. KER SEYMER  said, he could hardly conceive that the House could gravely accede to the Motion of the hon. Gentleman, and remit the Bill to the same Committee which had sat for a month on the subject, listened to the examination, cross-examination, and re-examination of witnesses, and come to a decision. If such a conclusion were arrived at, he should certainly respectfully request to be relieved from his duty as one of the Committee.
 1355 1356 1357 1358 1359
 MR. SPEAKER : The right hon. Gentleman cannot impute motives.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he could not attribute to his hon. Friend the Member for Bath (Mr. Tite), that he was influenced to adopt a course because it was favourable to the interest of a noble duke. His hon. Friend, however, had declared himself in favour of a road throughout the length of the embankment, and the length of that embankment was to be from Blackfriars Bridge to Westminster Bridge. It was a remarkable thing, that if there were one question in that Committee upon which all its members were agreed, it was that there should be an embankment between
 1363
 MR. LOCKE : Then he was in error as to that. But certainly the Committee entirely scouted such a proposal. He had heard no reasons to satisfy him why the carriage roadway should not be carried up to Westminster Bridge. Mr. Page said, "I have formed the surface of Westminster Bridge in such a way as the surface of no other bridge in. the universe was ever formed." He certainly trusted that nothing would ever be made like it again; for in the centre of the bridge there were built up little impassable walls about six or eight inches high, right in the centre of the bridge, the pretence being that they would relieve the traffic. Now, Mr. Train had been compelled by a decision of the Queen's Bench to remove a tramway from the Westminster Road, which caused much less hindrance to the traffic than that novel contrivance; and he should like to know whether Mr. Page was privileged to do that on Westminster Bridge which the Queen's Bench had declared was a nuisance on the Westminster Road. In addition to the tramway which Mr. Page had put on Westminster Bridge,
 1364 1365 1366 1367
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he rose to move that the Resolution, which upon the 17th day of June last was reported from the Select Committee on Standing Orders, in relation to the Great Northern and Western (of Ireland) Railway Bill, be re-committed; and that the Petition of the Great Northern and Western (of Ireland) Railway Company, praying for dispensation with the Standing Orders, deposited in the Private Bill Office this day, be referred to the said Committee; and that it be an Instruction to the said Committee, that they have power to inquire into the allegations contained in such Petition, and to report to the House whether the special circumstances therein stated are such as to render it just and expedient that the Standing Order should be dispensed with.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he
 1330
 MR. HUMBERSTON  said, he believed the Bill was a great improvement on the present system, though there were some defects in its details. The assessment committee of guardians, he thought, would be quite competent to deal with the questions that would arise.
 MR. POULETT SCROPE  said, that if he thought the Bill deserving of the character which the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) had given to it, he would certainly not support it. He believed, however, that the main object of the Bill, namely, equalizing the rates of the various parishes in a union, would be effected by the machinery it provided. The principal objection of the right hon. Member was that no effectual appeal was provided for parishioners who felt themselves aggrieved. The 16th clause, however, provided an appeal to a committee of guardians representing the various parishes, who would, no doubt, be anxious to have a fair adjustment and distribution of the rating carried out. It would be a great advantage if a fair and correct valuation of parishes were established, and he believed the Assessment Committee would be able to effect it. Their valuation would be a valuable statistical document. No exception had been taken to the principle of the measure, and its details could be fully considered in Committee.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Yes; but the House ought to have a more definite answer; and unless one was given, he should divide the House on the question that the Bill should be absolutely fixed for Monday.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : I wish that there may be time also for the noble Lord to make a long speech in reply.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, that the hon. Member for Bath had been examined on that point by the Chairman of the Committee.
 MR. LOWE  said, he was sorry to say that some time ago a charge was made against one of the Inspectors of Schools, of having given copies of the Examination Papers to a Priest, and some persons connected with a school. The charge was investigated, and the Inspector resigned.
 MR. CONOLLY  said, he objected to the clause, as it did not carry out the views of the Committee.
 MR. HALIBURTON  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Committee
 1336
 MR. SCULLY  said, he had been listening there for six hours to an angry debate concerning the character of a noble Duke. ["Oh! oh!"] If hon. Gentlemen wished to hear him at considerable length, they would continue to interrupt him. They
 1399
 MR. BARROW  said, that speaking from his own experience as a chairman of a large board of guardians, he differed from the view of the measure taken by the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire. He believed that a revision of the rating
 1332
 MR. COX  said, that the Bill had only
 1401
 MR. GARNETT  said, he had a further question to ask upon the same subject. He wished the hon. Baronet the Member for Westminster to explain how it was that a Resolution which had been passed by the Committee did not appear upon the minutes of the proceedings of the Committee that were first issued. He thought it an act of justice to a deserving officer of the House that some explanation should be given.
 MR. MASSEY  said, it was the usual course for the House to accede to a Motion of the kind.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, that as one of the four Members who had voted in the minority on the Committee, he wished to express his regret that such imputations as had been made out of doors—imputations implying flunkeyism and subserviency to a great ducal interest—should have been cast upon those of his colleagues who happened to differ from him in opinion. Such imputations he should, if it were not unparliamentary to do so, characterize as arrant humbug; and he might further observe, that although he dissented from the majority on the Committee, many good reasons had been advanced to show that the plan of Mr. Pennethorne would greatly relieve the traffic of the metropolis. But even though that was the case, the advantages of the plan were not so great as to induce him to come to the conclusion that it would be desirable to forego in its favour so great an improvement to the metropolis as the construction of a roadway from Blackfriars to Westminster Bridge. He had heard it stated, indeed, that inconvenience would be likely to result from having the traffic along that roadway run perpendicular to that along the bridge; but those who used that argument seemed to forget that the roadway was to have a curve at the junction, and that in Paris, Florence, Vienna, and many other continental towns, roadways ran in a similar manner at right angles with the bridges. Moreover, the road would have a curved or bell entrance to the bridge, and the point of junction would be at a place where there was now, or soon would be, plenty of room. He regretted that such personal attacks had been made upon the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Commissioner.
 1368
 MR. TITE  said, the hon. Member for Lambeth had only done him strict justice in saying that his opinion was an unbiassed one. He had not the honour of knowing
 1361 1362
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied that it was precisely similar to the Bill referred to, and its object was to give effect to certain provisional orders made by the Enclosure Commissioners. These orders were not made without the fullest notice in the neighbourhood, and a report was laid on the table of the House before the Bill was introduced. In that case no petition had been presented against the Bill.
 MR. ENNIS  said, that as chairman of a railway company in Ireland, whose interest would be affected by the Motion of the hon. and gallant Gentleman, he could not but complain of the suddenness with which that Motion had been made. It was only on the previous night that notice was given in the Private Bill Office that the application would be made. They knew nothing of the allegations contained in the Petition, and he trusted, therefore, the hon. and gallant Gentleman would defer his Motion for a few days.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that after the direct appeal that had been made to him he would, with the permission of the Committee, answer that appeal. But in order that the subject should be clearly understood, it was necessary that he should state how the question originally arose on which the Committee arrived at its Resolution. On the 15th May, almost immediately after the Committee commenced their proceedings, Mr. Hope Scott, who was counsel for the Crown lessees, stated that a memorial had been presented by the Duke of Buccleuch and others to Mr. Gore in the previous September; that some correspondence took place on the subject, and that that correspondence was moved for in the House of Commons on the 20th of February, but was refused on the ground of expense. The Motion to which the learned counsel referred was made by the hon. Member for Perth (Mr. Kinnaird), and was to this effect—
 1338 "Copy of all Correspondence between the Treasury, the Office of Works and Buildings, and the Office of Woods, in reference to the Report of the Thames Embankment Commission, and any Bill to be founded or introduced on such Report." 1339 "That copies of all Correspondence between the Treasury and the Office of Works, and the Commissioners of Woods, Forests, and Land Revenue relating to the Thames Embankment, be referred to the Committee, and also the plans relating thereto." 1340 Holding up a paper of which one part was folded over the other "Copies of all correspondence between the Treasury and the Office of Works, and the Commissioners of Woods, Forests, and Land Revenue, relating to the works between Fife House and Westminster Bridge, and the plans relating thereto." 1341
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that he regretted that personal matters should have been introduced into this question. He should himself enter into the discussion without reference to any matters of that kind, believing that the Members of the Select Committee might laugh to scorn all the attacks which had been made upon them in the public journals. There were two kinds of vulgarity of mind. One was shown by the man who was ready to truckle and bow and scrape to great personages; but the other and more detestable was evinced by him who sought to gain a little fleeting popularity by attacking a gentleman because he happened to be a Duke. In his judgment, of all the cowards upon earth, the man who had not the moral courage to stand up for that which he believed to be right lest he should be thought to be truckling to a great personage was the least worthy to mingle in the society of gentlemen. He had no hesitation in declaring that the Committee came to their decision upon public grounds alone; and, as far as he was concerned, he could conscientiously declare that he never adopted a Resolution which, upon mature consideration, he believed to be a more righteous one. The Committee had taken a vast amount of evidence, and had come to a decision by a large majority; and the farther the subject was inquired into the more they would be found to be justified in that decision, and the less persons out of doors would be prepared to take for gospel everything that had been said by the press before the evidence was in the hands of the public. He had always been a strong advocate for some plan for Thames embankment, but from first to last he had looked upon the scheme which had been placed before the Committee as a miserable abortion. It was based on no reliable estimates. No instructions had even been given for estimates until the Bill had been referred to the Committee. Even before the Royal Commission the estimate produced was a mere verbal one, given by Mr. Hunt, the surveyor of the Board of Works—a mere surmise or rough calculation that the scheme could be carried out
 1369 1370 Q. 4486. "Has your Grace taken into consideration whether it is an absolute convenience, not to be met in any other way than giving this roadway?" "If it were imperative for the public convenience, like other persons, I must submit to it; but I am not satisfied that the necessity has arisen. I think otherwise; for instance, Mr. Pennethorne's plan is far superior to the plan of taking the road up to Westminster Bridge." Q. 4487. "Therefore when you come forward to protect your own interests, you do so, believing that public convenience does not absolutely require that you should submit to it.—I think that the advantage to the public is not sufficient to warrant this injury to myself and to my neighbours." 1371 1372
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY : I hope my right hon. Friend will excuse me. I think I could corroborate what I said in two words.
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, he was at a loss to discover how the Bill would insure a uniform and accurate valuation of parishes. If the valuation were to be intrusted to several persons, he doubted whether it would be either uniform or correct. He considered the machinery of the Bill as likely to lead to jobbery and great expense. He should oppose the progress of the Bill.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he wished to move the insertion of a clause in lieu of one which he had withdrawn, providing that every person making application for relief after the passing of the Act should be deemed to have been resident in the electoral division in which, during the period of five years immediately before the application he had been longest usually resident, certain qualifications being laid down as to the electoral division in which the persons seeking relief should, under certain circumstances, be chargeable. The clause was, he might add, the same as had been in operation in Ireland for some time.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  said, he thought many parts of the Bill were good; but it did not contain any clear, distinct principle of rating that might be generally applicable. There was the assessment for the property and income tax, for the county rate, and for the parochial rates. In passing a new law, they should lay down some distinct principle to guide them.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE : Perhaps the hon. Gentleman will read the whole of the Resolution.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, the House would not be surprised if, after what had occurred, the members of the Committee which had sat on that subject were anxious to take an opportunity of offering some observations on their conduct, which had been so seriously impugned. And if it were previously necessary to say anything on the subject, the remarks which had just been made by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cowper) made explanation on their part still more necessary. He wished first, however, to confirm one part of the right hon. Gentleman's statement with regard to the alterations in the Resolution. There certainly had been a conversation in which he (Sir W. Jolliffe) took part; and what he said was, that all they wanted was what referred to the Crown property, and whatever related to the different plans which they had before them. Now, the alternative plans were not submitted to Parliament by the promoters of the Bill—very much to his surprise—and it was on that account that he thought that so much of the correspondence as related to those plans was essential to the proper understanding of the subject. The Committee had certainly some claims for forbearance from the House, after what they had undergone for the last two or three weeks, and they were entitled to take the first legitimate opportunity to appeal to the House for its protection against animadversions on the conduct they had pursued in a public capacity. The duty the Committee had to perform was a duty towards that House, and the basest motives had been attributed to them, for they had been accused of subserviency to private interests, instead of doing their duty to the public. They had been charged with various acts for which there was not the slightest foundation in truth; and he defied any man to show that anything occurred in the Committee which could lead to the slightest suspicion that the Committee were subservient to private interests. The Committee had submitted in silence for two or three
 1346 The Times 1347 1348
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I hope my hon. Friend the Member for Lambeth, who has made the Motion which we are now discussing, will not take the sense of the House upon it, because I think he will see that it is inapplicable to the Bill and to the stage of the Bill which is now under consideration. To refer that plan back to the same Committee would be positively useless; and any Amendment which he thinks the Select Committee might make, it would be open to him to propose in the Committee of the Whole House. I should like to say a word or two now upon the question which we have been discussing. It is remarkable, that the real question being the simplest one possible, and lying in the narrowest compass —namely, whether the roadway on the embankment should stop at Whitehall Stairs or go to Westminster Bridge, we have been led by those who opposed the extension to Westminster Bridge into the most complicated discussion about Commissions which sat Heavens know when, the constitution of those Commissions, whether those who sat upon other plans were fit to sit upon them, into personal
 1396 1397 1398
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Let us do one thing at a time. We have got one Bill before us; let us finish that. If there is time on Monday for the hon. Gentleman to make a long speech, we will go on with the Bill; if not, I will agree to postpone the Order.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he hoped that the introductory clauses, which would give rise to no discussion, would be gone through that night.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the Bill appeared to be a very objectionable measure, and it was rendered more objectionable still by the manner in which it was introduced and subsequently dealt with. The riparian proprietors were sought to be made subject to penal provisions for exercising certain rights over their own property. If a nuisance existed, there were other means of remedying the evil. The Bill, if it were allowed to proceed further, should certainly be made universally applicable; but it was highly inconvenient that a measure which was public and penal in its provision and enactments should be introduced as a private Bill. He therefore considered it his duty to oppose the second reading.
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, that every mill that was erected increased the evil, by silting up the river. He therefore hoped the House would read the Bill a second time.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the enactment in the clause did not at all put aside the character of the offence which the right hon. and learned Gentleman had described at common law. Its object was to avoid the necessity of having to adduce before a jury such evidence—which it was sometimes very difficult to get—as would satisfy them that the offence of cheating at common law had been committed.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he
 1420
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, that he should support the decision of the Committee of which he had the honour to be a Member. Having been an  attaché attachés attachés attachés attachés attachés 1443 1444
 MR. WHITE  said, he ventured originally to take exception to the constitution of the Committee which sat upon the question of the diplomatic service, because he knew that the result of its deliberations would lead to an augmentation of public expenditure. He had himself objected to the nomination of the present Foreign Secretary upon it, not from any invidious motive, but to raise the question of the constitution of the Committee. On the Committee there was an undue proportion of the official element—there being eight out of fifteen members either officials or ex-officials, and four others who were connected with the diplomatic service. It was easy to foresee what the Report of such a Committee would be. The hon. Member for Horsham (Mr. S. Fitzgerald) thought it strange that hon. Gentlemen below the gangway should object to the paying of  attachés attachés
 MR. DAWSON  said, he rose to call the attention of the Secretary of State for the Home Department to the system of extortionate fares demanded by the Drivers and Conductors of public conveyances in the Metropolis, and to the absence; of any proper limitation of fares in the present
 1445 "It was impossible to adopt the same regulations as to the rates and fares of omnibuses as existed in regard to hackney carriages. Omnibuses were a description of stage carriage; but the law did provide that the fares charged should be uniform for all passengers, and should be according to a scale conspicuously painted within the vehicle." The Times 1446 d s London Gazette 1447
 COLONEL KNOX  said, he had nothing to regret in the course which he had taken in the Committee. He went into that Committee perfectly unbiassed, as representing the public, and that duty he had endeavoured to discharge to the best of his ability. When he found himself in a minority upon the question of stopping the roadway at Whitehall Stairs, he came to the conclusion that the decision of the Committee must be fatal to the embankment as a great national object, because it was impossible to ask the public for money to make an embankment two miles long when of 200 yards of that distance they were not to have the use. He would say nothing about persons who were proprietors of houses along the line of the embankment, and he regretted that one of the leading journals of the country should have cast imputations upon the noble Duke who was one of these proprietors, because he was of opinion that no man could have behaved more fairly and more straightforwardly than did the noble Duke when he was before the Committee. That noble Duke said, "Let me remain as I am; but if it can be shown to me the necessity of this roadway being continued as a metropolitan improvement, I have nothing
 1459 "Do you think, then, that it would be of great public convenience to find an alternative road to Westminster which should relieve the streets that you have mentioned and a portion of their traffic?—It would be very. "Would that roadway embankment tend to relieve all the streets, by taking the traffic that wishes to go between the City and Westminster
 1460 "If it did not commence there, but adopted the course which is suggested, of terminating in Whitehall Yard, there would be no relief to Parliament Street? — None whatever, or Bridge Street. "Whereas, if it commenced at the foot of the bridge, the traffic of Bridge Street would be relieved by the City traffic being taken off at once, and so the concourse of traffic at the corner of Parliament Street greatly diminished?—It would relieve not only that traffic; but if there was an opening about Charing Cross, it would be likewise the means of a great deal of the traffic that would go to the north, to St. Martin's Lane; a great part might go, and it ought to go—it might be compelled to go that way. "Persons might, by a slight detour, avail themselves of the street in front of the Horse Guards, and so avail themselves of the embankment?—Yes; that in front of the Horse Guards would not relieve Charing Cross. "It would probably bring a larger amount of traffic to Whitehall and Charing Cross?—I think it would be very likely to aggravate the evil at Charing Cross. "You would hear, I presume, with very great regret, that such a decision should be come to that this Committee should determine to stop the line short at Whitehall Yard?—It would make a very inadequate relief to the difficulties that I have alluded to." 1461
 MR. COWPER  said, he agreed with the object of the Amendment; but he thought, as it was framed, that it would interfere with the Thames Conservancy Act.
 MR. COWPER  said, that the effect of the Amendment would be to prevent certain portions of the reclaimed land from being employed for building purposes in aid of the Thames Embankment Fund. The Amendment would also interfere with other arrangements made with the view of saving the coal duties from heavy charges for compensation. He thought, however, that the discussion on the subject might
 1477
 MR. COWPER  said, he hoped the hon. Gentleman would not press his Motion, as the subject matter had been amply discussed in the Committee upstairs.
 MR. STANHOPE  said, he should move that the Chairman should leave the Chair.
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  observed, that the Motion of the hon. Gentleman, if carried, would have the effect of putting an end to the Bill.
 MR. COWPER  said, that on the Temple waiving their right to compensation the reclaimed ground was to be made over to them, and he thought that was a very fair arrangement. The Temple Gardens were now practically public gardens.
 LORD NAAS  said, he would move the omission in Clause 8 of the words "or otherwise," concerning which there had been so much discussion on a former occasion.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, it must be admitted that there was a very considerable evil for which a remedy ought to be applied. The evil, however, was not general, but only affected a particular locality. Nevertheless, when an opportunity was presented to them of putting an end to the inconvenience, he agreed with his hon. Friend the Member for Salford (Mr. Massey) that it would be unwise not to avail themselves of it.
 MR. DENMAN  said, that he had not stated that the Committee were not governed by the consideration of the traffic. He believed that they were governed by public considerations, and the traffic was one of those considerations. All he had said was, that from the evidence he himself had come to the conclusion that the four were right and the seven were wrong.
 MR. DENMAN  said, that the perusal of the evidence led him to the conclusion that in this instance argument was all on the one side and evidence on the other, and that the majority of the Committee for once were wrong and the minority right. No Member of the House supposed for a moment that the influence of the Duke of Buccleuch or any other man could prevent the Committee from doing what they honestly deemed to be for the best. But, at the same time, it was idle to say that private interests were entirely disregarded. In his opinion they had been allowed to overweigh public interests. No doubt, the right hon. Member for Stroud was perfectly sincere in declaring that all private interests should yield to those of a public character; but he was not exactly a witness on whose evidence entire reliance should be placed, because he had a natural bias on the question whether or not the amenity of his residence was destroyed. The Duke of Buccleuch also said in his evidence that he did not think that the advantage to the public was sufficient to warrant the injury which would be done by the scheme to himself and his neighbours. The great desire to protect private interests was the reason of the counter scheme being proposed. But the question was whether those private interests were not inferior to the public convenience. Sir Richard Mayne, who was the best authority upon the subject, said in his evidence that he was obliged to place additional policemen at the corner of Bridge Street and Parliament Street, where the great confluence of traffic occurred, to protect Members coming to the House; and that, notwithstanding every precaution at
 1462
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he wished to ask whether, in the negotiations which have taken place, the claims of British subjects for compensation for the serious losses they have suffered have been considered; and, if so, whether those claims are to be met?
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, it was perfectly true that an allowance called batta money used to be granted to all classes of officers of the navy while serving in the Indian waters, but that it had ceased and determined ever since the transference of the Government of India to the Crown. There was no doubt that the position of the naval Commander in Chief in India was therefore very much less advantageous in point of pay than it was before; but it should also be remembered that the circumstances of the present day were no longer precisely what they were when the batta money was granted. In those days they had a squadron in the Indian seas. Undoubtedly living was very expensive in India, and it was thought fit that naval officers should have allowances in consequence; but at the present time the Admiral on the Indian station was practically stationed at China, and there was no necessity for him to visit India. Then came the question whether, these allowances having been
 1429
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET , said he understood the hon. and gallant Gentleman to have said that he was not so distinguished an officer as others who had gone before him, and upon that point he must beg to differ with him. The gallant Admiral had greatly distinguished himself in China. [Sir JOHN HAY: Hear, hear!] With regard to the difficulty of finding officers to take the command in India, the station was one with respect to which there would always be some difficulty. It was not everybody who wished to go to so remote a quarter of the world, and one or two officers to whom it was intended to offer the command had declined to accept it on the score of health—possibly, also, because of reasons connected with their private affairs. Practically, however, there had been on the part of the Admiralty no difficulty in finding an officer to take the command on the China station, and it was not the character of the service for officers to make any difficulty in going anywhere they were ordered. It was impossible to continue the batta money to officers of the navy in India unless they had duties on shore; but if they were employed on shore, they would receive the
 1430
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he thought the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets deserved the thanks of the House for bringing back the discussion to the intrinsic merits of the subject. He could not understand why, on a hybrid Bill like that before them, the House should forget all the considerations on which such measures were usually discussed, and should allow all the debate to turn on the name of the Duke of Buccleuch. He was quite tired of hearing the duke's name brought up in the discussion. In other Private Bills great landowners had appeared before committees by their counsel, and had had their interests considered; and if there had been any discussion afterwards on the decision of the Committee, the House, as far as he could remember, had not routed out the name of any single individual affected, and degraded itself by debating the question with reference to his interests solely. If only for the sake of its dignity, he hoped the House would decide the question on public grounds solely, and would leave the Duke of Buccleuch to take his chance with any other subject of the realm to have the road come before his house, and to take his compensation like anybody else if it were for the public advantage, or to have the road diverted in another direction if that were a greater advantage. But, at all events, let not the House of Commons present the unseemly spectacle of debating a great metropolitan improvement on the interests of a single individual. The right hon. Member for Stroud (Mr. Horsman), who had been attacked by the hon. and gallant Member for Marlow (Colonel Knox), was perfectly well able to take care of himself; and with regard to the hon. Member for Westminster (Sir John Shelley), whom he had also attacked, probably the hon. Baronet knew his constituents best; but if the gallant Member at the next general election would contest Westminster on that question as a party man, no one would be more delighted with his success than he should. The
 1465 1466 1467
 MAJOR GAVIN  said, he would beg to ask why the Proclamation under the Peace Preservation Act had been extended to the City of Limerick. he was aware that a most foul murder had been committed in a remote part of the county; but the City of Limerick was, he believed, free from crime, and the people there had suffered a great deal from the distress which prevailed during the past winter and spring; but they had borne their sufferings with admirable patience. Under these circumstances he felt obliged to ask, Why the City of Limerick had been placed under such a severe measure as the Peace Preservation Act?
 MR. AYRTON  said, that although there had been frequent discussions in the House in connection with the Thames Embankment Bill, they had little or none at all on the merits of the embankment itself. Up to that time the proceedings with regard to the project had been conducted upstairs with closed doors, and the public were apt to suspect, under such circumstances, that everything that was done was
 1453 1454 1455 1456 1457 1458
 MR. AYRTON  complained that the clause gave the garden, which it was provided should be made on the embankment opposite the Temple, exclusively to the Benchers. He thought the public ought to have the use of the garden, as it would be formed at the public expense.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the Report of the Select Committee on the Diplomatic Service. All who had read that Report must, he thought, have been struck with the unanimity which prevailed among the witnesses who gave evidence before the Committee, and with the vast mass of valuable information which the Report contained. They must also have observed with pleasure the great interest which had been taken by all our Foreign Secretaries in the welfare of the diplomatic service. A Report having been made by the Select Committee, based upon the evidence of distinguished public men, he thought it was not out of place to ask the Government, before the close of the Session, whether they intended to carry out the suggestions embodied in the Report. It was remarkable, that while the expenditure of every other department of the public service had been increased one-third during the last thirty years, the expenditure of the diplomatic profession had been reduced by a very considerable amount. Although the Army Estimates had been increased by £4,000,000 within the last few years, only a very small addition had been made to the rank and file. The increased expense had been caused by the provision of additional comforts to the army, and the same remark applied to the navy. In the diplomatic service the case was far otherwise; for although the business had increased no less than sevenfold since 1830, at which date the number of despatches which passed through the Foreign Office was 10,000 per annum, whereas it was now something like 75,000, and although
 1431 attachés attachés attachés "That the present regulations with regard to leave of absence of Ambassadors and Ministers appear to press upon them with undue severity, and that the attention of the Secretary of State may be advantageously directed to the subject." 1432 attachés "That, whenever it is practicable and fit, a residence for a term of years should be secured for the British Embassy or Mission, the rent and repairs to be defrayed at the public expense." "That the attention of the Secretary of State be directed to the salaries and allowances of the larger missions, with the view of considering whether they are adequate to meet greatly increased expenditure of living at the principal European capitals." "Do you consider the efficiency of the service has suffered from its not being so profitable as a career, or as not presenting so good an opening as other professions?" "I cannot undertake to say, as far as my experience has gone, that it has so suffered; there is, generally such a spirit among the gentlemen employed that they would rather make sacrifices out of their own means than allow the service to suffer; but it is hardly fair to leave an opening for such sacrifices. To speak from conjecture, I should presume that adequate remuneration, and the prospect of high eventual prizes, would obtain for the public a greater command of talent. I think that the appointments should be sufficient for the due performance of the duties, and that any individual employed in the diplomatic service of Her Majesty's Government should be placed on terms of society with the native gentlemen;
 1433 "In your Lordship's administration were there frequently complaints on the part of the diplomatic body as to the inadequacy of their salaries to support their position in a proper manner?—A great many." "Do yon remember what were the main grounds on which those complaints were founded?—Principally the great increase of prices everywhere, in both hemispheres. The increase of prices in South America is astonishing. We also know that at Paris everything has increased 40 per cent within our recent recollection. That, I believe, was the principal ground which they put forward when they stated that their salaries were not sufficient, and that they were obliged to trench upon their private means." "Do you consider that the present pay of heads of missions is sufficient?—I am sure that it is not. The scale of salaries, I believe, was fixed thirty or forty years ago, and I believe very properly and fairly, and even liberally, with reference to the prices of the necessaries and comforts, and perhaps even the luxuries, of life; but I believe that there is no part of Europe, or America either, in which the prices of all those things have not risen from 40 to 60 or 70 per cent; consequently the rate at which the salaries were fixed thirty or forty years ago can be hardly fair now although they were fair then, and I believe that many Ministers are put to very considerable straits." f 1434
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he would move that the Chairman should report progress. The clause involved the question as to the appropriation of the land reclaimed from the river to public purposes, which was too important to be discussed after one in the morning.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he would propose, as an Amendment, the omission of words, for the purpose of ensuring that all the portions of land reclaimed from the Thames should, without exception, be dedicated to the use of the public as places of recreation or ornamental grounds.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he would admit that the hon. Gentleman had made a very fair and impartial statement to the House. The Committee which sat last year on the diplomatic service was composed of hon. Gentlemen of great experience. They went very fully into the subject, and, after a long investigation, the Committee made a Report which contained seven recommendations. The Foreign Office were desirous of carrying out all those recommendations, which no doubt were entirely warranted by the evidence. To some extent they were put forward by Earl Russell himself; they received the almost unanimous adhesion of the members of the Committee; and the Foreign Office would have acted in accordance with the feelings of the Committee if they had been able to carry out all their recommendations at once. But it must be recollected that the Foreign Office did not hold the purse-strings, and after due consideration it was
 1435 attaché attaché attaché attachés attachés attachés attachés attachés 1436 chargé d'affaires 1437
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, that he could not, of course, give an answer with respect to any specific case. All that he was able to say was, that the French Government had given to Her Majesty's Government an assurance that any vessel that had left any British port for Mexico previous to the declaration of the blockade, should not be interfered with by the French cruisers; and, moreover, that the French Government had given an assurance to Her Majesty's Government that it was not their intention to interfere with legitimate commerce, either on the part of French or neutral vessels, its object being merely to prohibit the importation into Mexico of the munitions of war.
 MR. LAYARD  replied, that negotiations had been opened between Mr. Thornton and the President of the Republic of Paraguay, which led to the hope that very shortly friendly relations would be reestablished between the two countries. As yet the negotiations were only in progress; and, that being so, the Government could not lay the Papers on the table of the House. Mr. Hutchinson had not yet inspected the Cotton-growing districts. A request had been made by Her Majesty's Government that he might be allowed to inspect thorn; and when he had done so, he would make a Report.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he felt sure that
 1426 ex parte
 MR. LAYARD  said, he was rejoiced at being able to say that there had been an offer to pay a certain sum, which, he believed, the claimants had agreed to accept.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that having been a member of the Committee which sat nine years ago upon the embankment of the Clyde, he wished to say a few words upon the subject at present under discussion. He had long formed a strong opinion in favour of the embankment of the Thames, but he thought the embankment and the carrying a roadway from Whitehall Place to the foot of Westminster Bridge two distinct proposals. In the case of Glasgow it was necessary to provide for the traffic of a commercial district, and the Committee authorized a roadway and a railway along the quays. The case of London was different. The Committee had wisely rejected the proposal to pass a railway, even from Whitehall Place
 1463 1464
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, What progress had been made by Lord Hobart and the Turkish Loan Commission in extinguishing the paper money at Constantinople by the application of the capital of the loan to the purpose of paying it off? and to call attention to the Report of the Commission, and also to the events now occurring in Servia; and to move an Address for Copy of any Correspondence that had taken place on that subject. The Government had manifested a generous wish to assist Turkey; but in his opinion the dry-nursing system in reference to the affairs of that country had been carried too far, as it only led the Ottoman Government into a career of ambitious conquest. It was a proof of the partiality with which the Government had acted, that they were now obliged to admit that the Report of Lord Hobart and Mr. Foster had been communicated to the contractors of the loan before it had been given to the public at large. The ostensible design of the loan recently contracted was to enable the Government of Turkey to pay off certain paper money (the Caimê); but, according to the accounts which had been received, that design, however, had entirely failed, as it was proposed to pay off only 40 per cent of that money. The consequence was, that the paper money was vastly deprecated. In addition to that, it had been discovered that great forgeries had been committed, which tended still further to bring it into disrepute. He held in his hand a real and a spurious note, which he now exhibited to the House, and which were as like each other as two peas. It was difficult to ascertain which was the real and which was the false currency of that country. It was said that the present Sultan was a man of great energy, and that he was disposed to carry out a liberal and enlightened policy. He (Mr. Darby Griffith) heartily hoped that the anticipations that had been formed with respect to the Sultan would turn out to be well-founded, and that his efforts might be directed successfully to the rectification of the financial condition of the Turkish Empire. The House had received two Reports in reference to the debt of Turkey—the Turkish and the English—and they differed in every essential par-
 1424 1425
 MR. BALL  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the continuous oppressive Duty on Malt. They had had discussions upon questions of expenditure which had elicited some very able speeches. He thought that those speeches which had emanated from the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli) were calculated to do a vast deal of good. They were the handwriting on the wall which declared that no Government would ever again be allowed during a time of peace to raise a revenue of £70,000,000. A feeling had sprung up throughout the country that an immense expenditure should no longer be tolerated; and that as it was wholly unnecessary, it ought to be materially reduced. But if they had a revenue of even £75,000,000 or £80,000,000, they would be sure to spend it; and therefore their great security for the future would be their determination to refuse such large sums of money as had hitherto been asked for. If they were to abridge the revenue, he was sure that their expenditure would be cut down. Now, he did not know anything that claimed more strongly the consideration of the House and the Government than the reduction of the malt duty. Before the corn laws were abolished, it was generally admitted that the interests of agriculture would have fair claims on the consideration of the Government. They had not, however, received the consideration which had been promised. He hoped that the time would never arrive when they would suffer from a dearth of corn as they were suffering from a dearth of cotton. They had always been told that there would be an abundant supply of all commodities if free trade were fully established; but in the case of cotton it had failed to keep up the necessary supply. He hoped that the time would never arrive when a war with Russia or America would prevent a supply of corn coming into the country. He was disposed to think that the House was not aware of the amount of revenue derived from malt. Besides the £5,000,000 or £6,000,000 which were derived from the article of malt, there were £10,000,000 or £11,000,000 more from spirits; and thus the country derived about £17,000,000,
 1449 1450
 MR. HADFIELD  supported the proposal for a registration.
 MR. SPEAKER  replied, that it would be necessary to obtain the permission of the House for the purpose contemplated by the hon. Member.
 MR. DODSON  said, he was sorry to hear his hon. Friend the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs intimate that he should have been prepared to adopt the Resolution of the hon. Member opposite, if he thought the House would endure it. The hon. Gentleman opposite spoke in terms of compassion of the diplomatic service having only the sum of £180,000 a year spent upon its members; but, besides £10,000 secret service money, he (Mr. Dodson) found scattered up and down the Estimates all sorts of expenses for the diplomatic service. In the Estimates of that
 1438 attachés 1439 attachés attachés attachés attachés attachés attaché 1440
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he wished to ask whether the Government had not received from the bench of Magistrates of the City of Limerick an unanimous protest against the Proclamation of the county magistrates?
 MR. HENNESSY : I have seen it.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, his chambers looked upon the Temple Gardens, and he could inform the House that those grounds were crowded every night with children and others. The Benchers, in fact, were the only persons in London who gave free admission to their gardens.
 MR. LAIRD  said, he considered that the Bill should be made applicable to the entire of the tributaries, and he had not been aware that it was not. That matter, and the other questions referred to, could be dealt with by a Committee upstairs.
 MR. LOCKE  said, it appeared, if he were to go to a division, the noble Lord on the Treasury bench would not vote with him, and that placed him in an awkward position. He did not think the course which the noble Lord was taking was the right one. What the noble Lord meant by voting for the retention of the words was that at some future time the footway was to be turned into a roadway; but why not determine to turn it into a roadway at once? Why let the Bill go up to the other House saying, "Some day or other, when it is convenient to us, this footway shall become a roadway?" He did not know that the other House would like the Bill any better with such an introduction. After due consideration, therefore, he felt it his duty to divide the House.
 MR. LOCKE  said: I move that this clause be omitted.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he wished to move the omission, in line 33, of the words "subject to the limitations hereinafter contained." The first part of the clause provided for the making of an embankment and viaduct on the left bank of the Thames, and described the parishes through which the works would pass. The second part of the clause—in which it was he desired to make his Amendment—provided that, "subject to the limitations herein after contained," a public roadway should be made upon the embankment and viaduct 100 feet wide up to the eastern boundary
 1469 1470 reductio ad absurdum 1471 1472
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether it be not true that amicable relations have been restored between this Country and the Republic of Paraguay; if so, whether there be any objection to produce the Correspondence between the authorities at Assumption and Mr. Thornton, Her Majesty's Minister at Parana; and if any Report has been received from Mr. Hutchinson, British Consul at Rosario, in reference to the Cotton-growing capabilities of that portion of the Rio Plata, in accordance with the instructions of the Foreign Office, co-operating with the Manchester Cotton Supply Association?
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he then proposed the insertion, in Section 1, of a provision for the registration of trade marks. From the want of such a registration his constituents suffered daily by the forgery of their trade marks to inferior goods. The Prussian manufacturers were driving the English out of the foreign market by introducing worthless goods under the name and marks of English firms, thus bringing on them the character of inferior manufacturers. The Act was a very useful one; but if its provisions were so extended as to embrace the registration of trade marks, it would be much more acceptable to the country as a protective measure.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that recent experience—he alluded to the Thames Embankment Committee—afforded no recommendation to the House to alter their usual course.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, the question was who should provide the funds for effecting a public benefit. The measure was an attempt of parties to guard their interests at the public expense.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, that if a Committee of fifteen was appointed, his constituents would not have an opportunity of being heard in opposition to certain of the provisions of the Bill to which they objected.
 MR. J. C. EWART  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for
 1421
 MR. J. C. EWART  said, he thought that there was a necessity for some such measure, and he hoped it would be referred to a Select Committee.
 MR. BROWN-WESTHEAD  said, he rose to move that the Bill be read a second time that day three months. It was with great reluctance he felt himself compelled to take that course. The Bill, however, was of a very exceptional character, and came before the House in a manner that was very unusual. It was, in fact, a public measure introduced in the guise of a private Bill, and it was so designated by the highest authority in the other House of Parliament. In the House of Lords, after the Bill had passed a Committee of five, it was referred to a Committee of the Whole House, and discussed clause by clause, and on that occasion the Lord Chancellor pronounced it an opprobrium on the legislation of the country. He should inform the House that a number of tributaries ran into the River Irwell, and the Irwell Navigation Company—or rather the Earl of Ellesmere, who might be said to be the company—promoted the Bill with a view to remove obstructions caused to the navigation by the lodgment
 1414
 MR. BROWN-WESTHEAD  observed, that he was anxious that all parties should be heard before the Committee; and he wished to ask the Speaker whether that course could not be adopted if his Motion was carried.
 MR. BROWN-WESTHEAD  said, he would then move that Standing Order, No. 8, be suspended, and that the Bill be referred to a Select Committee of fifteen Members, with power to inquire into the causes of the pollution and obstruction of the rivers Mersey and Irwell and their tributaries, and into the best means of
 1418
 MR. BROWN-WESTHEAD  said, he would withdraw his Motion, as it was his belief that everything would be done to obtain a competent Select Committee of five to consider the provisions of the Bill.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, that a person who placed false representations on his goods did so with intent to defraud, and he apprehended that he would be punishable at common law for a misdemeanour. The Bill proposed to reduce an offence of that serious nature to an offence of a milder form, and directed that the party committing such an offence should only be subjected to certain penalties. Those penalties, namely, a fine of 10 s 1419
 MR. SPOONER  said, the Chancellor of the Exchequer was wrong in thinking that the question had been settled. He could, from personal experience, confirm the statement of his hon. Friend the Member for Cambridgeshire (Mr. Ball), that malt was much more valuable than barley for feeding cattle.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, the hon. and learned Member behind him (Mr Denman) seemed to think that the members of the Committee had been unconsciously led to a certain conclusion out of deference to certain influences. As a member of the Committee, he could say for himself, and he believed he spoke the sentiments of those with whom he voted, that on arriving at a conclusion he was governed by no other consideration than the traffic. The objections to bringing a large amount of traffic suddenly upon Westminster Bridge had been already stated, and he believed there would be a great and increasing traffic upon what would be the great highway between the eastern and the south-western portions of the metropolis. There was also the inconvenience of bringing that traffic upon the point where it would cross the stream of traffic passing over Westminster Bridge. He thought the Committee were justified in their conclusion, notwithstanding the evidence of Sir Richard Mayne. When Sir Richard Mayne was before them, the Committee were not aware that they could cross-examine him upon points connected with the alternative scheme. The hon. Member for Marlow (Colonel Knox) had referred to the block of traffic at the bottom of Ludgate Hill, where the traffic along Fleet Street and Ludgate Hill was struck by the traffic along Farringdon Street and Bridge Street; and it was because the Committee believed that there would be a worse block at the foot of Westminster Bridge, that they came to the conclusion at which they arrived. He repeated that the question of traffic was the sole consideration that had guided the Committee, and it was not fair for hon. Members to impute that they were governed by other motives; and if such an imputation should be again made, he begged to say that the hon. Gentleman making it was stating what was not the fact.
 MR. BARNES  said, it would be most
 1417
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he could not agree with the argument that they ought to reject the Bill because it invaded private rights. All private Bills did that. He thought there was no more competent tribunal to inquire into questions of the kind than a Select Committee. Although he entertained grave objections to the Bill, he did not think these would warrant him in refusing to send a Bill to a Select Committee.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the Committee to whom the Bill had been referred had well considered the question, and had come to the conclusion that, at present at least, it would not be expedient to attempt to establish a registration of trade marks. His objection to it was one of principle, as he did not see why previous registration of a mark should be made the condition of obtaining a legal protection. The forgery of a mark was like the forgery of a check on a bank. If an intent to defraud him was proved, a man was entitled to protection, without being put to the expense of registration. He thought that a registration would be rather an impediment to prosecution.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  seconded the Motion.
 MR. SCULLY  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Has his attention been called to the Resolution adopted by the Grand Jury of the County of Tipperary, at the late Special Commission in Clonmel, complaining of defects in the Irish Constabulary system, "owing to the Military organization established at Head Quarters;" and is it intended to remedy those defects by reforming that organization?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Member had with great fairness stated his reason against the continuance of the malt tax. Nevertheless, in dealing with the question, he had overlooked some important considerations connected with the subject. When a complaint was made that there had been no considerable increase in the consumption of malt, it was but fair to take into view the fact that during the period to which the hon. Member had referred the country was becoming a community consuming a much less average quantity of strong liquors than formerly. Let the House consider what was the consumption during the period alluded to of spirits and wine. The consumption of wine, until the recent change, was stationary; and the consumption of spirits, he apprehended, had positively receded. The hon. Member, when he said that barley laboured under oppressive taxation, ought to bear in mind the average prices for barley for the last ten and twenty, or forty and sixty years, and he would then perceive that barley was a grain of which the progress in price had been much more marked than that of any other grain. That was a conclusive answer to the statement of the hon. Member, that barley was a grain unduly ground down by taxation. The system of this country was to levy a large portion of revenue from strong liquors; and how was malt treated as compared with other strong liquors? Without saying that it was less taxed than it ought to be, he, nevertheless, maintained that it was treated with mildness. The tax on alcohol in beer was at the rate of about 2 s s s s 1451 s d s d s s 1452
 MR. GARNETT  said, that under the circumstances, he would withdraw the Amendment, and renew it in an amended form upon the Report.
 MR. GARNETT  said, he would propose the addition of the following proviso, "Provided that, except with the previous consent of the Charing Cross Railway Company in writing under their common seal, no stairs, hard, quay, wharf, pier, or landing-place, shall be made within 200 yards of that company's steamboat pier or landing-place at Hungerford."
 MR. MASSEY  said, the Motion was, in effect, to reverse the order of proceeding with regard to private Bills, inasmuch as the House had specially appointed Committees for entertaining questions of the kind.
 MR. MASSEY  said, that no doubt the Bill was of a very extraordinary character. It was hard on a cursory glance to discern any features which could distinguish it from a public measure. It was a very unusual thing to affect by private legislation the interests of large towns and
 1415 1416
 MR. MONSELL : Will the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary say whether he has received such a protest?
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he rose to protest against any increase in the expenditure of the country. Only a few evenings previously there was a discussion in that House on the public charges, and it was then agreed on all sides that the expenditure ought to be reduced. Yet the Foreign Office were ready to increase the burdens of the people, and, as he believed, without any just reason. When the Committee was moved for, he (Mr. Williams) stated, that unless very great care was taken, the result would be to increase the public expenditure; and so it had proved from what had just been stated on the part of the Government. He contended that the diplomatic service was, as a rule, rather overpaid than underpaid. The Ambassador at Paris had a salary of £10,000 a year, with house rent, provided for him, and frequent demands on the country for furniture and other such expenses, and yet he said that his salary was insufficient. Certainly he could not spend that amount on anything connected with the duties of his office. It could only be in entertaining distinguished personages from his own country, and that was a purpose for which the people of this country ought not to be taxed. He was not surprised at the Government sanctioning increased expenditure in the department, because, of course, it would give them increased patronage. If they assented to increase the salaries and allowances of the diplomatic service, they would soon be again asked to augment them further. He hoped, therefore, the question would not be entertained.
 MR. FRANK CROSSLEY  said, he was of opinion that the Bill did not go far enough. He hoped to see it restored to the shape in which it was originally introduced, so that its operation would extend to all the tributaries referred to.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he was sorry the answer which he gave a short time previously did not appear sufficient to the hon. Gentleman. There was a great distinction between cabs, which plied for hire for uncertain distances, and omnibuses, which, like stage-coaches, plied between certain given points. Still, some of the suggestions of the hon. Gentleman were worth consideration. On the other hand, the law already provided for some of the cases mentioned by the hon. Gentleman. For instance, omnibus "nursing" accompanied with violence or obstruction, was an offence which was already punished by suspension of licences, and by fine. Many of the complaints made as to the public vehicles of the metropolis were caused by the very unusual demand for them. In ordinary times competition was the best security for low fares in omnibuses; but at present the demand much exceeded the supply, and that was even more true of cabs than of omnibuses. Then, with regard to police prosecutions, the police had received instructions, upon which they acted, to watch the conduct of cab-drivers where they refused to take up passengers; and numerous cases had occurred in which, upon the information of the police, cab-drivers had been fined and their licences suspended. It was impossible at such a time to prevent the misconduct of individual drivers, and in all cases to secure their punishment; but the police were doing everything they could to protect the public, both Englishmen and foreigners, against imposition. With regard to the inconvenience of the present omnibus, Parliament could not well prescribe the form of the vehicle, or make any minute regulations respecting it; but one improvement would certainly be, that the table of fares should be painted outside as well as in. It was hardly worth while to bring in a Bill on purpose to effect that object; but it might be desirable at an early period to revise the law with regard to public vehicles, and then he would bear in
 1448
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had only received a letter from Mr. Spring Rice expressing dissatisfaction that his property had been included in the Proclamation, and in reply he had informed that gentleman that the Proclamation of the county had been agreed to almost unanimously at a meeting of County Magistrates. The Government had received no official remonstrance or protest.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, If it is the intention of the Admiralty to make any increase in the pay and allowances to the Naval Commander in Chief in India in consequence of the stoppage of the allowance hitherto paid as batta to the Naval Commander in Chief by the Indian Government: if any inconvenience has arisen in the selection of an Officer for that command in consequence of this redaction of pay? and, to move an Address for Return of the pay and allowances of the Military Officer in Her Majesty's Forces in India of similar rank to the Naval Commander in Chief in India. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for India had, owing to some embarrassment in the finances of the country, thought fit to reduce the pay of certain naval officers serving in India, and among them that of the naval Commander and others, to the extent of £8,000 a year. Without going into details, he might observe that the pay of the Admiral commanding in chief on the Indian station was, up to a recent date £5,221 a year, and that by a stroke of the pen the sum had been reduced to £2,190, or by considerably more than half the amount of the salary which he had hitherto received. It had been the custom to pay a certain amount to the naval Commander in Chief as batta money, and the commodore received half that sum, and the other officers in proportion. The whole of those allowances had now been taken away. He should not have alluded to the subject, had it not been—and the gallant Admiral the Member for Devonport would bear him out in the statement—that under ordinary circumstances it was impossible for the naval Commander in Chief in India to perform the duties of his station and pay the expenses which necessarily devolved upon him for a sum of less than £2,000 a year; and whoever accepted that command under existing circumstances would, in all probability, be £400 or £500 a year out of pocket in the performance of his duty to the Crown. That the naval commander should be placed in such a position could not he, he felt assured, the wish of the House. It might be said that the amount was sufficient, inasmuch as there was no difficulty in procuring officers to fill the command; but he should like to know from the Secretary for the Admi-
 1428
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he wished to say one word in explanation. It was far from his intention to cast any slur upon the present naval Commander in Chief in India. What he meant to say was, that it used to be the practice to appoint to that command only such persons as had served as flag officers, and that though the gallant Admiral had distinguished himself in China, he had not attained that position.
 SIR JOHN HAY  denied he had cast any reflection upon the gallant Admiral.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, as so much had been made of Sir Richard Mayne's evidence, and the Committee had been taunted with not having cross-examined him, he begged to say he could not admit that gentleman's authority as decisive. Any one who travelled through London could judge of the traffic as well as the Chief Commissioner of Police. He would answer Sir Richard Mayne by Sir Richard Mayne. Here was Sir Richard Mayne's evidence before the Royal Commission. He was asked by Sir Joshua Jebb whether, putting aside the question of public or private interests, he would advise getting on to the embankment near Westminster Bridge, or getting on to it near Whitehall Place; and his answer was—"I think it would be very important that there should be an approach to it at Westminster Bridge, but I think (alluding to Mr. Pennethorne's plan) the other would, perhaps, be as good in effecting the whole object." [An hon. MEMBER: Read the next question.] He would do so. Mr. Hunt asked Sir Richard Mayne—"You mean in addition?" and his answer was—"Yes; both are of the greatest importance." The remainder of the same answer was this—" If persons were required to go the whole line from Bridge Street to Blackfriars, very few indeed would use it." How those last words were to be explained he did not know.
 SIR JOSEPH PAXTON  said, that as the originator of the scheme and as one of the Committee who strongly advocated the embankment from Blackfriars to Westminster, he should give his cordial support to the proposal of the hon. and learned Gentleman. With regard to the remarks made by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Horsman) upon the constitution of the Committee of 1860, he had endeavoured, with the assistance of the First Commissioner, to make it as impartial a Committee as possible, and one that should fully represent all the interests concerned; and, remembering the character and position of men like the noble Lord (Lord J. Manners) and the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Pakington), he thought these criticisms might have been spared. He was very sorry that it was not possible to carry the high-level embankment which had been suggested; but he was astonished that the hon. Baronet (Sir J. Shelley) and his hon. Friend (Mr. Tite) and those who before never raised an objection about delivering the traffic at right angles on to the bridges, should now have such great objections to the present proposal. All the principal plans submitted to the Committee of 1860 contemplated the crossing of all the bridges by the embankment at right angles, and that was also the case with the bridges and thoroughfares of every capital in Europe. He thought the Committee on the Bill had acted with precipitation, for as soon as the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Stroud had given his evidence, a Resolution was moved by the right hon. Gentleman (Sir W. Jolliffe), that the embankment ought to stop at Whitehall Stairs. [Sir W. JOILIFFE: Not the embankment.] No, the roadway. The Committee affirmed that Resolution, because they were satisfied by an alternative plan of Mr. Pennethorne's. He (Sir J. Paxton), however, moved an Amendment, that as the promoters of the Bill had had no opportunity of giving evidence on Mr. Pennethorne's plan, it would be premature to conclude that the roadway ought to stop at Whitehall Stairs. That Amendment was negatived; but he believed that if Mr. Pennethorne's scheme were carried out, the embankment would be the laughing-stock of Europe. He could hardly have conceived that Mr. Pennethorne could have proposed to bring a road at so ob-
 1474
 SIR MICHAEL SEYMOUR  said, he was enabled to confirm all that had fallen from his hon. and gallant Friend. The naval Commander in Chief in India and China would in future have to serve under a salary of less than half the amount formerly paid, while the expenses in that part of the world were larger than the expenses of any other station. He trusted that the subject would receive the attention of the Admiralty, and that the injustice alluded to would be removed.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he was not aware of any such protest.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he was in receipt of the Resolution to which the hon. and learned Gentleman had referred, and a copy of it had been, or would be, forwarded to the Lord Lieutenant. He was glad to find that in the Resolution the grand jury had recorded their opinion of the good conduct, sobriety, and general intelligence of the Constabulary Force in Ireland. In regard to the question about "military organization at head quarters," he (Sir Robert Peel) did not know what it meant, as the present organization of the force was precisely the same as it had been for years, with the exception that the arms with which the force had been furnished were of a more excellent quality than those previously supplied. The Government, so far as at present advised, had no
 1422
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, the Proclamation of the county was adopted almost unanimously by the county magistrates. The hon. and gallant Member would remember that the City of Limerick extended more than six miles into the county, and the municipal boundary of the city was very wide. Under these circumstances it was thought that the Proclamation would have no operation if it did not include the City of Limerick.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, he was always glad to hear those speeches of the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. Williams) in which that hon. Gentleman advocated economy in the public expenditure; but when he heard the speech delivered by him that evening, it struck him that the hon. Gentleman could never have read the voluminous evidence taken by the Committee that had sat on these questions. The hon. Gentleman expressed his opinion that the public servants in the diplomatic service were notoriously overpaid, and added that, so far as he knew, there was no complaint from any of them of the insufficiency of the remuneration which they received. The fact was, that there was not one single public servant connected with the diplomatic service who did not only complain, but give absolute and positive proof, that the remuneration which he received from the country was utterly insufficient to meet the expenses which he was required to undergo. The object of the Government and the House should be to obtain the services of men of ability; but if public servants were underpaid, the tendency of such a state of things must be to limit the candidates for diplomatic appointments to those who could be entirely independent of the remuneration attached to these posts. In illustration of that, he could mention a fact of which he was aware before he took any part in public life. A Government was very desirous of changing their representative in this country, whom they thought not the most efficient public servant they could select; but, notwithstanding that desire, the Minister to whom he referred continued to hold his appointment for five or six years after his Government wished to remove him, because, in consequence of the insufficient salary, no one could be found to undertake the duties of the office, which his private fortune enabled him to hold. He did not mean to say that such a thing could happen in this country; for here it could not be said that diplomatic salaries were utterly insufficient, although it might be true that they were not alto-
 1441 "The Government admit the case presented to them by the Committee. We agree in their recommendations. We think the public servants in the diplomatic department underpaid, and that they are called on to make sacrifices of their private fortune; but though this injustice is admitted, we say we cannot afford to be just, because at the present time our finances are not in the most flourishing condition." chargé d'affaires 1442
 MR. JACKSON  said, that several Bills of a similar nature had been considered private Bills. The general commerce of the country required that the navigation of the river Mersey should be kept open and unobstructed. He hoped the House would agree to send the Bill to a Select Committee; and if on its return it was found that the proprietors on all the tributary streams were not included in its provisions, he would support a Motion to add clauses which would have the effect of extending its operation to them.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, it was a mistake to put aside the traffic question, and to set up the Duke of Buccleuch instead. The Duke of Buccleuch had nothing to do with the matter; and the traffic question was the whole question. The point to be considered was, "How are you to free the traffic along Bridge Street?" If they had a road which branched off at the foot of Westminster Bridge, to accommodate the traffic between east and west, a great deal more traffic must necessarily be carried into Bridge Street than was there already, and they would therefore only aggravate the evil which they desired to cure. That was the point upon, which the Committee had to decide, and which the Committee did decide by refusing to bring that traffic into an already overcrowded street, where the lives of Members of Parliament were so much risked. There was another question of great importance. One of the disadvantages of the low embankment was that it would stop all the conveyance of heavy goods to the wharves on that side of the river, so that the road traffic would be increased considerably. Mr. M'Neil, the manager of a wharf near Blackfriars Bridge, said that by thus putting a stop to the conveyance of goods by barges his firm would have to make arrangements for the carriage of all their goods by cars, instead of by the river, and the street traffic would thus be enormously increased. Such would be the case with coals, and that was one
 1473
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, it was impossible to proceed with the Bill at so late an hour—twenty minutes past one o'clock. He thought, however, that the unopposed clauses might be agreed to.
 VISCOUNT NEWPORT  said, he also should oppose the second reading. He considered it highly objectionable and unjust that parties who were in a similar position to those against whom the measure was aimed should be excluded from its operation.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, having given notice of an Amendment on this subject, and as my hon. and learned Friend has stated that the present Amendment, although it relates to another clause, really involves a decision on the 9th clause, I am anxious to state the considerations by which my vote will be governed. Sir, my natural desire in dealing with the 9th clause has been to make the same Motion as that of which my hon. and learned Friend has given notice, and to move that that clause be wholly expunged. I entirely agree, that if the arrangement which this clause professed to establish were carried out, it would, in the words of my hon. Friend (Sir Joseph Paxton), really make our legislation the laughing-stock of Europe. The first objection, which was urged and debated at great length last night, was the injury that it was proposed to do to the Crown lessees. That objection is now abandoned. [An hon. MEMBER: No.] Then, if that objection is still maintained, and if the question is one between the interests of private individuals and those of the public, I shall be against sacrificing the interests of the public. But the great argument that has been used to night is, that this road is not wanted for the sake of traffic, and that it would be an injury to the traffic to have two roads instead of one. What is desired is, that in the embankment there should be a roadway eighty feet wide to Westminster Bridge; but when you come to Whitehall Stairs, your driver is to be stopped and told, "This is a very fine road, and free from obstacles, but you cannot go any further. You must stop, because we mean to spend £300,000 or £400,000 in addition; we mean to pull down a number of houses, and make another road to deliver you into the small and inconvenient crossing through Bridge Street, which is already insufficient for the traffic." That appears to me to be the most absurd reasoning, and my first impulse was to move the
 1475
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : After the decision which the Committee has just come to upon the Motion of my hon. and learned Friend, of course I do not intend to propose my Amendment. I shall not, therefore, resist the Motion to omit the clause.
 MR. ASPINALL TURNER  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether (seeing by the Return recently made that the quantity of Foreign Paper imported is far more important than the quantity of Rags imported, or the quantity of Paper exported, both of which appear in the Returns of Trade and Navigation) he will order that in future the quantity of Foreign Paper imported shall appear in the usual monthly Returns?
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  replied, that Mr. Whyte, late Assistant Surgeon in the Staffordshire Militia, was removed by the Secretary for War, upon the recommendation of the Lord Lieutenant of the county. He did not resign, but was removed from his position; and it was therefore impossible to produce his resignation. It was the duty of the Clerk of the Peace to insert notices of this description in the  Gazette
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  said, that if the hon. Member would specify the documents he wanted, he should be glad to consider whether they could be laid on the table.
 LORD JOHN MANNEES  said, he wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether this Bill, which stood last on the Paper for that night, was a Government measure, and when he proposes to move the second reading?
 MR. COWPER  said, he was authorized to state that the delay complained of would not be further prolonged. The Commissioners had nearly completed their Report, and expected to be able to present it very shortly.
 LORD JOHN MANNEES  moved that that clause be struck out. The Committee were, perhaps, aware that this Clause did not appear in the original draft of the Bill, and was only carried in the Select Committee by a majority of one. He objected to it on principle. It contained a principle utterly opposed to that which had hitherto guided Parliament in dealing with measures connected with other departments of the State. Parliament had wisely sought to establish responsibility by concentrating authority. The present clause, however, proposed to give the First Commissioner of Works power over the Metropolitan Board in relation to certain works connected with the proposed embankment. That was a species of double government or authority which Parliament had abolished in reference to the War Department, with respect to India, and in other departments. He was sorry to differ with his hon. Friend the Member for Dorsetshire (Mr. K. Seymer), who was its author, as to the merits of this clause. To say the least of it, it would establish a principle which would necessarily place the First Commissioner of Public Works, in an invidious position. The Metropolitan Board of Works, who were charged with the execution of a most gigantic undertaking, were nevertheless to be held incompetent to decide upon the colour of the seat, or the design of the drinking fountains to be placed on the line of embankment. Now, in his opinion,
 1505 1506
 MR. COWPER  thought the noble Lord's anxious appeal on behalf of economy was particularly misplaced, inasmuch as that question was not in any degree involved in this clause. He did not himself propose the clause, but he listened most attentively to the debate in Select Committee upon it, and he felt that the arguments of the hon. Member for Dorsetshire were conclusive for inserting the clause in the Bill. The object of the clause was to secure some unity of design and harmonious arrangement in the buildings that were hereafter to face the Thames. Those who compared London with the more splendid Continental capitals would see that the great defect of our streets—especially of our older streets—was that they were not built on any general plan, but were left to the individual caprice of the owners of separate houses. A small house, for example, was found standing between two very tall ones, or a stuccoed house between two brick ones. They were not in a style which any variety could render picturesque, and their irregularities prevented the broad architectural effect which plain houses might produce when symmetrically arranged on a general plan. This clause was intended to remedy that defect, and would not make buildings any more expensive. The embankment, which was to be 100 feet wide, would be one of the great features of London. On the one side of the proposed quay would lie the river which was the pride of England, and on the other there would be a considerable extent of ornamental ground, and in some parts rows of houses, in terraces or streets. He thought it essential to the general architectural effect that those houses should be erected on some
 1510 laissez faire 1511
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, he should oppose the clause, believing that it would entail a very serious expense for all time on parties desirous of building on the river frontage; and he thought the noble Lord (Lord John Manners) deserved the gratitude of the metropolis for the course which he had taken in proposing the omission of the clause,
 MR. COWPER  said, it was desirable that all the land which was available for the recreation of the public along the embankment should be dedicated to that purpose. Clause 28 made a provision with that view in regard to the space between Cecil Street and Northumberland Street; but he did not think the land east of Cecil Street could with advantage be so appropriated. Where the reclaimed land amounted only to a narrow strip, the space must be devoted to building purposes: his hon. Friend's Amendment would prevent that. The Thames Conservancy Board were invested with authority to construct and improve all the landing-places and stairs on the river, and the plan which he believed would be adopted in front of the embankment would be floating stages, which rise and fall with the flow of the tide.
 COLONEL KNOX  said, that the Commit-
 1516
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  observed, there was now a general measure applicable to all towns as to those engines, the Home Secretary having power to prohibit steam locomotives travelling particular streets. He thought it best not to disturb the general law, but to leave it applicable to this as to other roads, the Secretary of State having power to interfere if the public safety required it.
 MR. COWPER  replied, that the funds available were derived from the surplus of the London Bridge Approaches Fund, the amount of which was not ascertained. To carry out the construction of the embankment about £1,000,000 would be required from the coal and other duties, and these would probably furnish a surplus of £500,000 more than would be requisite. All the funds were paid to the Treasury, and must be transfer-
 1517
 MR. COWPER  said, he had not thought it necessary to make a statement, because he was not asking the House to vote the money. The clause simply stated how the funds in the hands of the Treasury by the Act of last year were to be appropriated. Mr. Scott, the Chamberlain of the City of London, had been examined before the Committee, and gave such details as they required, and the hon. Gentleman would find in his evidence all the information he asked for. The Committee considered the question of the amounts provided and to be expended; but this clause did not refer to those details. With regard to the general object of the clause:—First the expenses incidental to the obtaining of the Act were, as usual in such a case, to be paid. The hon. Member could not, he thought, have read the evidence given before the Committee, or he would have seen that he was entirely mistaken in supposing that two sets of solicitors had been employed. The persons employed were the solicitors and the Parliamentary agents; and when the hon. Gentleman said that a solicitor had come from Hertford to act as Parliamentary agent, he begged to inform him that the firm in question had been Parliamentary agents for several years. He had known them as highly respectable Parliamentary
 1518
 COLONEL KNOX  said, he thought the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets could not have read the Select Committee's Report, or he would not have made the observations he had done. The City Chamberlain's evidence afforded the information which the hon. Gentleman sought.
 MR. COWPER  said, with respect to the last point it was not within his cognizance. The Treasury had been intrusted by law with the fund, and he was not acquainted with what had been done with regard to it. The hon. Baronet must put his ques-
 1521 Law List 1522
 MR. COWPER  said, that as the solicitor to the Board of Works was paid by salary, he would receive nothing with regard to this Bill. As to the second question, the Act of last year provided that any surplus existing from the London Bridge Approaches Fund should be paid to the Treasury and become part of the Thames Embankment Fund. What that surplus was had not yet been decided, some items being disputed; but the Committee was quite safe in enacting, that when the Treasury should decide what the surplus was, it should be added to the Thames Embankment Fund.
 MR. COWPER  said, that the expense of the low-level sewer was kept quite distinct from those of the embankment, and would not come out of the coal duties. The expense would be defrayed out of the main drainage rate.
 MR. COWPER , in reference to the expenses, remarked, that there was an understanding between the parties concerned that the bill of costs should be taxed by an officer of the House.
 MR. COWPER  could not agree that the Committee considered the street a mistake. If the matter had been discussed, he thought the reasons in favour of it would have satisfied the Committee that they would have been quite right in passing it.
 MR. COWPER  said, that no money was to be paid to the Crown for the foreshore in front of the Crown property. The bargain which had been made was this:—As to the land between Whitehall Stairs and Richmond Terrace, the Crown gave up its right to embank this shore for its own profit, together with all claims to the land which was required for the roadway, and all claim to compensation for damage done; and in return it would get no money, but only the reclaimed land. He was advised that this was a fair arrangement, and better terms would not have been obtained in any other way. As regarded the foreshore not in front of Crown property, the Board of Conservancy were to have their rights valued, and one-third of the amount would go to the Crown. That also, he believed, was a perfectly fair arrangement.
 MR. COWPER  said, that in a sanitary point of view it would be desirable to get rid of the Gas Works, but it would be rather hard to throw on the coal duties the burden of the compensation which the Gas Company would have a right to expect if they were called upon to remove their works. It was that consideration which influenced the Committee in adopting the clause. Since, therefore,
 1528
 MR. COWPER  observed, that the Gas Company did not think they would obtain any advantage from the change, and would rather be left as they are.
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  hoped that the whole of the Temple Gardens were to be included in the clause. They were about to have valuable river front, and he thought it would be a great improvement to the Bill if Parliament were to impose such regulations on the Benchers as would prevent their shutting up the gardens from the public.
 MR. MONTAGUE SMITH  said, it was a mistake to suppose that a valuable river front was about to be given to the Benchers of the Temple. In fact their river front was being taken away from them. They were merely to receive some strips of land for which they could not obtain one farthing of rent. The gardens had always been kept in order at the expense of the Societies, and certainly were considered to contribute to the adornment of London. When it was said that they were the private property of the Benchers, the fact was that nobody in London used the gardens so little as the Benchers, who were nearly always absent. But the Benchers were not so fastidious as had been described; they admitted on summer evenings to the gardens those dirty children from poor neighbourhoods of whom the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Ayrton) spoke so contemptuously the other night as being likely to play about on the embankment between Whitehall and Westminster Bridge, to the annoyance of the neigh-
 1531
 MR. COWPER , while sympathizing with the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets in his desire to see the Temple Gardens used as freely as possible by the public, thought the clause proposed would not effect the object which the hon. Gentleman had in view. The public were at present admitted to the gardens under certain restrictions, which were of by no means an illiberal tendency. But now the learned Member proposed that the Crown should have the power of overriding the decision of the Benchers in that respect. That was a proposal which he did not think it would be worth while to embody in the Bill. He might add that he did not concur with those who thought that the Benchers had been exacting in their demands in connection with the proposed embankment, inasmuch as it would interfere prejudicially with the existing river frontage of their property.
 MR. COWPER : I suppose one word is required from me, and I wish to explain that when I stated the accusation of the hon. Baronet the Member for Westminster (Sir J. Shelley) was not a true accusation, but was founded altogether on a mistake, what I understood him to charge me with was, that I had altered his Resolution surreptitiously, and on my own account, and not in my capacity as Chairman of the Select Committee, endeavouring to give effect to what I believed to be the unanimous wish of the Committee. I said I thought it not fair —I believe I used stronger language—I
 1534
 THE CHAIRMAN : The question was as to whether a certain clause should stand part of the Bill. The hon. Gentleman
 1535
 SIR GEORGE LEWIS  admitted that there was a difference of opinion, as to some of these forts; and the Government had found it their duty to object to many of the opinions that had been expressed. But on one subject he thought they were all agreed—that whatever might be the decision of the House, it should be founded on clear data; that there should be no misunderstanding as to the proposals of the Government; and that when once there was a decision of the House, embodied in an Act of Parliament, it should be strictly observed by the executive Government. He was therefore quite prepared to take any course which should correspond with that principle. The hon. Baronet had Stated with fairness that the information the Government had given was satisfac-
 1538
 MR. LINDSAY  said, that when the noble Viscount at the head of the Government brought this subject before the House two years ago, he alleged as the reason
 1539 attaché 1540 Magenta Solferino 1541 "You have a full statement of our navy in a blue-book placed in a solemn manner before your House. You hare it from the lips of the Minister of our navy. You were told by our Minister, privately as well as publicly, that of iron-cased vessels France has only one at this moment fit for sea, namely,  La Gloire La Gloire Magenta Solferino "The practical point we arrive at is, that the French are rapidly preparing 15 powerful armour-plated ships, to be added to 9 of a different description also covered with armour, giving them in the whole a force of 24 armour-covered ships, exclusive of the old batteries which were used during the Russian war…. Admiral Elliot assures me…. that in every one of the yards which he visited the utmost efforts are being made to press all those ships forward to completion. I have no wish to excite alarm by making this statement.… The point to which I invite attention is, that whatever may be the motive of France, the practical result is that we are rapidly becoming the second maritime Power of Europe." [3  Hansard 1542 1543 La Gloire 1544 Magenta Solferino 1545
 COLONEL DICKSON  hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would not be induced to withdraw the measure.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, What has been done by the Government of India, in pursuance of Lord Stanley's Despatch of the 24th day of February, 1859, on the subject of rescinding certain Laws now in force in India which connect the Government of India with the special care of Lands belonging to Mohammedan Mosques and Hindoo Temples?
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, When a Report may be expected from Mr. Seymour Tremenheere, who was appointed in July, 1861, a Commissioner to inquire into the complaints of the Journeymen Bakers of London; and whether it will be or is intended to extend the inquiry as promised, if required, to Scotland and Ireland?
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to proceed at once with the works at Holyhead, that is to say, with the strengthening of the pier and putting the roof upon it. The Government thought it due to the passengers, both to and from Ireland, that the work should be at once taken in hand without waiting for the conclusion of the negotiations between the London and North-Western and the Dublin Steam Packet Companies. He hoped, when the pier was completed, that the packets would keep their time.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : My hon. Friend the Member for Sunderland has, I am happy to say, rectified a great many of the misstatements which he made, I have no doubt unintentionally, in our recent discussions in regard to the numbers of the French navy. Now, I should be ready to remark on his quotations from previous speeches of mine, but I certainly think it unadvisable that we should have these periodical debates on the relative strength of the French and English navies, entering into all these details. Every word that my noble Friend (Viscount Palmerston) has at various times stated with regard to the strength of the French navy is perfectly correct, and has been corroborated to night by the hon. Member for Sunderland himself. He has given every ship, every frigate, and every floating battery which my noble Friend and I had before enumerated, and he has stated the numbers, the force, and all the other details connected with them. The only point, as I understand it, upon which we are at issue is as to the state of forwardness of those ships. With respect to tonnage, my hon. Friend knows as well as I can tell him that that is not one half as important as the question of guns. It is perfectly well known that the ships of our navy have always had to carry fewer guns in proportion to their tonnage than those of any other navy. And why? Because our business has been, and is, to send our ships all over the world. They have to go wherever they may have to meet an enemy—north, south, cast, or west; whereas other Powers do not require to have their navy in so complete a seagoing state as ours. Undoubtedly, there-
 1546
 LORD HARRY VANE  said, the Select Committee had made the fairest arrangement with the Company which it was possible to make, and the Company, on the whole, thought themselves rather hardly dealt with.
 LORD HARRY VANE  said, that when these clauses were proposed in the Committee, they were thought to be rather sharp practice. The feeling of the Committee was, that all parties being called upon for some sacrifice, the Crown might well forego its claims to the foreshore. But, on the contrary, these claims were put forward in the most marked manner. That there was to be no money payment in respect of the foreshore in front of the Crown estates made very little difference. The Committee had certainly thought that it would have been better if the extreme rights of the Crown had not been so hardly pressed; but they could not help themselves in the matter, and had no resource but to accept these clauses.
 LORD HARRY VANE : It is not to be so paid for.
 LORD HARRY VANE  said, he should support the clause, for he thought the reasons assigned in Committee by the hon. Member for Dorsetshire (Mr. Ker Seymer) and the right hon. Gentleman the First Commissioner perfectly satisfactory. The clause was, in the first instance, submitted to the counsel who watched the case on the part of the Metropolitan Board in the Select Committee, and they did not object to it, but left the matter entirely in the hands of the Committee. He should be sorry to diminish the power of local self-government by removing from the Metropolitan Board any duty that properly belonged to them; but the present case was one of an exceptional character, and it would be a thousand pities if the opportunity should be lost of rendering the embankment an ornament to the metropolis, and preventing the frontage of the river being destroyed and disgraced by some monstrous erection or other. The clause could not be productive of any greatly-increased expense, because the greater portion of the reclaimed land would be appropriated to public purpose, and would not be built upon.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, the noble Lord wanted to secure unity of design and consistency of purpose. Some Gentlemen might consider unity of design good, and others bad; but, whether good or bad, they were more likely to get it if they permitted one board, which was to commence and carry out the work, to decide, than if they permitted a fluctuating officer, such as the First Commissioner of Works, who was here to-day and away tomorrow, to interfere. They all knew the differences of taste in different Commissioners of Works, and yet the noble Lord would look for uniformity of design in leaving the decision to such officials. The buildings in the Regent's Park were not erected by a great municipal corporation, who were to be interfered with at every turn by the executive Government of the day, but by one Government Department, who had nobody to interfere with it. They called in one of the great architects of the day, and the great scheme of building was carried into effect. If, therefore, the Committee desired uniformity of plan, let them reject the clause and leave the responsibility to the Metropolitan Board.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that having read the correspondence that had taken place between the Departments, he could not see that Mr. Gore had done anything more than follow out the instructions of his superiors at the Treasury. It had been said that this was an unusual interference on the part of the Grown; but nothing could be more common than the announcement in that House of the con-
 1527
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he entertained no very high opinion either of the Board of Works or of the Metropolitan Board so far as related to questions of economy or taste. The proposal under discussion was, he might add, simply one to saddle the citizens of London with the payment of a certain amount of money which the right hon. Gentleman the First Commissioner was to be at liberty to spend —a proposal to which, as one who lived principally in the metropolis, he for one decidedly objected. It was, in his opinion, quite an alarming power with which to invest the right hon. Gentleman at the expense of the coal-consumers of this large city, to say that he should be able to put his veto on works of utility merely because they did not suit his own particular architectural views. What, he should like to know, would the hon. Members for Manchester or Birmingham think of such a scheme if it were proposed to give it effect
 1509 s s
 MR. AYRTON  thought they should have a more detailed explanation. First the fund was to be liable for the charges upon the London Bridge approaches fund. Next, payment was to be provided from the same source of all costs of obtaining the Act. How was this to be considered? Was the fund to be debited with the charges incurred by the right hon. Gentleman's department in connection with the Act. He understood that the right hon. Gentleman had not employed the officers of his department in preparing the Act, but two firms of solicitors, Messrs. Baxter, Rose, and Norton, and Messrs. Marchant and Pear, of Hertford. Were both those firms to be paid out of this fund; and, if so, was the Department to be paid out of it also for the assistance they had rendered? In the next clause reference was made to so much of the Thames embankment fund as might remain after deducting those charges. What was that sum? He thought they ought to have in such a case a detailed statement of the fund, and of the charges upon it.
 MR. AYRTON  asked for some explanation as to the amount of the funds which were available for the purposes of this Bill and the charges upon it.
 MR. AYRTON  rose to move a new clause. He said the other day, he objected to the provision by which the Societies of the Inner and Middle Temple were to be allowed to appropriate to their exclusive use the land which was to be reclaimed in front of their gardens, except only so much of it as the roadway would require. These Societies had preferred a claim greater than any other person—far greater than that of the Crown, because the Crown was acknowledged to have a right to embank in front of its lands. But the Societies had no interest in the foreshore, except as far as a landing-place was concerned, and a landing-place was to be reconstructed for them by an express clause in the Bill. The ratepayers of the metropolis were to be compelled to make an embankment in front of the gardens, but the Temple was to contribute nothing, and yet was to receive all the surplus land. Noblemen and gentlemen had made demands, but those demands were within the limit of their rights; and if they received any land, they were to pay for it the full value. But these Societies had no right to the land whatever. He
 1529
 MR. AYRTON  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had not answered his questions. What he wanted to know was, whether private solicitors having been employed, the Department would have to pay its own solicitors as well, and next what was the meaning of the references to the London Bridge Approaches Fund?
 MR. AYRTON  said, the right hon. Gentleman afforded so much amusement to the House of his own accord that it was unnecessary for him to interfere with a view of keeping up the entertainment. But he must contradict the right hon. Gentleman on a matter of fact, inasmuch as the  Law List 1519
 MR. AYRTON  said, he thought the metropolis had great reason to complain of the Treasury, which had declared it would not, directly, contribute anything towards the embankment. On one point there existed considerable misapprehension in this House, and still more out of doors. It was not remembered that, in so far as this embankment touched on Crown land, it was not competent for the Committee or for the House to deal with the question, except in the way indicated by the Crown; and therefore the Committee were in the dilemma of having to take the embankment exactly as the right hon. Gentleman proposed it, or of putting a stop to it altogether. They had therefore no alternative except to take the course which had been actually pursued. On the part of the metropolitan taxpayers, he thought they had a right to complain of the hard terms which were put upon them by the Government. Certainly the inhabitants owed nothing to the Government and the Chief Commissioner for his interference with the embankment, because he was convinced, that if the Metropolitan Board had been allowed to propose it, they would have got better terms from the Treasury, and would have saved £300,000 in the execution of the work, while the public would have got all that they legitimately desired, and all that would be ultimately necessary. The Government, however, said, "The inhabitants of London shall embank the Thames, and shall pay the Crown for any supposed interest it may have in that part of the river." It was true that some of the land in front of the Crown estates was absolutely vested in the Crown; but then it was only a dirty bank, and surely, if the inhabitants paid the cost of an embankment there, and thus made the Crown land more valuable, the Crown on its part ought to contribute something. He felt sure, that if the matter had been fairly put before the noble Viscount, and he had been told that the inhabitants were about to spend £1,500,000 upon this embankment, he would have released the rights of the Crown in this foreshore, as the contribution which the Crown made in consideration of the great improvement to the Crown estate through this alteration. Instead of this, everything bad been exacted. They were now compelled to take the Bill exactly as it was tendered to them regarding the Crown estates.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  rose to protest against the assertion that the Crown had a right to embank the river in front of its own property without an Act of Parliament to empower it to do so. He was of opinion that all that had been recovered from the Thames ought to belong to the public.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, this clause was objectionable, in as much as there was no limit placed in reference to the
 1515
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  complained of the constant encroachments that had been made upon the bed of the river; and they were now about to take steps which would have the effect of further contracting its width by one-third. He doubted whether the right hon. Gentleman was aware of the extent to which the navigation would be impeded by this plan. He wished to know whether at low water the river would come to the base of the embankment?
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : Sir, when the hon. Gentleman brought to my notice some time ago the question of the permanent settlement of Land in India, I was not able to give an answer on the subject, inasmuch as it was under the consideration of the Indian Council. I am now happy to state that they have come to the conclusion to which the hon. Gentleman came long before—that it would be for the benefit of India that the system of permanent settlement of Land should be gradually introduced. I shall be happy to lay on the table the papers on the subject. With reference to the second question, I hope to be able to make the Indian financial statement on Monday next.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that no alteration had actually been made in the Laws referred to by the hon. Gentleman, though two Bills had been introduced into the Governor General's Council on the subject, one of which was under consideration.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  thought the exaggerated pretensions on behalf of one element of the Constitution were offensive to the House of Commons. Few persons could be aware of the trickery that had been practised, or would believe that, after a Committee had made a careful investigation, at the last moment the Crown, or some one in its name, should bring forward clauses and make their adoption imperative. Such a course was offensive to that House, and placed the name of the Crown in an odious light.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  complained that the lessees along the river were to be charged for the land reclaimed from the river and added to their premises, though the lessees only require the land they already possess.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  remarked that the right hon. Gentleman the First Commissioner of Works had fallen into the hands of the most expensive Parliamentary agents in London, as he knew Messrs. Rose, Baxter, and Norton had charged for lithographed circulars as if they were manuscript. He had tested these charges by litigation leading to a reference to arbitration, and the result was a curtailment of their charges. The noble Lord at the head of the Government had bribed a Member out of his seat. ["Order !"] Well, what was he to say? The noble Lord, with that tact which distinguished all he did, offered an inducement to an hon. Member which resulted in his vacating his seat, and finding an opportunity for bestowing the seat on an official of his own Government. He had intended to put a question to the noble Viscount on the point; and only let him off for one reason,
 1523
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he was glad to find the Chairman concurred with him that it was a privilege in Committee that a single Member might raise the question on a clause by calling for a division. If that was so, though no second voice was heard, tellers might subsequently appear. In his case, there were, in point of fact, tellers, and one hon. Member raised his voice with him. He did so rather feebly, no doubt, but perhaps his lungs were delicate.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  rose to a point of order, with reference to a matter which had occurred that evening. He had always understood that a proposition made in Committee required no seconder, and therefore no second voice when the question was put; and he was therefore surprised to find that a single voice was not sufficient to divide the House. If that were so, it would place hon. Members under as great a disadvantage in Committee as they laboured under in the House; and he therefore asked for an explanation.
 LORD FERMOY  entirely concurred in what had been stated by the noble Lord opposite. He could not be a party to this clause, either in the sense of passing an indirect censure upon the Metropolitan Board of Works, or for more substantial reasons. The works were to be carried on by funds supplied by the coal and wine duties. If the land reclaimed from the river were saddled by too many conditions, its value would be proportionately reduced, because persons proposing to become lessees would take this into account, and offer a smaller sum. He congratulated the noble Lord opposite on his able and fair vindication of the character of the Metropolitan Board of Works as a representative body, and he hoped that the First Commissioner of Works would get up in his place and inform the Committee that in his opinion the matter might be safely left in the hands of the body which had so far successfully carried out the stupendous works connected with the drainage of the metropolis, and with so little unpopularity among those who had to defray the expense.
 MR. H. A. HERBERT  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, When it is the intention of the Government to proceed with the works on the Steam Packet Pier at Holyhead, for which money has been voted by Parliament this Session?
 MR. KER SEYMER  begged permission to clear the First Commissioner from all participation in the introduction of this clause. When the Bill was referred to the Select Committee, he (Mr. Ker Seymer) went carefully over it, and arrived at the conclusion that some such clause was necessary. He therefore proposed it for the adoption of the Committee; and though he was sorry to be opposed by one who
 1507
 MR. BUTT  said, he rose to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, When the Returns relative to the Chaplaincy of the Youghal Union, ordered by this House on the 6th day of June, renewing a similar order of last Session, will be laid upon the table of the House?
 MR. WYLD  said, they were going to put the Gas Company in a better position than they were before, and the Gas Company should pay for it.
 MR. WYLD  thought the clause objectionable, because it would perpetuate a gross nuisance in the centre of the City of London. It would sanction the continuance of the gas works near Blackfriars Bridge. If the proposed viaduct was to be constructed, it would be a great convenience to the gas company, and they ought to pay for the improvement.
 MR. HENNESSY  stated his determination to oppose the measure throughout.
 MR. LOCKE  thought that the hon. Member's clause was a matter of very small dimensions. The public were not to be admitted to these bits of land except under such restrictions as the Inner and Middle Temple should impose, subject to the consent of the Crown; but it was not likely that the Crown would interfere at all in the business. The hon. Gentleman was told by the gardener of the Inner Temple that he could not admit persons without orders. It should be borne in mind, however, that these orders were given by the Benchers to all persons who chose to ask for them, and on summer evenings the whole public were let into the garden without any orders whatever. The Temples maintained the gardens at their own expense, and he had never before heard any complaint made as to restrictions on the entrance of the public.
 MR. LOCKE  said, that the omission of this clause followed, as a matter of course, the omission of Clause 9, and he therefore proposed that it should be omitted.
 MR. LOCKE  said, some years back the House of Commons had an opportunity of getting rid of those Works, but they came to the determination that the Company should be allowed to carry them on where they were. If the House paid for the removal of the Works out of the Consolidated Fund, it would be a very good thing to have them removed.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether he has any objection to produce a Copy of the Resignation of Nicholas C. Whyte,
 1503 London Gazette
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman would have any objection to produce the Correspondence relating to the removal of Mr. Whyte?
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he wanted the right hon. Gentleman to explain what he meant by "all parties," for most assuredly the working men had not given their assent to the Bill.
 MR. SMOLLETT  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether any Resolution has recently been taken to introduce a permanent settlement of Land in India; and, if so, whether he will be prepared to lay upon the table of the House Copy of the Instructions forwarded to the Governor General for that purpose; and, if he is prepared to fix a day for introducing his annual Statement on Indian Finance?
 MR. COBDEN : If the noble Lord who has just spoken, and the noble Viscount at the head of the Government, had held the doctrine in times past that it was unadvisable to introduce into the debates of this House references to the strength of the French navy, I should have agreed with them. But we hear that argument now for the first time. When we have before us official and authentic facts by which we can prove that the statements which have been made by the Government in times past with regard to the strength of the French navy have been entirely fallacious and delusive, and when we seek to remove
 1547 1548 1549 attaché maximum The Memoirs of the First Lord Auckland 1550 maximum maximum attaché maximum attaché 1551 attaché 1552 "I rise to contradict the hon. Gentleman's (Mr. Bright's) own erroneous assertions, as well as those of the hon. Members for Montrose and Sunderland. Those hon. Gentlemen came here propounding opinions based on extracts from some newspaper or other. I really think it was
 1553 Hansard "When some well-intentioned gentleman asks the French if they really mean to invade this country, if they really have any hostile intentions towards us, of course they say, 'Not the least in the world,' their feeling is one of perfect sympathy and friendship with us, and that all their preparations are only for their own self-advancement."—[3  Hansard Moniteur 1554 "On the 1st of January, 1862, the French army consisted "—[these are the corrected figures which the noble Lord afterwards gave]—"of 446,348 men under arms. There was, besides, a reserve of 170,000 men, liable to be called out at a fortnight or three weeks' notice, making altogether 616,318"—
 MR. COBDEN : I beg the noble Lord's pardon, because this was not a mistake of a figure. There was addition and subtraction, and the statement was the same all through. The noble Lord proceeded—
 "In addition to this force actually under arms, or liable to be called out for service, I stated that there were 268,117 National Guards, making a total available force of 884,765." "France, as I had occasion to state on a former occasion, has now a standing army of 340,000 men, fully equipped, including a large force of cavalry and artillery, and, in addition to that, 1,000,000 of the National Guard. I know that the National Guard of Paris amounts to 80,000 men, trained, disciplined, reviewed, clothed, equipped, and accustomed to duty and perfectly competent, therefore, to take the internal duty of the country, and to set free the whole of the regular force." [3 Hansard 1555 "Speaking as the noble Lord did from his place as Prime Minister, if 100 persons had been sent by hon. Members to look round them, open and shut their eyes when they liked, perhaps having no eyes to see with at all, he did not think that the reports of such people ought to be allowed by the country to weigh for one moment against the positive declaration of the Prime Minister from his seat in Parliament, that he knew the facts he stated to be facts." [3  Hansard 1556 1557 1558
 MR. CRAWFORD  had listened with regret to the right lion. Gentleman's attempt to reintroduce personalities which by this time he had hoped might have been buried and forgotten, and which were unworthy of the right hon. Gentleman's position. He (Mr. Crawford) had voted against the hon. Member (Mr. Ker Seymer) in Committee, and he had since heard nothing to induce him to alter his opinion; on the contrary, he had heard a great deal in the speech of the First Commissioner of Works to induce him to vote for the Amendment of the noble Lord (Lord John Manners). The clause proposed that no ground plan or elevation of the buildings to be erected should be adopted which had not for one month previous been submitted for the approval of the First Commissioner of Works. The clause did not say what was to be done if the First Commissioner disapproved of the plan; and he believed, that even if no disapproval were communicated to the parties proposing to construct these buildings, they would incur a certain amount of risk if they proceeded to build after the month had expired. The clause, too, he apprehended, would have a continuous operation; so that, for all time to come, whether these buildings remained as frontages or not, no person owning land on the ground so reclaimed would have the power to build without the approval of the First Commissioner of Works. It was even proposed in Committee to give the First Commissioner the same power in regard to the new street in the City of London; so that no one would have been able to build a new shop or warehouse in the new street without coming to the First Commissioner for his consent. Fortunately, that proviso had been abandoned in the Committee. They were told that this was a national ques-
 1512
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he had been informed that the measure had received the assent of all parties concerned.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that although he had been asked to take charge of this Bill, it was not to be regarded as a Government measure. He had been given to understand that the Bill had received the assent of all parties, and as it had already passed through the other House, he had undertaken to see that it should be duly considered. He had no objection to postpone the Motion for the second reading until Thursday next.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the list of articles enumerated in the monthly Returns was revised every year, and, should the quantity of foreign paper imported continue to be as large as at present, it would be specified in the Returns. For the last few months the importation of foreign paper had been very fluctuating, being in one month only 2,000 cwt., and in another 38,000 cwt. It was difficult at present to decide whether it was of sufficient importance to take its place among the principal articles imported. But if the importation continued at its present rate,
 1496
 MR. SCULLY  said, that as he saw the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland in his place, he wished to ask him a question in reference to the Irish business before Parliament, and more especially with respect to the Bills which appeared on the paper for that evening. With a view to put himself in order, he would conclude by moving the adjourn-
 1497 bonâ fide 1498 Cries of and 1499 1500 1501
 MR. SCULLY  moved, as an Amendment, that the Bill be committed this day three months. He thought that it was too late an hour (a quarter past one o'clock) to commence a discussion on the measure. The present mode, according to which the county surveyors in Ireland were appointed, was better than the plan proposed by this Bill, which would establish a system of centralization, in as much as the qualifications of candidates were to be examined into by the Civil Service Commissioners in England instead of by the Board now appointed by the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland. His opinion was that even with the Amendments of which notice had been given, the Bill could not be made a presentable measure; and he concluded by moving that the House should go into Committee upon it that day three months.
 MR. SCULLY  moved that the Chairman should report progress.
 MR. TITE  said, the Metropolitan Board had not regarded the clause as one implying any reflection on them, but simply as a matter of business. They thought the arrangement which it would sanction a very undesirable one, but they were advised not to oppose it. His own opinion was, that the less interference with the free action of individual speculators, the better for obtaining the full value of the land; but, speaking from an architectural point of view, he thought the double responsibility the best. The Corporation of London, after clearing the approaches to London Bridge, put themselves into the hands of Sir Robert Smirke; but the consequence was, that in the buildings which were subsequently erected there was too great sameness. They afterwards change their plan, allowing each person to whom the land was parcelled out to choose his own architect, but reserving to themselves a veto, and the result was that fine specimen of street architecture that was to be seen in Cannon Street. In the new street in the Borough the Metropolitan Board of Works were following precisely the same plan. Here, however, was to be a double control, which experience should have taught them to regard with jealousy. However, he should leave the question in the hands of the Committee.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, The cause of the delay in presenting the Report of the Commissioners on the Embankment of the Surrey side of the Thames?
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  drew attention to the question of the cost of the lower main sewer. He had not observed any provision in this Bill that the cost was to be defrayed out of the £3,000,000 to be borrowed for the purpose of making the sewers generally; and he thought that if it formed part of the works of the new embankment, it would be most unjust if it were to be paid out of the tax upon coal and wine.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that Mr. Tremenheere's Report had been received by the Government on Friday last, and would be in the printers' hands immediately. The Government proposed to extend the inquiry to other places if it should be necessary; but the facts were so similar that it was probable that those interested in the matter, upon receiving the Report, would not think further inquiry necessary.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : The hon. Member for Rochdale and others have referred so directly to me on the subject of exaggerated statements alleged to have been made in this House with regard to the navy of France, that, in justice to Admiral Elliot, I wish to say a few words. The speech of the hon. Member fur Rochdale has been mainly directed against the noble Viscount, whom be has charged with vague and exaggerated statements as to the navies of France and England. I leave the noble Lord to answer that charge, but I must say that I believe he has made no speech upon the subject which was not only not open to the charge of vagueness or exaggeration, but was not strictly founded upon most accurate  data 1559 1560 Solferino Magenta Solferino Magenta
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he was glad they had, at last, come to the important question of expense, which had hitherto been overlooked in these discussions. At present they knew no more as to what would be the expense of the proposed embankment than what they were told by the Committee, which was, that after several items of expense had been cut off, it would cost £500,000. Now, according to the evidence of the City Chamberlain, it was clear, that if they had taken the estimates offered in introducing this Bill, they would have found them-
 1520
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, Messrs. Marchant and Pead, who appeared before the Committee as agents for the Bill, according to the  Law List
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that this clause had reference to the street between Whitehall Place and Wellington Street. He wished it to be understood that there was a strong feeling in the Committee that the street was a downright mistake, and that its creation would give rise to endless claims for compensation. The evidence before them was, that the street ran in a wrong direction, and he hoped the matter would be discussed in another place.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  thought it was very dangerous to allow locomotives to move along in crowded streets, and advocated the maintenance of the clause.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, this clause and Clause 77 would enable the Crown to lease the land reclaimed from the foreshores, and charge its tenants what it thought fit. The foreshores were at present useless, but the metropolitan ratepayers were going to render them of great value; and inasmuch as all persons, from the highest in rank to the lowest wharfinger, had been called upon to make sacrifices in order to carry out this great improvement, he thought the Crown, instead of taking the utilized land for its own advantage, should join in making a sacrifice for the common good. He had expressed this opinion several times, and had divided the Committee, although always in a
 1524
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he had always considered that there had been sharp practice in this mattter—that after all discussion had closed, at the last moment, they should be told that the Crown had a veto. He regretted that the Crown. should have been mixed up in this matter in this manner; but it was a fact, that the only individual in the metropolis who would make no sacrifice for this great metropolitan improvement was what was commonly called the Crown, but really it amounted to nothing more than the efforts of one or two offices who were anxious to support their dignity and importance. He had divided the Select Committee twice unsuccessfully against these clauses, and the only reason why he refrained from dividing the Committee on the present occasion was, because he understood that a kind of understanding existed upstairs, that unless these clauses were passed, the consent of the Crown would be withheld from the Bill. [Mr. COWPER: Yes.] He should be sorry to imperil a useful measure by such a course; for he believed that a great work was about to be made, but badly made. He had always felt that it was a great object to make the Thames Embankment, in order to construct the low-level sewer without injury and ruin to many persons in the Strand and Fleet Street; and therefore, although he thought the scheme badly devised and badly engineered, he would not undertake the responsibility of preventing its completion.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY : Sir, I trust the Committee will permit me to make a few observations on a personal matter. When the proceedings in Committee of the House had once commenced, I thought it right to refrain from intruding myself on the attention of the Committee, because I desired that certain irritable feelings which had been excited in the previous discussions should be allowed to cool down. But there are some things which a man cannot allow to be said, without endeavouring to set himself right with his friends and society. It is a common saying, that an Englishman's word is as good as his bond. The Committee will recollect, that upon being called upon on a
 1532 1533
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, this was almost the only point upon which he had ventured to differ from his hon. Friend (Mr. K. Seymer) in the Committee. With regard to the absence of any opposition to the clause in the Committee by the counsel for the Metropolitan Board of Works, it arose from the feeling, that as the First Commissioner of Works was Chairman of the Committee, it was rather a delicate thing to oppose his having the veto given him by the clause. For his own part, he regretted that the clause was not opposed by the counsel for the Board, because, had it been, he believed the clause would never have received their sanction. He thanked the noble Lord opposite (Lord J. Manners) for the manner in which he had brought the question forward. It came much better from his noble Friend than from any metropolitan Mem-
 1508
 SIR JOSEPH PAXTON  replied, that though the water would come up to the embankment, the landing-stages would have to be carried out some distance before vessels could come alongside at low water.
 SIR JOSEPH PAXTON  thought it absurd to make an exception as regarded this embankment. If they had a general law for the metropolis prohibiting steam locomotives to use the common roads, well and good.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he was already obliged to his hon. and learned Friend for his great courtesy towards him, and for the unequivocal terms in which he was good enough to refer to him in connection with his official duties during the present Session of Parliament. He (Sir Robert Peel), however, did not think that the House generally, or the other hon. Members from Ireland, would coincide in the opinion of the hon. and learned Gentleman, that he had manifested any intention of proceeding unfairly with the Irish business he had introduced. If the hon. and learned Gentleman had been kept to a late hour at night waiting for those measures to be brought on, he did not suffer that inconvenience alone. He (Sir Robert Peel) was also a sufferer in that respect, having been also compelled, night after
 1502
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that seeing such a determination evinced on the part of some of the Members from Ireland to offer every opposition to the measure, he should move that the Chairman should report progress and ask leave to sit again.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, the Return was a very voluminous one; but the Poor Law Commission stated that it was in course of preparation, and would be ready to be laid on the table in about a fortnight.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, that the feelings of the Committee bad been accurately described by the noble Lord (Lord Harry Vane), but they were told by the Chairman that any alteration of the clauses would be fatal to the Bill. He agreed that the Crown should not be placed in this invidious position. Mr. Gore, doubtless, was desirous of protecting the interests of the Crown in the department over which he presided, but there were interests which could not be estimated by any money value.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  (who had given notice on going into Committee to move—
 "That it be an Instruction to the Committee, to set forth in detail in the Schedule to the Bill, under the head of each station, the name of the works in each district to which it is proposed to apply the sums to be granted by the Bill; the total estimated cost of each work, and the amount proposed to be applied to it before August 1, 1863,") 1536 1537 pro formâ
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  objected to the clause as unnecessary and inexpedient. Why should they prohibit the use of the greatest improvement of the age— steam—on this new roadway? Why they should be specially excepted he could not understand, and it seemed to him retrograde legislation. He begged therefore to move that the clause be expunged.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  thought this was a most unconstitutional clause, for it gave a power to a Government Department which had never been delegated by the House on any previous occasion. He could not give his assent to the views which had been expressed by the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Commissioner of Works on what the right hon. Gentleman called the architectural beauties of the plan. Questions would be constantly asked in the House about the shape of every chimney that might be built if the First Commissioner were
 1513
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : This question does not appear to me very important, nor one in which the Government takes a great interest. If there is any one interested in its decision, it is my right hon. Friend the First Commissioner of the Board of Works, who I think, would naturally incline to repudiate the responsibility which the clause would throw upon him. It is, however, a question of public interest that there should be some controlling authority, in order to secure uniformity of design in a block of buildings to be placed in so conspicuous a position as the new embankment would be. We have seen the advantage of this in the Regent's Park. Many people may not approve the different styles of architecture to be seen there; that is a matter of taste. Some of it is Gothic, some Grecian, and some neither Gothic nor Grecian; but still those blocks of building are to some extent uniform, and produce a good effect. It was really an original thought of Mr. Nash, and very creditable to him, to combine a number of separate private dwellings into
 1514
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : No, I never said anything of the kind.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I should like to ask the House whether we are discussing the Naval Estimates of the year, or whether we are discussing plans for the permanent fortifications of the dockyards? The two speeches of the hon. Member for Sunderland and the hon. Member for Rochdale had no bearing on the question now under discussion, but turned upon a simple comparison between the existing navy of France and the existing navy of England. Now, the hon. Member for Rochdale seems to be excessively angry with me. He accuses me of indiscretion, of levity, and of every possible breach of every possible duty that is incumbent upon a Prime Minister. I receive these accusations from him with the utmost possible quietness. I differ so entirely from the hon. Member that it is quite natural I should feel proud of being the object of the hon. Member's attacks. He said that I am actuated by an idea. Sir, I am actuated by an idea. My idea seems never to have entered the fertile brain of the hon. Member. My
 1561 crepidam 1562 Moniteur Moniteur Moniteur 1563 s d s d 1564 "Oremus pacem, et dextras tendamus inermes," 1565
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, his right hon. Friend had no intention of withdrawing the Bill.
