 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said in reply, that in 1862 a large gun was constructed at Woolwich for the purpose of trying Mr. Lynal Thomas's system of rifling, on the distinct understanding that it was to be at that gentleman's own expense. A very large outlay had been incurred, which had not yet been paid by Mr. Thomas. The gun had been fired against iron plates, and Mr. Thomas had repeatedly requested that further trials should be made. The Ordnance Select Committee had, however, recommended that no more trials should take place against iron plates until the general merits of the gun had been more accurately determined. All experiments had since been suspended by order of Earl de Grey until an arrangement could be come to with the view of deciding whose property the gun really was at the present moment. During last year, Mr. Lynal Thomas was declared bankrupt. He had been allowed a certain time to pay for the gun manufactured for him at the Royal factory, and if he did not pay within that period, steps would be taken to determine who should have possession of the gun. It would, under present circumstances, be extremely inconvenient to publish the Report of trials which had not been concluded.
 MR. PEEL  said, the Vote on account
 18
 MR. H. R. GRENPELL  rose to second the Motion. He should have preferred rising at a somewhat later stage of the debate if his hon. Friend had not communicated to him his intention to call the attention of the House to some points in the late court-martial, and also to make some personal explanations with regard to his own conduct in the matter. That, he thought, left it open for an independent
 26 27 28 ex post facto 29 30 animus animus
 GENERAL PEEL : I have always deprecated any interference by this House with the military command and discipline of the army, and I have always been opposed to the inquiries constantly made by hon. Members on both sides of the House—including, I am sorry to say, military men — why such an officer has got a regiment, and why such an officer has been passed over, as questions which the House of Commons has nothing to do with. I draw a distinction between questions relating to discipline and promotion, and everything relating to the civil administration and Government of the army. This is no distinction of my own; it will be found introduced into the patent of the First Secretary of State for War. Everything is there handed over to him with the express exception of military command— the discipline of the army and promotions and appointments. That exception was deeply and seriously considered by the
 37 "The Secretary of State does not interfere in any way with the ordinary routine administration of the discipline of the army. That is left to the military authorities, aided by the legal knowledge of a Parliamentary officer—namely, the Judge Advocate. The army is thus enabled to feel assured that the patronage of the army as regards the first commissions and the ordinary promotions and appointments, other than those which are self regulated by purchase or seniority, will not be distributed with a view to political objects, or to the necessities of successive governments. Nor will the discipline of the army, as daily administered, vary in its character with each change in the civil department. Your Committee think that the introduction of any system which shall shake this reliance on the part of the army would be prejudicial to the efficiency of the service, by introducing doubt and dissatisfaction where confidence should exist." "In his opinion, some regulation is necessary, as pointing out to the Secretary of State the necessity of not invading the province of the officer who has the military command of the army intrusted to him." 38 39 40 41 42 "His generous tongue disdained to speak The thing his heart disproved." 43
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he rose to state the course which the Government intended to take. The Government gave a most cordial assent to the Amendment just moved by the right hon. Gentleman, agreeing in the necessity of not producing more papers, and of avoiding further discussion. He should have occasion by-and-by to state why he disagreed with the right hon. Gentleman in thinking that the papers already produced had done harm to the discipline of the army; but surely no one could now say that this question had not been fully and amply discussed, and he thought a large majority in the House would agree with the right hon. Gentleman that the time had at last come when this controversy should be brought to an end. He was happy to find that the hon. Member who brought this subject forward (Mr. D. Fortescue) had responded to the appeal which he had made to him, and did not invite the House to go through all the proceedings of the trial. Considering the very strong opinion held by the hon. Gentleman upon this subject, he had acted in a very fair and manly way in declaring that he would not call in question the justice of the finding of the court-martial. But he had alluded to that which one would have thought had long ago been discussed and decided—the speech of the hon. Gentleman being a repetition of that which he had made last Session, calling in question the original legality of the arrest of the sergeants, and the further illegality of the continued arrest of Sergeant Major Lilley. In reply to the hon. Gentleman last year, he (the Marquess of Harrington) admitted, and still admitted, that in the opinion of the Law Advisers of the Crown, and of the military authorities at the Horse Guards, Sir William Mansfield's decision in continuing the arrest of the three sergeant-majors, while allowing that no sufficient ground existed upon which they could be brought to trial, was not to be justified, and that Sir William Mansfield committed an error in judgment when he sanctioned this continued arrest. The hon. Gentleman had concluded by saying that he did not wish to see Sir
 45 46 47 48 49 50
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTONI  said, he was not engaged in defending the language of the Memorandum, he was merely stating that his Royal Highness had never modified the opinions originally expressed in the first Memorandum of the 16th September. The military authorities also received from India explanations as to the nature of the bungalow, and statements made in a casual and summary manner about the severity of the arrest. He maintained that the Government had not at that time in their possession sufficient materials for confuting the statements made in the press and by the hon. Member for Andover. Then the Government had been attacked because they ordered the court-martial to be held in this country. The reason for doing so was that the proceedings at the Mhow trial had very much agitated the minds of all the military authorities in India, and especially in the Bombay Presidency, and that the Commander-in-Chief in that presidency and Sir Hugh Rose were both, to a certain extent, mixed up, in public opinion, with the transactions which had taken place in connection with that court-martial. It seemed to the Government, when charges of the very gravest nature had been brought against Colonel Crawley, that it would be much better for that officer and for all concerned, and much more satisfactory to the public, that the trial should take place in some place where the superior military authorities were not involved in the case to the extent of those in India. It certainly never entered into the mind of his Royal Highness the Commander-in-Chief, or to his noble Friend the Secretary of State for War, that Colonel Crawley would not have had a fair trial in India; but only that it would be more satisfactory to the Colonel himself, and to the public in England, that it should take place here. The very first incident of the Aldershot Court Martial showed what would have been the inconvenience of holding the trial at Mhow. In drawing up the charges, the legality or
 52 53 54 55
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he was quite unaware what observations of his were referred to by the noble Lord. He had stated that it was not wonderful if in one particular instance, and
 57
 MR. HEADLAM  said, that before entering upon the subject to which the attention of the House had been called that night—namely, the Crawley Court
 67 68 69
 GENERAL PEEL  explained that what he said was, that if the Secretary of State had come to Parliament, and declared upon his responsibility that he would have an inquiry, in which justice should be done to all parties, that House would have been satisfied.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, that was exactly what was done; but the noble Lord the Secretary of State, having promised an inquiry, was bound to have it in such a form as he considered best calculated to elucidate the whole case and satisfy the public. He put it to the House what would have been the consequence if the Government had refused to hold the court-martial in this country. If the court-
 70 71 72 73 74 75
 COLONEL GILPIN  said, his object in rising upon that occasion was to make an appeal to the Under Secretary for War and the Government generally, in favour of an officer who had been worse treated than any officer of the British service similarly situated. He knew nothing of Colonel Crawley. He had never seen him to his knowledge, nor had had any communication
 88 89
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, he had heard with astonishment the speech just delivered; but he should not have risen but for the taunts thrown out on the other side of the House against those who were designated the military defenders of the abuses of the Horse Guards. He stood there as the representative of an important constituency, and he felt that he was not acting inconsistently with his duty in taking the part of a maligned and ill-used officer. The right hon. Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie) was the only man who had as yet stood up in a fair and honourable manner, avoiding all the technicalities of the law, and spoken in favour of the much injured and persecuted Colonel Crawley. The hon. Member for Andover (Mr. Dudley Fortescue), not satisfied with being one of the originators of this great
 93 94
 LORD NAAS  protested against the introduction of a measure of such importance without some statement of the provisions. Two years ago a Committee sat to consider the Irish Poor Law, and decided that it was not desirable to change its leading provisions. Many alterations of a minor kind were recommended, and were carried out. He thought after that declaration by the Committee, and after the general expression of opinion the other night in favour of the principles of the Irish Poor Law, it was only wasting the time of the House now to introduce a Bill which had not the slightest chance of being passed.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, he wished to protest against the attacks upon his hon. Friend the Member for Andover (Mr. D. Fortescue), by the hon. and gallant Member for Ayr (Sir James Fergusson), and the hon. Member for Dumbarton (Mr. Smollett). The language used towards his hon. Friend was perfectly unjustifiable. If facts were brought to the knowlege of any hon. Member which, to the best of his judgment, gave  primâ facie 87 "There are points of Lieutenant Colonel Crawley's conduct of which his Royal Highness cannot speak in too strong terms; he alludes to the confinement under arrest of certain non-commissioned officers during the trial, on a charge of conspiracy, which he never attempted to prove against them, and for which there does not appear to be the shadow of a foundation. He has also reason to believe that the Commander-in-Chief in India, if he had been better acquainted with the circumstances, would have taken a different view, and would not have attributed the death of that non-commissioned officer to excess."
 MR. DUTTON  said, he desired to express his satisfaction at the handsome manner in which Sir William Mansfield had been spoken of, and thought the explanation of the noble Lord the under Secretary, with reference to his previous remarks; on that distinguished officer, perfectly satisfactory. With reference to the allegation that Captain Smales had been deprived of a proper opportunity of getting up his evidence by the arrest of the sergeants, he was of opinion that it was disproved by the dates. Now, what were the dates of these transactions? The court-martial commenced on the 1st of April, 1862. Captain Smales commenced his defence on the 21st of April, and the men were not arrested until the 26th; so that if he did not get up materials for his defence he had ample time to see his witnesses, and, therefore, it was quite clear that he could not have been prejudiced by the men having been placed under arrest. With reference to the duration of the men's imprisonment, it was impossible to manage such matters in India in the same manner as they were managed in this country; and
 86
 LORD HOTHAM  said, he wished to say a few words, as he had been so pointedly alluded to by the noble Lord. The noble Lord would have done better if, to quote a homely proverb, he had looked at home and addressed himself rather to the hon. Member for Andover than to him. He could assure the noble Lord and the House that if the hon. Member for Andover had not moved for two confidential Reports, no notice of a Motion would have been given by him for papers of that kind; but when he saw the notice given by the hon. Member for Andover, he imagined that the hon. Member expected to find in those Reports some information favourable to the cause he supported, he thought it was better, instead of objecting to the production of two confidential Reports, to move for all such Reports as had been made, so that they might have all the information that could be afforded to them. That was the sole reason for his having given the notice which the noble Lord had pleased to censure. He never for a moment believed that a Government could have been found weak enough to produce confidential Reports; but, at the same time, he was not disposed to leave them at liberty to present such a case as might have suited the hon. Member for Andover, and to keep back information possibly throwing light on the other side. He concurred in the general principle which had been laid down by his right hon. Friend the Member for Huntingdon (General Peel); but it had been admitted that this was entirely an exceptional case, and exceptional diseases always required exceptional remedies. He admitted fully the value of the right hon. Gentleman's principle, but when such things were done as had been done in this case, there was more to fear from mystery and secresy than from letting the whole truth be known to the country. He should
 56
 LORD LOVAINE  said, he did not understand Ms Royal Highness to go quite
 51 "Having ascertained the quantity of brandy ! consumed in the house of the non-commissioned officer, that shows the probability of his symptoms having been aggravated by drinking; at the same time his Royal Highness must remark, that the allegation of habitual drunkenness rests on very doubtful evidence, while the evidence was undoubted of previous good conduct and sobriety."
 LORD LOVAINE , who had given notice of an Amendment, to move an Address for Copy of Correspondence and Legal Opinions forwarded by Sir William Mansfield from India to the Secretary of State for War and the Commander-in-Chief, relating to the legality of the Mhow Court Martial, said, Sir, I have had the advantage of having served some few years in Her Majesty's army; I feel, therefore, that I am not altogether disqualified from entering into this Question, and giving an opinion upon the case. I am perfectly well aware that it is some time since I retired from the service, and that my experience does not quite justify me in trespassing very long upon the attention of the House. There is, however, some advantage in knowing something of military discipline when we come to discuss a question of this sort. Now, as regards the case of the hon. Member who brought forward this Motion, and the statements of the hon. Gentleman who seconded it, I have two or three observations to make. In the first place, the hon. Member who commenced the discussion said, that he did not intend to go into the evidence or impugn in any way the result of the court-martial at Aldershot; nevertheless it appeared to me that the hon. Gentleman did comment upon the evidence, and tried to make out that the manner in which the place where Sergeant Major Lilley was confined had been wrongly described. To that I give a complete contradiction. If there were any truth in the statement of the witnesses it was evident that the bungalow in which Sergeant Major Lilley was confined had one small room, one large room, and two verandahs communicating with one another. The hon. Gentleman said he was partially mistaken in what he had said regarding the position of the sentry over his prisoner. I think the hon. Gentleman might have gone further, and said that he was grossly mistaken in the matter. It was clearly proved that the sentry had never obtruded himself upon Mrs. Lilley, and that he never saw her. The witness was asked whether he saw the bed in which the Sergeant Major and Mrs. Lilley slept and his answer was that he could not see it, as there was a screen between him and
 32
 LORD LOVAINE : If the meaning of the Articles of War be that the prisoner should not be confined eight days without the charge being laid before the Commander-in-Chief, the confinement in this case was legal. The moment the Com-
 33 animus 34 35 ex parte 36
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, the Secretary of the Treasury had given notice that he would ask for Votes on account of the Civil Service Estimates on Thursday. Only No. 6 and No. 2 had yet been presented. He trusted the right hon. Gentle- man would give an undertaking that the course pursued the last year should not be taken again—namely, the voting of sums on account in the early part of the evening and the balance at a later period.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether a sum of money is ever issued by direction of the Lords of the Treasury as "Expenditure without Account;" and, if so, in what manner the same is brought under the consideration of the Commissioners for the Audit of Public Accounts; and whether the Expenditure is passed by them after due examination of the vouchers for the subordinate items of expenditure included in that sum. What he wanted to know was whether, if £10,000 were given to a person "without account," the Auditing Officer would have to put up simply with the receipt for that sum, or
 14
 MR. O'REILLY  said, that he had no desire to question the finding of the tribunals which had tried Paymaster Smales and Colonel Crawley, and he should as little ask the House to canvass the verdict of a jury in Westminster Hall. He also quite agreed with the right hon. Gentleman (General Peel), that the discipline of the army and the conduct of the military authorities in particular cases should not be canvassed in that House. There was, however, one thing most essential in order to maintain the discipline of the army, and that was that the certainty — the known certainty—that the rules of the law and of universal justice would be observed equally by the highest and lowest authorities in the army. When these rules appeared to be infringed, it was the duty of that House to see that the law of the land and the majesty of justice were sufficiently vindicated. He had submitted two questions to the Under Secretary of State for War which the noble Marquess told him he could not answer within the ordinary limits, and he had, therefore, reserved them for the present occasion. One of those questions the noble Marquess had virtually answered in the speech he had just made. It was, whether the 18th Article of War was still and had been in force during the last two years. This Article was as follows:
 "No officer or soldier who shall be put in arrest or confinement shall continue in such arrest or
 58 "You are to keep the Regimental Sergeant Major Lilley and Troop Sergeants Major Wake-field and Duval in close arrest, under sentries, to forbid any one to have access to them, except under your own express permission." "The sergeants-major are not to be released from arrest until the proceedings in the trial of Captain Smales are entirely closed." 59
 MR. NEATE  said, that the Deputy Judge Advocate did not deserve any of the censure that had been cast upon him for his conduct in this matter. His right hon. and learned Friend the Judge Advocate General had already explained that when the Deputy Judge Advocate had the duty cast on him of assisting the prosecution, he threw aside all the duties and responsibilities of his official position, and acted merely as any other legal gentleman who appeared would have done. He had known the Deputy Judge Advocate for thirty years, and there was no man more scrupulously exact in his observance of the rights of others, or more prompt to resent or repel any wrong done to himself or those
 90
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  replied, that his attention had been drawn to the applications for relief by the casual poor, but not to a great increase in their number, for that had not occurred. With respect to the southern districts, to which the hon. Member especially referred, they were usually classed as south-western and southeastern, each division containing five counties, and being the subject of a separate Report. In the south-eastern division the number of vagrants relieved on the 1st July, 1863, was 286, and on the 1st of January, 1864, 214; and in the southwestern 128 on the 1st of July, and 136 on the 1st of January. There was, therefore, a diminution in the first case, and in the other an increase of only eight. He did not propose to issue any instructions; but he had, during the winter, called the attention of the guardians in the metropolis to the subject, and had directed the Inspectors to do the same throughout the country. He had been induced to do so very much in. consequence of the very satisfactory statement on the matter in Major General Cartwright's Report. The gallant officer said—
 "Relief to vagrants has each year been reported upon, and, deeply impressed with the great advantage of placing this duty in the hands of the police, I venture again to bring it before the public. The appointment of trustworthy police officers to administer the tickets to the applicants for vagrant relief has been largely extended during the year, and as it becomes more universal it proves itself to be more beneficial … As far as practice informs me, nothing can be acting better than this system, both to the destitute wayfarer or the public; the former when in distress and want of relief immediately obtains it, the latter are protected by proper examination from the imposition of the professional mendicant." 16
 MR. DUDLEY FORTESCUE  protested against misquotations of his speech. He should be perfectly satisfied if the hon. Member quoted either from  Hansard The Times
 MR. DUDLEY FORTESCUE  asked, where the hon. Gentleman had procured these statements?
 MR. DUDLEY FORTESCUE  rose to protest against the hon. and gallant Gentleman's language. He did not think it was at all parliamentary that an hon. Member who had been in error on some points, and who had acknowledged that he had been so, should have such epithets as "gross slanders" and "unscrupulous falsehoods" coupled with the mention of his name, because in the discharge of his duty he had called the House's attention to a very grave public scandal, and which, as he would at a later period point out, had a great deal more foundation than the hon. and gallant Gentleman appeared to suppose.
 MR. DUDLEY FORTESCUE : When I said six weeks I meant that six weeks was the duration of the whole of the imprisonment, and that it was illegal because these men had never been brought to trial at all.
 MR. DUDLEY FORTESCUE  rose to call attention to the court-martial on Colonel Crawley; and to move an Address for copies. The hon. Member said, he had a painful sense of the disadvantages under I which he laboured in doing so, for he was fully aware of the reaction of feeling which, at all events, in the higher classes of society had taken place on the subject; and if he were at liberty to consult his own inclination, he should gladly have abstained I from reverting to it. But after the distinct pledge which he gave last year, and after the strong appeal which had been made to him by Colonel Crawley himself, in his defence at Aldershot, when he said that some public explanation was due alike to the honour of Mr. Fortescue and to the dignity of Parliament, he felt it was impossible to remain altogether silent. Perhaps he had the stronger claim to the indulgence of the House from the opportunity, which he sought some time ago, having been denied him of explaining and vindicating in the leading organ of the press his original statement, an opportunity which, if it had been afforded to him, would in all probability have saved both himself and the House from the infliction of the present address. At the outset, however, he wished to disclaim any intention of calling in question the verdict of the late court-martial. That verdict he believed to have been honestly arrived at. There was a conflict of evidence, on which, in accordance with the just and well recognized principles of our law, the construction most favourable to the accused might fairly be put; and whatever, after a closer study of that evidence than probably any other Member had thought it worth his while to bestow upon it, his own individual opinion might be, he was not in I any way called upon to pronounce that opinion there, nor should he presume to I obtrude it upon the House, In any remarks, therefore, he might make on the ! present occasion, he wished once more distinctly to disclaim any intention to reflect upon Colonel Crawley, or to impugn
 19 20 21 and cheers and cheers 22 "It was a question of mutiny or no mutiny." "A crisis had arrived; the danger was imminent; one step more and the flame might have kindled in the ranks, and the famous regiment of the Inniskilling Dragoons would hare broken out into open mutiny," "Close arrest may be a severe measure, but it is better than blowing your soldiers from the guns." 23 24 habeas corpus 25
 MR. DUDLEY FORTESCUE  wished, before the debate closed, to give some answer to the remarks which had been addressed to him, especially to the appeal of the hon. Member for Ayrshire (Sir James Fergusson) — an appeal which, if not at variance with strict Parliamentary usage, was certainly not in accordance with that courteous and gentlemanlike spirit which was one of the most honourable characteristics of the House of Commons, and which he thought the hon. Member might study with great advantage in the improve-
 97 "If I ever did speak about it to other people I should have done so, not during the whole course of the arrest, but during the latter part of the arrest, as from the recollection of my own sergeant major's quarters I believe them to have been shut up in one room." "With reference to the evidence you gave yesterday in cross-examination (extract read), were any additional quarters given to Quarter Master Sergeant Dibble besides those occupied by Sergeant Major Lilley? Answer: I am glad to have the opportunity of stating that I forgot to mention yesterday that Quarter Master Sergeant Dibble inhabited the quarters Lilley died; in, and also a room on the north side of the model of similar dimensions. The passage of I communication (pointing to the model) is seen on the north side of Lilley's quarters in lighter coloured wood." 98 "Could the sentry see into Mrs. Lilley's bedroom?—From No. 2 room he could see into No. 3, Mrs. Lilley's bedroom, I should say not distinctly, without removing the chick that was on the door. "Could you see the sentry through the chick? —Yes, I have frequently seen the sentry over the lining of the chick; the chick was lined halfway up with a sort of red cotton. I could see the sentry's head over that. "Could he hear anything that was going on in the bedroom? — The conversation carried on in the bedroom could be heard in the other room distinctly, unless it was in an undertone; in my visits to Mrs. Lilley I always spoke to her in an undertone in asking her professional questions, lest it should be overheard by the sentry." "Was Mrs. Lilley ever confined to her bed during the confinement in either bungalow?— Yes, she was; she was a great part of each day in bed; sometimes she was much better, and then she sat up part of the day, but many days she was confined the whole day." "In your opinion, as a medical man, was the sentry at any time during the arrest placed in a position where he could not interfere with or annoy Mrs. Lilley?—I never observed any change in the position of the sentries in either bungalow, with the exception of the occasion I have already stated, when I met the sentry at the door of No. 4 room in the first bungalow." "I consider that the position of the sentry during the whole period of the sergeant major's arrest must have been an annoyance to Mrs. Lilley. "Do you remember the inconvenience to Mrs. Lilley being rendered less at any time during the arrest, from the alteration of the position of the sentry?—No, I do not. "Did you after the 7th of May observe any diminution of the inconvenience to Mrs. Lilley?—I observed no diminution of the inconvenience after the 7th of May." 99
 LORD FERMOY  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether the trial of Mr. Lynal Thomas's system of rifling large guns is completed, and whether he has any objection to produce the Report of the trials?
 LORD FERMOY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, What was the effect of the late change of dietary in Wakefield Prison on the Health of the Prisoners; and whether he will lay a Copy of the Correspondence on the subject, together with the Report of the Medical Officer, upon the table of the House?
 LORD FERMOY : Upon whose Report was the dietary discontinued?
 MR. HUNT  wished to know when the discussion would be taken on the principle of the Bill?
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, in reply, that the Notice of Motion which stood in his name, and the Notice of Amendment given by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, raised the same issue which was submitted to the House last year, and on which the House expressed an opinion by a large majority, that the Duty on Fire Insurances should be one of the first duties repealed or reduced. He thought he should be wasting the time of the House if he again brought forward the question without giving the Chancellor of the Exchequer an opportunity in his statement on the Budget of carrying out the expressed wishes of the House, and he would therefore, with the permission of the House, postpone his Motion on the subject until after the Financial Statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that the Bill simply embodied the clause in the English Act.
 MR. HENNESSY  moved for leave to introduce a Bill to Amend the Irish Poor Law. As there was to be no opposition he would reserve his statement.
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he would beg to ask the hon. Member for Dudley, Whether he will postpone his Motion for a Bill to reduce the Duty on Fire Insurances until after the Budget?
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he would beg to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, When a Return relative to Bishoprics, &c., in Ireland, ordered on the 7th of May last, and another relative to the Dioceses of Cashel, Emley, Waterford, and Lismore, ordered on the 5th of May last, and which, not having been presented to the House in the course of last year, were again ordered on the 9th of February last and the 12th of February last respectively, will be laid upon the table of the House?
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL  said, he could only speak as to the discipline of the Inniskillings when they left this country. He did not know what had happened afterwards.
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL  said, that the hon. Gentleman who brought forward this Motion had appealed to him to say something as to the state of discipline of the Inniskilling Dragoons. He was happy in bearing testimony to the efficiency and high character of the regiment. He could appeal to the flattering terms in which His Royal Highness the Commander-in-Chief had spoken of the Inniskilling Dragoons; and he could also appeal to the testimony of Lord Cardigan, the most particular, and, perhaps, the most efficient Inspector General of Cavalry, who ever rode down the ranks of a regiment, and who, at the last inspection before its departure for India, reported of its efficiency in higher terms than he had ever before reported of any regiment. As he was on his legs, he would say, that no one deprecated more than he did the irregular and frequent discussions in that House on matters connected with the discipline of the British army. At the same time, to borrow the expression of the noble Lord at the head of the Government, he confessed he was unable to "go the whole hog" with his hon. and gallant Friends around him in condemning the hon. Member for Andover (Mr. D. Fortescue). What was the state of things when the hon. Gentleman brought the question under the consideration of the House? A blight had fallen on the Inniskilling Dragoons, the scandal of a court-
 91 92
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  wished to say nothing disrespectful of Colonel Crawley, who was a King's County man, and one of five sons who had served Her Majesty with credit and distinction, but only to express his opinion on the large public question at issue. Certain officers of the Inniskilling Dragoons had been compelled to give evidence before the court-martial, and in consequence of that evidence were liable, without having an opportunity of defending themselves, to be put on half-pay or sent to the West Indies. That was, in his opinion, very hard and unjust usage. His own opinion was that His Royal Highness the Commander-in-Chief acted with great pluck in the matter; and whilst Generals Rose, Mansfield, and Fan-ell were the persons who ought really to have been held accountable for Sergeant Lilley's unjust imprisonment, Colonel Crawley had been made their scapegoat. He regretted that the particulars connected with the affair had been much exaggerated, the
 95
 MR. SMOLLETT  said, the hon. Gentleman had spoken of the prison as an oven, and confinement in an oven implied baking. The hon. Member told them, that so convinced were the relatives of Sergeant Major Lilley that he had been judicially murdered, that his relatives were determined to take criminal proceedings against the offender if he set his foot in England, and he stated that there were abundant witnesses to speak to the truth of that statement. That would be found reported in  The Times 83 Gazette 84 85
 MR. SMOLLETT  said, he thought that the present debate was more a personal explanation of the Member for Andover than a Motion for papers, and in his judgment the statement made by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Fortescue) last Session was not capable of modification. He thought the hon. Gentleman ought to have retracted the statement he made then, and that an apology was due to the House and to the country; for it was owing to that "sensation speech" of the hon. Member that the court-martial was ordered at Aldershot, and that £20,000 of public money had been thrown away. The hon. Gentleman had told them of the arrest of Sergeant Major Lilley on April 24, and said that he had been detained for thirty days; that the detention was illegal; that the sergeant was confined in a single bomb-proof room, so ingeniously constructed that it resembled a furnace, being heated by the sun during the day, and never cool during the night. He had said that his wife was imprisoned along with him, a woman so reduced by diarrhæa that she was unable to rise from her bed, and he complained of the indignity put upon her by the sentinels being placed in her apartment; and that
 82
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade, in reference to the following passage in the Report of the Select Committee on Metropolitan Railways—
 "The Committee are of opinion that some of the provisions of 'The Companies Clauses Consolidation Act, 1845,' require revision in relation to Metropolitan arrangements, and they recommend the introduction of a Bill for that purpose,"
 MR. KEKEWICH  said, he wished to ask the President of the Poor Law Board, Whether his attention has been called to the great increase of applications for relief by the casual poor, especially in the Southern Districts; and whether he proposes to issue any instructions to the Boards of Guardians on the subject, or whether he thinks it desirable that all vagrants making application for relief should have their names entered in a register by the Police?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON , in reply, said, the subject was under consideration. Such a Bill as was referred to would probably be introduced during the Session, but not until after the inquiry before the Select Committee on Metropolitan Railways had taken place.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that in all likelihood he would propose that this Bill should be passed through Committee  pro formâ
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was not his fault if, on the second reading, there had been only a moderate amount of discussion. Any hon. Member who chose could again discuss the principle of the Bill, on the Motion for its re-committal, after it had been passed through Committee  pro formâ
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was at a loss to understand what the noble Lord meant by "Expenditure without Account," unless he meant expenditure upon interest, which was constantly going on. It was advances for various services, which were advances made to meet the exigencies of the public service before any final account could be rendered. In all cases where expenditure of that kind took place, the persons to whom it was made were strictly accountable to the Commissioners of Audit. It was the business of the Commissioners of Audit to see that proper vouchers were given.
 MR. FERRAND  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If he will direct the engineer appointed to examine the Bradfield Reservoir to visit and report upon the Doe Park Reservoir, belonging to the Corporation of Bradford, which is in a leaky and dangerous state? He had, about two years ago, called the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to the dangerous state of this Reservoir, when the right hon. Gentleman communicated by telegraph with the Mayor of Bradford, the reservoir being the property of the corporation. The answer of
 12
 SIR GEORGE GREY  stated, in reply, that about two years ago the hon. Member addressed to him a letter on the state of the reservoir, which the hon. Gentleman considered to be in a dangerous state. In consequence, he communicated, not by telegraph but by letter, with the Mayor of Bradford, expressing a confident expectation that the corporation of that town would take every measure in their power with a view to insure the safety of the public. He received an immediate answer, describing what had been done with respect to the reservoir at that time, and stating that it was intended to have it carefully examined by the engineer. A few days afterwards he received a Report from the engineer as to the measures taken, and that Report appeared quite satisfactory. From that time he had not heard one word on the subject of the reservoir, and he regretted that the matter had not been brought under his notice earlier if the hon. Gentleman thought that the reservoir was again dangerous. He had received a letter that day on the subject from the hon. Gentleman, and he had written to the Mayor of Bradford calling for a Report.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : It was the Report of the Medical Officer to the Visiting Justices.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that a change had been made in the dietary in Wakefield Prison as an experiment. At the end of six months the visiting justices said that it had not been long enough in operation for them to form a decided opinion on it. The medical officer, however, gave such an unfavourable report of the effect of the diet in lowering the health of the prisoners and in increasing the mortality, that he had ordered it to be suspended. An inquiry was at present going on into the whole question of prison dietary?
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, When the Returns relative to National Education (Ireland), ordered in the present Session, will be laid upon the table; for what reason the Annual Report of the Commissioners of National Education (Ireland) for the year 1862 has not yet been presented
 13
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he wished to know, whether the right hon. Baronet is aware that, in July last, under the name of a Report of the Commissioners, there was laid on the table what was called in that House a "dummy," and nothing in the shape of a Report was laid on the table. He desired to know, when the second Report will be laid on the table?
 SIR JAMBS FERGUSSON  said, he did not think it possible that the scandal affecting the 6th Dragoon Guards, which had
 60 "The place where Sergeant Major Lilley was confined was a single room in a bomb-proof building, formerly used as cavalry stables, and which had since been pulled down;-is unfit fur the occu-
 61 Hansard "There, in the presence of strange men, renewed from day to day and from hour to hour, and posted three feet from her bed, all the functions of nature had to be performed by this dying woman." "Sergeant Major Lilley was at first confined to his own quarters, where he had several apartments; but that when he was ordered under confinement he was removed from his proper quarters to others where he was confined to a single room. It was in the single room that the sentry was posted. On that point he spoke from the testimony of two eye-witnesses."—[3  Hansard
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he did not retract a word. He believed the hon. Member for Andover sincerely believed all he said, but he had been made the vehicle of falsehood. He would not make quotations from the proceedings at the court-martial for the purpose of proving this; he would leave hon. Gentlemen to satisfy themselves on the point. The hon. Member had two courses before him — to apologize to the House, or take exception to the proceedings of the court-martial. He had not adopted either, but raised fresh issues. That was a course not consistent with what he thought fair in regard to this case. He hoped and believed that the credit and position of the officers impugned would not suffer from what had been said, but he still thought great and grievous injustice had been done to them. There was no department on which that injustice rested more heavily than on that of the Judge Advocate General, and he did the right hon. Gentleman no wrong in saying so, as he had the full opportunity of reply.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he had copied the extracts which he had read from  Hansard's Parliamentary Debates Hansard The Times 62 sobriquet 63 ex parte ex parte ex parte 64 65 Alexandra The Times of India 66
 MR. MOWBRAY  said, he was quite sure that there was one point in his right hon. Friend's statement which all would agree in—that he had stated with perfect fairness and frankness to the House that night all the proceedings in his own office connected with the court-martial on Colonel Crawley. But with respect to the Mhow Court Martial, he thought the House had a right to expect a further reference than that which his right hon. Friend had given. With respect to that court-martial, his right hon. Friend said that his course was clear and simple; but what was alleged in reference to that court-martial was, that the vacillating judgments which had been pronounced upon it tended very much to subvert the administration of military justice in India. Now, let him call attention to the particular dates of that court-martial. It was, he believed, concluded on the 9th of June, 1862, and its proceedings were confirmed by Sir Hugh Rose on the 11th of July, and they reached this country about the month of October, 1862. Some time in the month of November, those proceedings having come to my right hon. Friend s office, and full time for its consideration having been afforded him, he advised that the proceedings, and the sentence passed in accordance with those proceedings, were legal; and acting upon that opinion, the memorandum of the Commander-in-Chief was issued, and Captain Smales was gazetted out of the regiment on the 18th December, and his name disappeared from the  Army List 76 "Whereas the Commander-in-Chief in England submits to Her Majesty the name of any officer who, having been tried by court-martial, is sentenced to be cashiered, and the actual cashiering does not take place until the Queen's pleasure has been taken, in India the flat of the Commander-in-Chief in that country is absolute, and no reference is made to the Queen's pleasure." 77 78 judex advocatus judex advocatus 79 Simmons on Courts Martial "Mr. Tytler considers that the Judge Advocate is bound to assist the prisoner in the conduct of his defence; but it is more in consonance with the custom of the service that the Judge Advocate should only interfere to the extent to which the Court itself is bound to interpose, to take care that the prisoner shall not suffer from a want of knowledge of the law, or from a deficiency of experience or of ability to elicit from witnesses, or to develop by the testimony which in the course of the trial may present itself, a full statement of the facts of the case as bearing on the defence. To this end the court-martial and Judge Advocate are bound, it is conceived, to offer their advice to the prisoner. Justice is the object for which the Court is convened and the Judge Advocate appointed. To this aim all their inquiries ought to be directed; and if in the prosecution of this design the prisoner should be benefited, the efforts of the Court or of the Judge Advocate will have been satisfactorily and legitimately exerted." 80 The Times 81 "A strong line of demarcation must be drawn between soldiers and the rest of the community; they must be subject to a sharper code and to a more stringent form of procedure than are administered by the ordinary tribunals. For of all maladies incident to the body politic military insubordination is that which requires the most prompt and drastic remedies."
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he must admit that on the 23rd of July it was a "dummy" that was laid upon the table. It was at a time when Members were going away for the holydays. The Report was now laid on the table.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL , in reply, said, all the Returns referred to would be laid on the table in the course of the evening. As to the Annual Report of the Commissioners for 1862, that was laid on the table of the House on the 23rd of July last year. With regard to the Report of 1863, he had learnt from the First Commissioner that the Annual Report, but not the Appendix, would be ready on the 1st of June; and with respect to the correspondence between himself and the Commissioners on the subject, there was no objection to lay Copies on the table.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL , in reply, said, the Return ordered on the 7th of May would be laid on the table that evening. The other Returns had been made out in an improper form, and had been returned to Dublin for correction.
 SIR WILLIAM FRASER  would repeat the observation of the hon. Member for Stoke-upon-Trent (Mr. H. R. Grenfell), that if the Inniskilling Dragoons were in a mutinous state when Colonel Crawley joined them, the charge against Colonel Crawley fell to the ground. Sir William Fraser thought that nothing produced so great an effect on the public mind during the long and painful investigation at Aldershot as the alleged state of the Inniskilling Dragoons before Colonel Crawley joined. He had formerly two near relatives in this regiment, and he would not say a single word against the gallantry of the regiment in former days, or its discipline in later days; but the House should have before it some evidence of the condition of the regiment at the time Colonel Crawley joined. It would be found that when Colonel Crawley joined, the regiment was in a very unsatisfactory condition. That officer put a question which was very pertinent when he asked the Horse Guards to produce the letter of Colonel Shute to His Royal Highness the Duke of Cambridge; every one expected that letter would have been produced, the Court having decided that it was relevant, and were astonished when it was not produced. He would be the last to demur to the course His Royal Highness the Duke of Cambridge took in declining to produce that letter, as he had no doubt whatever that His Royal Highness believed it was to the best interest of the British army that it should not be produced; but there could be no doubt whatever that the absence of that letter had a material effect on the interests of Colonel Crawley; and the public felt that although the prosecution was not identified with the Ministers of the Queen, the withholding of this letter was not fair. He firmly believed that it would have shown that the regiment was not in so perfect a state as it was believed to be when Colonel Crawley joined it, and his ground for this was the letter of His Royal Highness the Duke of Cambridge to Sir Hugh Rose, dated 14th January, 1864, the statements in which were to the effect that the regiment when Colonel Crawley joined had materially changed from what it had formerly been, and that the discipline of the regiment, be far as the officers were concerned, was impaired. The Duke of Cambridge added, that this bad state of feeling among a
 96
 MR. GRANT DUFF : Sir, I regret to find that the hon. Baronet who has just sat down has no intention of accepting the conciliatory proposal of my hon. Friend the Member for East Sussex. That proposal should not be misunderstood. We have no idea of yielding the point about the vote in Convocation; all we say is that that point, although an important one, is but a single point, and not the principle of the Bill, and we think that the fight over it might well be postponed till we go into Committee; but before I go further, Sir, there is one assertion of the hon. Baronet so novel and extraordinary, that I must really
 117 118 119 120 ex animo 121
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he would not detain the House for more than two or three minutes. It seemed to him that the difference between the two sides of the House would be completely bridged over if the author of the Bill would only insert in it three words, placing Oxford exactly on the same footing as Cambridge. The arguments which had been used went to that extent; and those which had been used by the Chancellor of the Exchequer were very strong—he thought totally irrefragable. Some hon. Members, he was aware, went a great deal further than that, and would have no tests at all, not even a subscription for clergymen; but with such he could not agree. He did not think the hon. Member for Sussex, who moved the Bill, would go so far as that. The hon. Member for the City of Oxford had said that all he wanted was to proceed upon the same principle as the House of Commons and the State acts upon. When Members took their seats, they must all take an oath abjuring certain doctrines as injurious to the State. Even the Queen on the throne took an oath, and submitted to a test without which a Stuart would now be on the throne. They had no business to inquire into the private opinions of a man. In his private capacity he had a perfect right to hold what opinions and notions he chose; but it was a different matter when he became a public teacher. When he took upon him a national office he was bound to teach only those doctrines which had been approved by the nation. The nation considered it a duty to give religious education to the people. The State paid for that education; for endowments, educational endowments, although originally established by individuals, were dealt with at the time of the Reformation as national property, and must now be so considered; they paid so much money for having certain religious principles instilled into the people. It was therefore necessary to define accurately what should be taught; or rather,
 145 Essays and Reviews "That only is matter of accusation, which is advisedly taught or maintained by a clergyman, in opposition to the doctrine of the Church." A fortiori imperium in imperio 146
 MR. BUXTON  said, that hon. Gentlemen opposite argued that the House ought to adopt their views because they represented the opinions of the majority of Members of Oxford University. But could the House forget what had occurred a few day since, when the whole governing body of Oxford was overcome by an irruption of angry bigots from every corner of the land? And yet hon. Gentlemen opposite invited the House to submit to the judgment of a mere numerical majority like that! In his opinion no attempt had been made either by the hon. Baronet or the hon. and learned Member for Cambridge University, to meet the great argument in favour of the Bill—that the present system weighed with cruel oppression upon the consciences of many young men. According to the present system, if a young man hesitated to accept the tests, he was marked as a Dissenter or a sceptic, and consequently in most cases men forced themselves to swallow the tests, although with reluctance. Thus the University tempted the young men whom it fostered to tamper with their consciences by pretending to accept that concerning which they entertained serious doubts. Coming to the Bill itself, they had been told that the real aim of this proposal was to assail the Established Church. That he denied. Practically, the hold of the Church of England on the University would remain exactly what it was then. Even should a few Dissenters make their way into Convocation, they would be an almost imperceptible minority, and under the provisions of the Bill every functionary of the University, and every one actually engaged in teaching, would still have to declare himself a  bona fide 147 "It is most agreeable to our Kingly office not to permit unnecessary disputations, or questions to be raised…. We do, therefore, require all our loving subjects to continue in the uniform profession of the Articles of the Church, and we prohibit the least difference from the said Articles." Again, it says that, "From the doctrine and discipline of the Church of England we will not endure any varying or departing in the least degree;" the conclusion—the logical conclusion— being that "if any person in either of our Universities shall hold any public disputations upon the Thirty-nine Articles, he shall be liable to our displeasure, and we will see there shall be due execution upon him." 148 149
 MR. NEATE  begged to second the Motion. He confessed that he entered into the question of the tests with the greatest reluctance. His long and still continued connection with the University of Oxford, although it would not allow him to shrink from the task of bearing testimony to, he believed, the justice of the proposed Bill, nevertheless brought him in direct opposition to several persons whom he had ever regarded with feelings of respect and affection. Whatever pleasure he might have felt in his association with such men, he now felt proportionate pain in opposing them. He did not concur with all that had been said by his hon. Friend in reference to the character of the Oxford Convocation and of their petition. The University of Oxford—he spoke of the resident body of it—was composed of men who were not only eminently just and virtuous, but also a very wise and tolerant body. He could well understand how reluctant they might be to adopt a measure which, though it might not destroy, yet they felt it might seriously impair, the character of the University in its connection with the Church of England—a measure which might seem to give to religious teaching a less definite and authoritative character than it now possessed. It was not, however, his intention to enter into the objections urged against this Bill. Before he took leave of that part of the subject he would willingly distinguish the resident body of the University from that extraneous element, which, however glad they were to see them at their commemorations, when they added so much to the
 109 110 111 112 113
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he had felt
 122 123 bonâ fide bonâ fide bonâ fide 124 125 bona fide bona fide 126 127
 MR. SELWYN  said, he had not intended to take part in that debate, but, as the hon. Member for East Sussex (Mr. Dodson) had appealed to him, and as the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had referred to the case of the University of Cambridge, and by a mistaken application of that case, had endeavoured to lead the House away from the matter before it—namely, the principle of the Bill, he felt called upon to offer a few remarks, with the view of bringing the House back to the proper subject of their discussion. In answer to the appeal of the hon. Member for East Sussex he was ready to admit that the Act of 1856 had not in any degree severed the connection between the University of Cambridge and the Church of England; but he could not endorse the assertion of that hon. Member, which had been repeated by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that the effect of the Bill before them would be to assimilate the condition of the two Universities. On the contrary, they had only to compare two statements made in the able and temperate speech of the hon. Gentleman in introducing the Bill, to see how wide a difference there would be between the two Universities under a measure like the present. The first of those statements was that the object of the Bill was the admission of persons to all degrees without any religious test whatever. With regard to that statement, the hon. Member for Sussex was correct, but the Chancellor of the Exchequer quite as incorrect. The second statement of the hon. Member for East Sussex was to the effect that the Bill would admit persons without any religious test to the Convocation, which was the Parliament of the University. Let them take together these two statements, the accuracy of which he acknowledged, and contrast them with the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who admitted that it would be a great evil to admit persons to the governing body of the University without a religious test. But was not the Parliament of the University its governing body? If so, would not the very evil which the right hon. Gentleman had deprecated, directly follow from the Bill which he had; so earnestly supported? Then they were told that, under the Act, the University of Oxford would be in the same position as
 138 bonâ fide 139 140 141 142 Bella geri placuit nullos habitura triumphos 143
 MR. SELWYN  begged to second the Amendment.
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, the hon. Member who had last spoken was in error in saying that the principle of the Bill was to admit to the government of the University per-
 155
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he rose to move the second reading of this Bill, the object of which was to put an end to one of the greatest abuses that existed in connection with the law. At present, when a purchase or transfer of land was made, the purchaser had to make search for any judgments that might exist before the purchase could be completed. No matter in what part of England he might be, he had to search every register for possible incumbrances, and to continue the search down to the very morning on which the purchase was completed. That, of course, was only done at great expense, and was a great abuse and hardship. He had communicated with the hon. and learned Attorney General on the subject, and he believed that the Government would not object to the second reading of the Bill on the understanding that it should be referred to a Select Committee. He felt justified in assenting to that proposal, and he trusted that the result of the deliberations of the Committee would be satisfactory. He might state that the proposed measure would not in any way affect Ireland.
 MR. DODSON , in moving the Second Reading of the Bill, said: Two tests are now required at Oxford as necessary conditions for the degree of Master of Arts or of Doctor of any Faculty. The one is a subscription to the Thirty-nine Articles, the other a subscription to the Three Articles of the 36th Canon. This last involves assent to the whole of the Prayer Book, and further a promise, absurd enough when required of a layman, that he will use that book only in public prayer, and administer the Sacrament according to its rites. These tests are accompanied by a declaration that the graduate subscribes to them heartily, willingly, and to their fullest extent. The Bill proposes to abolish these subscriptions on taking any degree. It does not even except degrees in divinity, for these degrees are only conferred upon persons in holy orders, or at all events upon such as have been pronounced by the bishops qualified to take holy orders. A test in such a case appears superfluous, and therefore better omitted. Let it, however, be distinctly understood, that the Bill does not interfere with the discipline or religious teaching of the University. It leaves untouched the declaration of conformity to the liturgy which the Act of Uniformity requires of all heads of houses, fellows, and tutors. It leaves untouched those University statutes which require such persons or any professors to be members of the Church of England, or, at all events, to teach nothing contrary to her doctrines. The Bill itself provides that no graduate shall in virtue of his degree take any office in or out of the University hitherto confined to churchmen, unless he shall have made a declaration of membership with the Church. The form of declaration is borrowed from Cambridge, was framed by that University, and is by her required of her own untested graduates as a sufficient qua-
 103 104 105 106 "That this Bill, should it become law, would destroy to a great extent the existing securities that the government, teaching, and discipline of the University, and of its colleges and halls, shall be intrusted to members of the Church of England. That as to the colleges generally, it would remove the most important of those securities, whilst with respect to the University as a whole it would abolish them altogether." "That such a change would not tend to promote the efficiency, harmony, and general interests of the University, but would, on the contrary, as your petitioners believe, be injurious both to the University and to the Church." 107 "That the Oxford University Act, 1854, whilst it abolished all subscriptions and declarations at matriculation, and on taking the Bachelor's degree, left untouched the conditions required for taking those degrees which confer a share in the government of the University as a corporate and educating body. And that no cause has since arisen for depriving the University of the power then left in its hands, of retaining or modifying those conditions as may in its deliberate judgment be best for the interests intrusted to its care." 108
 MR. DODSON  said, he thought he had
 158
 MR. WALTER  said, it was very discouraging to Members who, like himself, felt great difficulty in making up their minds upon the subject to find, upon looking for guidance and information to those Gentlemen who from their position might be supposed to understand the question, that they were rather at cross purposes upon it. Such was certainly the case in the present discussion. Whatever might be the intentions of the hon. Member for East Sussex, there could be no doubt that the Bill, as it stood, went the whole length of throwing open Convocation or the governing body of the University of Oxford to all persons indiscriminately, without the application of a theological test. But the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in supporting the second reading, told the House that that was not what he meant; that he did not want to throw open Convocation; that he thought the connection of the Church of England with the governing body of the University should be maintained as it at present existed. When, however, that element was taken out of the Bill nothing would remain in it. The only grievance to be dealt with, then, was of so slight and imperceptible a nature that it was difficult to understand what it was. He had himself been a Master of Arts of Oxford University for twenty years, but he had not considered it a privilege of so extraordinary a nature that he should go far out of his way to obtain it. When the whole object of the Bill, as weeded by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, would be to confer the barren privilege of being a Master of Arts without a right of voting, upon certain individuals not members of the Church of England, he did not think such an object was worth the time or trouble of
 154 bonâ fide bonâ fide
 MR. WALPOLE : The hon. Gentleman who has just spoken has his name on the back of the Bill, but he has certainly not made more clear than it was before what is its principle. The principle announced by the Mover, and which is contained in the Bill itself, is exactly that which was so clearly stated by my hon. Friend the Member for Oxford University (Sir William Heathcote)—namely, to admit to the governing body of the University persons who are not members of the Church of England. That is the principle contained in the Bill. The principle contended for by the hon. Seconder is to go still further, and to admit
 156 157
 MR. COLLINS  said, he was of the same opinion, and he hoped it would be understood that, in assenting to the second reading, the House did not pledge itself to the principle of the Bill.
 MR. SCULLY  said, that personally he might be thought in a dilemma with regard to the measure before the House, being bound by his duty as a Catholic to do nothing to strengthen, and by the oath he had taken as a Catholic Member to do nothing to weaken the Church of England; yet he should support the second reading of the Bill, which he did not think would impair its legitimate strength. It did not strengthen the Church of England to see three distinguished Members for the Universities out of four opposing indiscriminately the second reading of a Bill which would only enable those who could write B.A. after their names to write M.A. To that extent only the Chancellor of the Exchequer went in his support of the Bill. He was sorry the right hon. Gentleman was Member for the University of Oxford; if he were free from that incubus there could be little doubt he would soon go the length of advocating the admission of Dissenters to the University as members of Convocation. He did not see what mischief that could do to the Church of England. He would not go into the religious question. The hon. and learned Member who last spoke gave no reason whatever why the degree of M.A. at Oxford should be placed on a different footing from that in which it stood at Cambridge. Both Universities should act on the same principle. He believed the mere teaching and preaching of the Church of England were open to the members of all persuasions, to Dissenters, Turks, or Infidels, who were all rigidly excluded from the loaves and fishes. The admission of Dissenters into Convocation was not a question of religion, but of loaves and fishes. Nothing was talked of but mixed education for Ireland; why should not the same system be adopted in Oxford? Two years ago he accompanied a deputation to the Government for the purpose of securing a charter for the Catholic University of Ireland. The noble Lord at the head of the Government talked in a strain of great liberality of mixed education, and would not countenance anything exclusive, although he took the liberty of reminding him that in the public schools of Eton, Harrow, Rugby,
 144
 MR. SCULLY  said, he had no objection to the Bill as far as it went, though it was but a very small instalment of a much larger measure. In his opinion, a registration of titles would be the best machinery for the purpose of facilitating the sale and transfer
 102
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, we are invited to reject this Bill on the second reading by the Motion of my hon. Friend and Colleague the Member for the University (Sir William Heathcote), and if there is any voice and any authority in this House which would weigh with me to adopt such a course, they are the voice and the authority of my hon. Friend. For many years we have represented the University in common, and I do not know that on any great question involving her interests or the interests of the Church, although we have sat during those years on different sides of this House, we have ever materially or widely differed. But, Sir, I am not able on this occasion to follow the call of my hon. Friend, and I cannot help expressing the regret with which I heard the conclusion at which he had arrived, and that he was to move the rejection of this Bill. My hon. Friend must not underrate through his natural modesty the importance of his own position. If I view these questions aright, I believe they are questions that can only be settled by the mediating influence of intelligent minds, and the weight of character; and the judgment and intelligence of my hon. Friend, and the deservedly great weight attaching to his character, qualify him, perhaps more than any other, so to mediate and bring about a kindly accommodation of these difficult and contested questions. But my hon. Friend refuses to accept that task, and invites us to reject this Bill on the second reading. Let us consider, then, a little, the position in which we stand. It has been said—and said, I think, with irrefragable truth — by my hon. Friend who is the main author of this Bill, that the question of the application of religious tests in the University of Oxford has been partially considered, but never has been
 128 prima facie 129 bonâ fide bonâ fide 130 bonâ fide primâ facie 131 bonâ fide 132 133 134 135 136 137
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, he feared that the effect of the Bill would be to discourage  bona fide
 SIR GEORGE GREY  stated, on the part of the Attorney General, that he had no objection to the Motion, so that the Bill might afterwards be referred to a Select Committee.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I only wish to say that, in voting for this Bill, I distinctly disavow doing so upon the assumption that its principle is such as has been described by hon. Gentlemen on the opposite side — the severance of the connection between the Church and the University. I do not find that principle in the Bill. If we were reading this Bill now a third time, that might be the effect of it. But we are not reading the Bill a third time. We shall have to go into Committee upon it if this stage is passed. I have now only to look to the principle, and that I take to be that there shall no longer be any test upon taking academical degrees with certain qualifications. In the Cambridge Act the qualifications are enumerated. It says that an M.A. degree taken without test shall not enable any person to become a member of the Senate or to fill certain offices. My hon. Friend proposes to consider in Committee the question of adding the qualifications which are not now inserted in the Bill, to the effect that an M.A. degree shall not entitle any person to become a member of Convocation without test. No one can deny that it will be competent to add that qualification when the Bill gets into Committee.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, a similar Bill had been introduced last year and referred to a Select Committee. The Bill, however, as now introduced, was consider ably different from the shape in which it was reported by that Committee, and its details would require great consideration. He should, however, not oppose the second reading.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he had no wish to detain the House by entering deeply into the somewhat desultory discussion to which the Bill had given rise, but before a division took place he wished to recal the minds of hon. Members to the exact position in which they stood, and to justify the position they had taken upon that side of the House. They had been censured by very high authority for what had been called "indiscriminate resistance" to measures of this kind. The justification for indiscriminate resistance on the present occasion was to be found in what he must call the indiscriminate nature of the attack. Let the House remember what was the exact position of the Bill. It was a remarkable fact that there had been no less than three distinct views taken as to the intentions and object of the Bill. The hon. Gentleman who introduced the Bill, in a speech of great moderation, said that he was about to introduce no new principle, but simply to complete what had been begun in 1854 that the principle of 1854 was, that education at the Universities should be thrown open to Dissenters, and this Bill was simply the complement of what was done in 1854. The hon. Gentleman said that it was not only the education but the degree which stamped that education which was of importance. Upon that point the hon. Gentleman was set right by the seconder of the Motion, who was himself practically acquainted with the subject, who said in effect that it was a delusion to say that the conferring a degree of M.A. was giving a stamp to the education that had been received, That stamp was given when, after passing through the curriculum, a man obtained the degree of B.A. The hon. Gentleman who seconded the Motion, however, said he wanted something more—that the prizes of the Universities should be open to Dissenters, a step which the mover did not seem to wish to take, nor the Bill to contemplate. Then there was the view taken
 150 in toto 151 152 153
 MR. BAZLEY  begged to second the Motion.
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  said, that he rose to move an Amendment, of which he had given notice. The Bill bore on its face the avowal of the principle, that there should be a disruption of the connection which had hitherto prevailed between that which, with all deference to the mover, he must call the governing body of the University of Oxford and the Church of England. If there had been any doubt as to the real intention of the measure, it would have been removed by the remarks of his hon. Friend who had charge of the Bill, and still more by the very able speech of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Oxford City (Mr. Neate). Notwithstanding the disclaimer of his hon. Friend the Member for East Sussex (Mr. Dodson) he held Convocation to be the governing body at Oxford. It was the court of ultimate resort; it passed the
 114 115 116
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, When he intends to present the Indian Budget to the House; and whether, considering the importance of bringing the affairs of India under the review of Parliament, he cannot arrange the Indian Financial Year in such a manner as to be able to present the Budget in the early part, of the Session instead as heretofore in the last week of the Session to an empty and exhausted House?
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, When he will be prepared to state to the House the measures he proposes to adopt in order to remedy the grievances of the Officers of the Indian Army, stated by the "Royal Commission on Memorials of Indian Officers" to have arisen by departures from the assurances given by Parliament?
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, he wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman would bring forward the statement in May or in August?
 MR. COWPER  said, in reply, that he had been in communication with the Commissioners of Patents with the view of finding more extended accommodation both for their offices and museum. There was, however, great difficulty in making a suitable arrangement. The offices ought to be in a situation where there would be ready access to those professional gentlemen who were engaged in legal proceedings in regard to patents; and the museum was required to be accessible to the general public, and particularly to those who were interested in inventions. At present, no site had been found. That to which his hon. Friend alluded, between Fife House and the intended embankment of the Thames, was not at present available, and could not be disposed of until the river works had made greater progress, and streets had been laid out on each side in connection with the embankment.
 MR. COWPER  said, his reply was that no decision had been come to as to the use to which Fife House was to be applied. The matter was at present under consideration.
 MR. COWPER  said, in reply, that the Report of the Thames Embankment Commissioners last year contained a very valuable recommendation for the enlargement of the open space in the neighbourhood of the Victoria Tower, by the extension of Old Palace Yard and the embankment of the river to the south of that tower. Thus the wharves which were now filled with destructible materials would be removed, and a source of danger to the Houses of Parliament avoided. That recommendation, however, would, if carried out, involve the expenditure of a very large sum of money, and he was unable at the present moment to inform his hon. Friend that he had any proposal to make on the subject.
 MR. COWPER  said, he would inquire into the matter.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  was understood to say that he would introduce a Bill for the Consolidation of the Church Building Acts and New Parishes Acts after Easter.
 SIR HERVEY BRUCE  said, he rose to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether he considers the Instructions issued to the Constabulary in that Country in May, 1860, relieve them from the duties of properly watching the towns of Ireland by night, which appears clearly to have been their duty under the Instructions issued in October, 1837.
 MR. PEEL  said, in reply, that in certain cases where payments were made the issues were made "without account." In such cases the Audit Office would be satisfied, provided a due receipt were given for the total issue, and if authority were produced from the audit accountant. Those were all the cases in which a claim had to be submitted before a direction was given for payment. The examination of the vouchers was not made by the Lords of the Treasury. The examination of the salaries of Foreign officials was made by the Foreign Office.
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR,  in rising to move the Amendment of which he had given, notice, begged to ask the indulgence of the House, for he especially felt the difficulty of his position after the very extraordinary and exciting scene which had just occurred. He could not refrain from expressing his deep regret that personal feeling should have formed so large an element in this debate. The motives of the right hon. Gentleman were, he was satisfied, thoroughly pure and honest in bringing forward this measure, and no doubt he had done so with the feelings that it would be for the benefit of the industrial classes. The right hon. Gentleman had stated, that the Report of the Registrar of Friendly Societies was the foundation of the Bill; that Report having recorded many failures, and many very gross abuses. He (Sir Minto Farquhar) had referred to that Report, and he found that most of the complaints from members of Friendly Societies in different parts of the country had reference to the expenditure of funds in beer, dinners, processions, and what might be called outside charitable subscriptions. The Registrar had brought this question under the no-
 212 "The Bill had grown, not out of the case of Life Assurance Societies, but out of a considera-
 213 214 s s "No doubt this must be admitted as a boon and as a government subsidy, but how many of the existing societies are entitled to those benefits? It appears that in 1857 out of 3,073 societies which gave returns of their duration, 1,672 were under twenty years of existence, and 2,714 under forty; so that if this proportion holds good as to other societies the returns of which are not sent in, by far the greater number are not receiving the benefit of either rate to which the statement refers. Under the Act 1850 this privilege only amounts to an investment with the Commissioners for the reduction of the National Debt at a rate of interest of £3 0 s d 215 216 217 218 The Standard 219
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR : I do not make the imputation. I said the other night that I did not impute any such intention.
 LORD STANLEY : I entirely understand the objection to inquire into the general question of the constitution and solvency of Friendly Societies in a Committee upon this Bill. Such an inquiry would be one of almost interminable length; it would render impossible the passing of the Bill in the present Session, and there are other reasons which would make such an investigation difficult in the present Parliament, if it is meant to be complete and thorough-going. There seem then to be but two alternatives. We must either proceed with the Bill after a continuance of the debate, or else accept the compromise of the Chancellor of the Ex-
 250
 LORD HENRY LENNOX : No one is more averse than I am to enter into any controversy in this House which can be considered of a personal nature. But there are some questions which, though immediately personal in appearance, are of great and paramount interest to the country, and I venture to say that the question now before the House is of that kind. The hon. Gentleman has stated that, on the first occasion, he expressed his feeling of indignation and astonishment at the speech of the Procureur Général. His in-
 265 acte d'accusation Moniteur "Two other names more ought to be cited—that of Mr. James Stansfeld, brewer, of London, who has made himself banker of Mazzini.  Enfin "In your portmanteau was found the address of a brewer (le Sieur James Stansfeld) known as being the banker of Mazzini?" "Yes, but because he was to introduce me to some English opticians for the sale of my goods." 266
 MR. KINGLAKE : Will the noble Lord state what is the basis of the Conference?
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, he trusted that if the hon. Member withdrew his Motion he would secure a very early day after the recess for bringing it forward, again.
 MR. PEEL  said, he had to move a Vote of £1,256,000, on account of the Civil Service Estimates. It was absolutely necessary to pass the Vote before the House separated for the Easter recess.
 LORD ALFRED CHURCHILL  said, he rose to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether, taking into consideration the great inconveniences of the present Patent Office, it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government, in accordance with the recommendation of the Patent Commissioners, to afford facilities for erecting suitable Patent Offices, including library and museums, &c., upon the site of Fife House, Whitehall, it appearing that the Crown lease of this property has recently expired, and that the Commissioners of Patents have ample funds at their disposal for building purposes?
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, he could not rest silent under the unjustifiable imputations of the hon. Member for Birmingham, who had deliberately charged the Opposition with being actuated by most improper motives and by party objects in bringing forward this Motion. What right had the hon. Member to interfere in a proceeding which, as the right hon. Gentleman had said, was of somewhat a judicial character, by casting such unworthy and wholesale imputations? He appealed to the right hon. Gentleman in the chair, whether such imputations were not forbidden by the usages of the House. For himself, he disclaimed any such motives; but he had a painful feeling that it was the duty of the House to purge itself from the unfortunate position in which the hon. Member's indiscretion had placed it. The hon. Member had had more than one opportunity of making a full explanation of his conduct. Instead of doing so he had risen and delivered a bombastic declaration against assassination, but he had denied nothing. The right hon. Gentleman had spoken of candour, but he could see nothing candid in the conduct of the hon. Gentleman. He himself had asked the hon. Member a distinct question, which he hoped might have elicited a satisfactory explanation, but in vain. Two days afterwards Mazzini, through  The Times 283
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  seconded the Motion.
 LORD HARRY VANE : Sir, I am one of those who have heard with regret some of the explanations which have been just offered by the hon. Gentleman. I certainly think the House will admit that the explanations which the hon. Gentleman has given us to-night is of a more satisfactory character than that which we heard the other night. What he stated the other night was no explanation at all. It was simply a defence of the character of M. Mazzini. Now, we have nothing to do here with the character of Mazzini. Certainly, it is not our duty to defend it. We have no right to go against the whole moral sense of Europe. We are not called upon, and we ought not to set ourselves against the opinions of united Europe. I say, without fear of contradiction, that in every part of Europe—among all classes—among all ranks—among all men of honourable feeling, there is but one feeling, but one sentiment, with respect to the general conduct, feelings, principles, and actions of M. Mazzini. It is a mistake to suppose that that opinion with respect to him is confined alone to the Imperialist party in France. I speak from personal knowledge, and from a large acquaintance with the people of France. I have discussed this subject elsewhere. I know that of men of all sides, of all principles, of all colours, except, perhaps, the remnant of the party of 1793, including even the republicans, who were supporters of General Cavaignac, all condemn the principles of M. Mazzini. There is no one whose ideas and whose name are now held in such abhorrence throughout Europe. No one ever suspected that the hon. Gentleman himself has been guilty of participation
 264
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, the hon. Gentleman had left unanswered his question as to whether he denied the right of the local Government and Legislature to arrange their taxation as they deemed most expedient.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he wished the hon. Gentleman would explain the observations he had made. He had attacked the Governor and Parliament of New South Wales for some legislative enactment they had passed, and he wished to know whether, in that attack, the hon. Gentleman intended to deny the right of the Parliament of New South Wales to arrange their system of taxation as they themselves thought most advantageous?
 LORD JOHN MANNERS : Sir, I wish to ask what further Papers will be presented to the House relative to the Danish Question. I understand that a statement has been made in the Swedish Parliament to the effect, that the Papers hitherto presented to the English Parliament did not fully represent the whole state of the case as regards the action taken by Sweden. I
 189
 LORD ROBERT CECIL : The hon. Member who has just resumed his seat accused this side of the House of a number of unworthy motives. Among others, he has charged us with showing excited feelings, directed apparently by motives which we will not avow in supporting the Motion of the hon. Baronet. I will venture to say, for hon. Members on this side of the House, that there would have been no excitement, no vehement prosecution of the charge, if it had not been for the speech of the noble Lord at the head of the Government, who tried by topics totally irrelevant, and by the repetition of the merest claptrap, to draw away the attention of the House of Commons from the real gravity of the charge brought against his Colleague the hon. Member for Halifax. We have travelled over a great variety of subjects, we have been brought back to the Conspiracy Bill, we have had allusions to the French Treaty—there have been a great number of insinuations of all kinds, but very little from the opposite side has been said with respect to the actual Motion before the House. The point is this:—If the documents read this evening by the hon. Baronet are true, and if the documents quoted by my hon. Friend the Member for the King's County the other night are true, Mazzini is, in intention, a murderer. These publications were before the world, and the hon. Member for Halifax trusted Mazzini as few would trust another. He allowed him, knowing he was an agent for sowing discord in every country—knowing he was the prime instrument of every revolution that was being organized in every nation in Europe—he allowed him to make his house an instrument for the prosecution of his schemes. He has a right to any sympathies he may think fit to indulge in, but it was his duty, when trusting M. Mazzini to such an extent, to make him-
 278
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU : I wish, Sir, to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government, Whether any arrangement has been come to with the other leading European Governments in respect to the proposed Conference on the Danish Question; and, if so, when the Conference is likely to meet? Perhaps the noble Lord will also state, supposing a Conference has been arranged, on what basis the parties will negotiate—whether it will be the  uti possidetis
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether it is the practice of the Lords of the Treasury to direct in any case that issues be made as final payments, "without account," to any person; whether, in such a case, the Audit Officers would be satisfied with that person's receipt for the total issue, or whether they would have the power to require to see Vouchers for the items of the expenditure; and whether the Lords of the Treasury themselves examined the Vouchers; and whether the Audit Office is bound to submit to the declaration of the Treasury as to the proper appropriation of the money?
 MR. AYRTON  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he had protested last year against the system of taking Votes on account before the Estimates were in the hands of hon. Members, and he wished to repeat that protest. The practice was irregular and unconstitutional.
 MR. LAYARD : The utmost I can do will be to present the Papers referred to by the noble Lord to-night in "dummy." They shall be printed without delay, and distributed as soon as possible after the adjournment of the House for the recess.
 MR. DISRAELI : I do not wish, Sir, to give any opinion on the propriety or impropriety of the suggestion of the hon. Baronet, but I do wish to vindicate the privileges of the individual whose duty it is to lead the business of this House; and I must say that I do not understand how the noble Lord on a Government night has not the power of arranging the order of business. I should like to understand from the noble Lord, whether he has abdicated and given up that privilege which hitherto the leader of this House has been supposed to possess of arranging on Government nights the order of business.
 MR. DISRAELI : I merely desire to say, in my own justification for rising, that while I admit that the noble Lord may be the best judge as to what is the best course for proceeding with the business of the House, yet I understood him in his explanation to state that he had no power of arranging the order of business on a Government night.
 MR. DISRAELI : My own opinion is, that it is much to be regretted that the early period at which Easter falls this year, and what I think is the very bad custom which we have fallen into of late years of having very long holydays at Easter, render it necessary that Parliament should adjourn at the present moment. It is highly expedient that a discussion should take place upon the recent negotiations conducted by Her Majesty's Government; but what we have to decide to-night is, whether it is more convenient that a discussion should take place with ample information or with scanty information. Now, I do not myself think that on the last night of our meeting — that is, tomorrow—we could really do full justice to the subject. It must be, comparatively speaking, a brief debate. Many hon. Gentlemen who are anxious to address the House would not have an opportunity of speaking, and probably it would end without an expression of opinion on the part of the House of any decided character upon any definite point. What would happen then? We should have to recommence our discussions after the recess on a greater scale; and if that be the case, is it not better that we should not to-morrow begin an imperfect debate, but should at the earliest convenient opportunity commence the discussion with the advantage of that information for which I myself have asked before, and which it is desirable should be in the hands of hon. Members? The negotiations, though spread over a considerable period, are all connected together, and it is of great importance that we should have a clear conception of the motives and views with which Her Majesty's Government have favoured this plan
 289
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I confess I am disappointed at the tone which has been adopted by the noble Lord. I think the noble Lord to-night had an opportunity—a golden opportunity—of extricating the House from a painful position, and to place it in relation to an ally of this country in one which would have become him, and in which he might have done justice not only to his colleagues but to the character of the House in which he has sat so long, and in which he must take a deep interest. The noble Lord, instead of taking the line which my right hon. Friend (Sir John Pakington), animated by the most proper spirit, indicated as one he believed the House expected the noble Lord to follow, unfortunately seems to have taken refuge in that vein to which he is too accustomed to resort. He said they
 271 272 273
 MR. DISRAELI : There is not the slightest foundation for that statement. I give it the most unequivocal contradiction.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, in reply, that he had received no such proposal from Sir Charles Trevelyan, and had no intention of taking any steps to carry into effect a proposition of which he had not previously heard.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  replied, that Medical Officers in India were paid upon a totally different scale from Medical Officers in this country. The whole subject had been under the consideration of himself and Council, and not long ago he stated that they were prepared with a general plan which would put things, he hoped, on a more satisfactory footing. Some further steps, however, required to be taken before that plan could be carried out.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he must repeat that the financial accounts, which formed the basis of the statement, were by Act of Parliament laid on the table by the 14th of May. They had then to be printed, and he apprehended that hon. Members would not wish him to make a statement on papers which they had not had time to read.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, the accounts only reach here in April. They were very voluminous, and took a certain time to print and prepare. It was also necessary that after they were printed the House should have a certain time to consider them. So far as he was concerned he should be glad to make the statement at as early a period after the 14th of May as possible. The state of the public business might, however, prevent him from proceeding with the matter as early as he desired.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he could only repeat that personally he should be ready to do so, but that it would depend on the business of the House whether it would be in his power.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, in reply, that when the hon. and gallant Gentleman last asked him the question, he (Sir Charles Wood) said, that the Indian Government hesitated about taking what might be the most effectual measure—namely, the cancelling the promotions in the staff corps which had been given. After consultation, with some of the best military authorities, it was considered that such course would be a great hardship. Any other measure required the fullest consideration, because it would affect not only the Officers of the Indian Army, but also the Officers of the Line serving in India. He hoped early after Easter, however, to be able to lay ou the table of the House the Despatch which would contain the details of the measure which the Government proposed.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  replied that it was his intention to present the Indian Budget as early as he could after the receipt of the necessary information from India. Of course it was the object of the House to have the most complete information on the subject. The Budget statement in India was made in the month of April, and the Parliamentary Papers were laid on the table by the 14th of May; so that, time being allowed for Members to read them, the end of May, or the early part of June, was the earliest period when the Indian Budget could be brought forward in that House. The financial year in India very nearly corresponded with the English financial year; and he could not see that it would be worth while to alter the whole arrangements in India in order to make in that House the financial statement in reference to India at an earlier period than usual. Such a course would, besides, very much interfere with the business of that House at a time when its attention was required for the affairs of this country.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE,  in reply, said, the question was one of considerable importance, and he would endeavour to give the House full information concerning it, although the Report of the Governor of New South Wales on the new tariff had not yet been received. The Government of that Colony had found themselves obliged, for purposes of revenue, to impose a considerable addition on its taxation in order to make up a deficit which would amount to about £900,000, at the end of the next year, on an ordinary revenue of £1,500,000. That deficit had been mainly produced by over-expenditure on the part of the Central Government on public works in the Colony, which now cost about £700,000 a year. It was the opinion of the soundest colonial politicians that that expenditure on public works ought to be transferred to the municipal and local taxation of the Colony. The Ministry had, however, to supply the actual deficit, and with that object they proposed an  ad valorem 181
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he did not know what the noble Lord meant by accusing him of an attack on the Colonial Government. He had said nothing that could be construed into an attack either on the Government or Parliament. He had merely endeavoured to give what information he could to Gentlemen who were naturally interested in the question. If he had had to announce to the House that the Parliament of New South Wales had deliberately imposed protective duties on the import of British manufactures, it would have been with sincere regret. He had stated, however, that the Colonial Ministry had prepared the tariff for the purposes of revenue, but that words
 182
 COLONEL GREVILLE  said, he rose to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If he has received the Resolutions passed by the Grand Juries of the different counties affected by the changes proposed in the District Lunatic Asylums; and, if so, Whether it is the intention of the Government to persevere in the contemplated changes?
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, that he felt himself unable to give a silent vote on that occasion, though personally he had every reason to be silent; for he was not only a director of an Assurance Company himself, but he probably represented more directors and managers of Assurance Societies than any other Member of the House. But so convinced was he of the wisdom and policy of the measure, that he felt it to be his duty to do the little he could in answering the objections to it which had been raised. It was universally admitted that the bearings of the question had been scarcely exaggerated—that it was a measure of the greatest consequence and importance; and no one could suppose that the great anxiety that was felt and the strong opposition which was manifested in certain quarters to the Bill was entirely owing to the efforts of those who fancied it would deal a blow at their own private interests. The Bill, no doubt, had some strong and weighty objections to it, and they must, be fairly met; but he thought that they might be fairly disposed of, and that the Bill would be one which was well worthy of the character of the right hon. Gentleman and of the House, and leave a mark upon the history of the Session. Although the Bill was laid on the table at the commencement of the Session, it was not till the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer was made that
 243 244 245 246 doctrinaire 247 Cries of
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether he will lay upon the table of the House the opinion of the Law Officers of the Crown upon the subject of the  Tuscaloosa 184
 MR. HODGKINSON  said, that he failed to discover in the observations of the hon. Member for Liverpool and the hon. Baronet the Member for Hertford any reason why the Bill should be referred to a Select Committee. They had both adduced reasons why a Select Committee should be appointed to consider the management of Friendly Societies and Life Assurance Companies, but none why the Bill should be referred to such a Committee. It was quite immaterial to the consideration of the measure whether the Royal Liver or any other Friendly Societies were solvent or insolvent, or whether their affairs were well or ill-managed. It was impossible to have read the recent Reports of the Registrar of Friendly Societies without being aware that many of these societies were in a very unsound state. But those which were unsound were generally confined to certain districts. He was happy to be able to bear testimony to the general management of most of the Friendly So-
 227 228 229 230 s d "When dear Papa was ta'en to Heaven, And Ma was left to strive for seven, With scarce enough for burial fees, (So lingering was poor Papa's disease), Tho' full of grief, we'd no despair, Relations spoke so very fair." "They took it to the office, and wasn't it funny, When they got there they received the money?" 231
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, he wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman intended to bring forward the Indian Budget in the beginning of June?
 COLONEL EDWARDS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, with reference to the statements made by him on the subject of the Memorial of Sub-Inspectors of Factories, and the recent increase of their salaries sanctioned by the Treasury, Whether it was intended to convey to the House that the Sub-Inspectors' salaries had been raised to £700 per annum after certain years of service; and, if not, whether he would state the exact nature and extent of the change sanctioned by the Treasury?
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he did not understand the right hon. Gentleman's answer. He begged to ask him whether he would undertake to bring forward his
 180
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he wished to know, when the Return he had moved for last Session, showing the duration of the leases of Crown property between the Houses of Parliament and Trafalgar Square, would be ready?
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Walpole, If he could, on the part of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, lay upon the table of the House any Reports of Mr. Gilbert Scott or other architects upon Salisbury Cathedral, upon which the Ecclesiastical Commissioners made a Grant of £10,000 for the repair of the Cathedral? He also wished to know, Whether the right hon. Gentleman could, on the part of the Commissioners, lay on the table a Return moved for last year by the hon. Member for Surrey, with respect to Grants sanctioned by the Ecclesiastical Commissioners for the purpose of other Cathedrals?
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN : I beg pardon; but do I understand the right hon. Gentleman to say that the second name he mentioned had anything to do with the trial?
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN : I rise, Sir, to order. I made no such statement.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN : My words were not reported in the same way as the words of the right hon. Gentleman were
 194
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN : What I said was that no action was brought against the manager charging him with interpolating words in a deed.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN : I rise to order. I never made any such statement.
 195
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN : Surely the opinion of counsel ought not to be taken against the character of one of the parties?
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN : From the Vice Chancellor.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN : Sir, the right hon. Gentleman seems much astonished to find that he cannot so much rely upon the report of the words used by me in this House as upon the elaborate report of his own speech in reference to this matter. There is this material difference between our positions. The right hon Gentleman addresses this House in a twofold capacity —it is a tribunal in which he is not only listened to but his words are stereotyped on the public mind. The words of the right hon. Gentleman are stereotyped in the minds of the people of this country. But of course, with an humble individual like myself, that advantage is not enjoyed, and the defence I make is so dwarfed and briefed, that when read in the public prints, it links so horribly as to become merely a string of detached quotations. The right hon. Gentleman has used the name of Sheridan so frequently that it would not be surprising if hon. Members were led to believe that I was the person to whom he referred in connection with all these pro-
 199 200 Post Magazine 201 "In March, 1861, an order was made to wind up the society, and the official manager included Orpen's name in the list of contributories. Orpen insisted that he had transferred his shares, but on producing the instrument of transfer two inter lineations appeared in it that the transfer was to Sheridan, 'on behalf of the Society,' and these Orpen, by an affidavit, stated were not in the instrument at the time of his execution, and Mr. Sheridan and Mr. Knight, a clerk, were examined  vivâ voce 202 Vict Vict Vict Vict Vict
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN : I will quote the right hon. Gentleman's words—
 "I mean the British Provident. It was founded in 1851, and carried on business for eleven years, and only for three of those years did it register its accounts as required by law. These were the years from 1853 to 1856." 203 204 "Of course it was necessary that the society should be brought to book, and called on to make provision from the resources of the shareholders for the demands of the policy holders. The society was in Chancery in 1862. An action was brought against the manager of the society for interpolating words in a deed in order to alter its character." "British Nation Life Assurance Association, Chief Offices, 316, Regent Street, W., London, 16th of March, 1864. "Re British Provident. "Dear Sir,—The amounts paid by this Company for the policy business and goodwill of the British Provident were something between £7,000 and £8,000, the whole of which was paid to the credit of the shareholders of the British Provident Company, and no part of which was paid to the manager or officers of the Company, or in any way, directly or indirectly, paid to their use or benefit. "I am, dear Sir, yours truly, "JOHN MADDEN, Cashier and Accountant. "H. B. Sheridan, Esq., M. P." 205 206 207 208 s d s d 209 Law and Practice of Parliament 210
 MR. STANSFELD : Sir, it is not my intention to say one word in reply to the strictures of the hon. Baronet upon the character of Signer Mazzini. I have already fulfilled that which I believe to be a duty in bearing my testimony to the character of a man whom I have known for many years. As far as I am concerned, I do not think it fitting that that discussion should be continued, and as far as I am concerned it is now at an end. I will now address myself to the Motion of the hon. Baronet so far as it concerns myself and my character. The very terms of that Motion appear to me to justify the course which I pursued when this question was first introduced to the notice of the House. The hon. Baronet taking up this statement of the Procureur Général, moves that "that statement, implicating a Member of this House and a Member of Her Majesty's Government, in a plot for the assassination of the Emperor of the French, deserves the serious consideration of the House." Now, Sir, right or wrong, I put the same construction upon the statement of the Procureur Général which has been put upon it by the hon. Baronet. I hold in my hand a copy of  The Times 260 "I searched in the  London Commercial Almanack Post Office Directory 261 Cries of and Cries of and 262 Cries of 263
 MR. STANSFELD : What I said was this—that M. Mazzini had letters addressed to him under the name of Fiore, and I said that Flower was the translation of that name; but I added that to my knowledge no letters had been received at my house in that name.
 MR. BRIGHT : Doubtless, then, those who quoted writings said to be the right hon. Gentleman's were in error. I accept the right hon. Gentleman's statement freely, but I was not about to blame him. It is that kind of writing that comes often in youth from great enthusiasm and from an acquaintance with what at school we are taught to regard as the heroic deeds of ancient days. I did not rise for the purpose of saying a single syllable in defence of Mazzini. The observations I have made in regard to him are for this purpose—to explain, and if it be necessary, in some degree to justify the friendship that has existed between the hon. Member for Halifax and Mazzini, and many other eminent foreigners, for many years past. But, Sir, there is not a man in this House who believes now that the hon. Gentleman on any occasion has ever had the slightest intimation that any plot of this nature was being concocted, or about to be carried into effect. I undertake to say that if Mazzini
 276 277
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, I wish I could persuade myself that the excitement manifested by hon. Gentlemen opposite to-night had so good a foundation as might be built upon a strong anxiety to preserve friendly relations with France, and to maintain the honour and dignity of this House. But I think I discern in the temper which they have manifested very different motives, which make me believe that they are not in a condition to take a very impartial and just view of this case. What is that which we are now called upon to consider? I do not say that the circumstances which have arisen are not such as to excite some surprise and some dissatisfaction. But let us in considering them not be unjust or ungenerous to a Member of this House. We all sit here by equal right, I confess—and
 274 275
 MR. SPEAKER : The right hon. Gentleman is at liberty to make any observation, but it must be confined to explanation, and not be a reply.
 MR. SPEAKER : That will not be the proper course for the hon. Member to take. If the hon. Member could claim the ground of Privilege, that would give his Question precedence without postponing the Orders of the Day. It is for the House to say whether this is a question of Privilege of that nature which should take precedence over all the other business. The hon. Member did me the favour of speaking to me in private on this point. A matter of Privilege which claims this precedence should be some subject which has recently arisen, and which clearly involves the privileges of this House and calls for its immediate interposition. I stated to the hon. Baronet that as this subject has already been twice under the notice of the House—as questions have been asked twice in this House upon it—it did not appear to me to come under the character of something which had recently arisen, and required the immediate interposition of the House without notice. I therefore told the hon. Gentleman that in my opinion the course which he proposed to himself of raising any question which he might deem fitting upon it on going into Committee of Supply was the right course for him to follow. It is for the House to decide whether it thinks, under the circumstances, that is the proper course to be pursued. The House has the power of directing the course which it may think right in this case.
 MR. ROEBUCK : I rise to order. If the right hon. Gentleman is allowed to address the House a second time, I hope the House will accord the same privilege to the hon. Member for Dudley.
 MR. SMOLLETT  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether it be true that Sir Charles Trevelyan has recently proposed, that all parties hereafter appointed to the Covenanted Civil Service of India, under the system of competitive examination, shall be required to spend one or more years at an English University, there to acquire the habits and demeanour suitable for Gentlemen who may be called upon to fill the highest positions under the Crown in Her Majesty's Indian Possessions; and, if so, he wished to ask if steps are being taken to carry into early operation Sir Charles Trevelyan's proposition?
 MR. P. A. TAYLOR  said, he thought the House would scarcely be likely to receive any increase of dignity from the fact of its becoming the sounding board for the scandalous tittle-tattle of the police courts of Paris. For his own part, he had no hesitation in stating that he had, for many years, been the intimate friend of Signer Mazzini. He stood, therefore, in some respects, in the same relation to that gentleman as his hon. Friend the Member for Halifax, and wished to explain to any further extent which might be necessary, in order that the House might thoroughly understand the matter, the question of the way in which letters to M. Mazzini, while in this country, happened to be addressed. It would be easily comprehended by all those who were acquainted with the relations which subsisted between the Post Office and the Governments of Europe, that any one engaged, as M. Mazzini had been, in politics and political conspiracy against tyranny, might as well have any letters posted to him from Italy burnt as expect that they would be delivered to him in London, if addressed in his own name. He, therefore, was ready to acknowledge that, in common with other friends of Signer Mazzini, he had for years past placed his address at that gentleman's disposal. Hon. Members would, however, he had no doubt, have the candour at once to perceive and to admit that that circumstance not only did not imply the slightest possibility of conspiracy for assassination on the part of those who thus granted the privilege which he mentioned, but not
 267
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Of course, I am always anxious to forward the in-
 287
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he believed a Motion was to be brought forward in another place to-morrow on the subject. However, as he had put himself into the hands of the House, he would bow to their decision.
 MR. GREGSON  said, he should support the Bill as he believed it to be essential for the security of the working classes. At present they did not know where to go if they wished to insure their lives—did not know which of the small offices were sound and which unsound. The Bill would supply that want, and allowing the premiums to be paid by small instalments it would give a great incentive to Life Assurance. He agreed with the hon. Baronet who had just spoken, that the position of existing societies would be much improved if compelled to publish their accounts. He declined to follow the hon. Baronet (Sir Francis Goldsmid) into the question of the clergyman's view of sick pay, or into the hypothesis of the pigeons, because there was no necessary connection between Life Assurance and sick clubs. When Life Assurance Societies were first established, some seventy or eighty years ago, the principle of them was so little understood that the same premium was taken for all ages. But the principle was now understood, and that class of business could be conducted with perfect safety. As to the examinations, he did not attach much importance to them. He had often found in his experience of Life Assurance that the most robust persons died the soonest, simply because they thought they could take liberties with their constitutions, whereas persons whose health was less robust took more care of themselves and lived the longer. If, therefore, a great number of lives were insured, and the date of birth, the occupation, and the habits of the insurers were ascertained, he
 237
 MR. WALPOLE  replied, that it was not correct for the hon. Member to say that the Commissioners made a grant, What they did was to sanction a grant, When a commutation of estates took place, then the Chapter laid a statement before the Commissioners, stating the conditions on which the commutation was proposed. The Commissioners then had to consider whether they could take the estate with propriety on those conditions. The document, giving the approbation of the Commissioners for the commutation of the estates of the Salisbury Cathedral Chapter, contained an extract from the Report of Mr. Gilbert Scott, relative to the amount of money required for the repair of the cathedral and spire, and stated that sum to be about £10,000. The Commissioners, in commuting the estates, sanctioned the grant of that sum of £10,000 as part of the conditions on which the estates were to be conferred on them. The Return referred to by the hon. Member was made last year; but, for some reasons unknown to him, the hon. Member for Surrey never moved that it should be printed. It ought to be in the library of the House, and he believed it would give all the information required; if not, he should be ready to concur in any Motion by which that information could be more fully supplied.
 MR. T. MILLER  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether it is his intention to proceed with the Improvements adjacent to the Victoria Tower, as recommended by the Royal Commission of last year, principally on the ground of the danger to which the Houses of Parliament are at present exposed from fire and other causes?
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, I think, Sir, that the main object of this Bill appeals to the feelings of all men, and that if we were only to listen to our feelings we should at once declare ourselves in favour of the measure. But if we listen for a moment to our judgment, and consider the means by which it proposes to carry its object out, I am afraid we cannot assent to the Bill. If I have rightly collected the intentions of the hon. Gentlemen who have addressed this House in favour of the proposition, I believe I have expressed what was in the mind of every one of them. The object of the Bill commends itself to the benevolence and kindness of every gentleman, but I doubt whether the means which are proposed to effect that object are such as we can approve. I certainly listened with attention to the eloquent statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and so far as my humble tribute of admiration goes I willingly tender it to him. But however great my admiration, of the eloquence of the right hon.
 238 239 240 241 242
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, that it would be for the convenience of the House, and would save time, to adopt the course proposed. The proposition now made by the right hon. Gentleman was a very fair one, and he trusted that the House would agree to it.
 MR. HORSFALL : Looking, however, at the important interests affected by the Bill, and the large amounts which had been invested in Friendly Societies by the humbler classes of the country, he would urge upon the House that the greatest caution ought to be observed in dealing with the subject. The pleasure with which he had listened to the Chancellor of the Exchequer's eloquent speech the
 220 "Mr. Tidd Pratt, the Registrar of Friendly Societies, has rendered many a good service to the working classes of England, but none more likely to accomplish greater ends than that which he has just achieved with regard to the legal expenses which a Friendly Society may incur." 221 "There is a rule in the regulations of the Royal Liver which authorizes the Committee of Management to grant to the widow or relations of any member dying out of benefit, in cases of want of employment, sickness, or anything else whereby he was necessarily rendered unable to pay, any sum not exceeding £5. The discretion is given to the committee; but," he added, "it is not for me to say how much has been distributed in that way." 222 d s 223 "I have examined the burial branch benefit tables, and also the endowment and sick branch tables of the Royal Liver Friendly Society, and on the perusal of the rules of the said society, and ascertaining therefrom the restricted liability of the society under such rules, on information furnished me by a Committee of the said society appointed for such purpose, together with the statistics produced to me by such Committee, and in comparison of their rates of charges with the usual assurance rates, and taking into account the nature of their insurance and the class assured, and the modes of paying the premiums for securing benefits from the funds of the said society; and further taking into consideration the results of the previous and present working of the said society under such tables, so far as can be judged of by their balance-sheets for the last two years produced to me, and the continued progressive improvement of the said society in a pecuniary point of view, and also allowing a rate of working expenditure not exceeding 40 per cent per annum, I hereby certify, that I consider the said burial branch, endowment, and sick branch tables of the said Royal Liver Friendly Society perfectly safe, and calculated at rates which may be beneficially retained by the members of the said society. The Times
 MR. HORSFALL  said, he rose to second the Motion. He could not quite concur with the hon. Baronet who had just sat down in believing that there had been any intention to mislead the House on the introduction of the Bill.
 MR. HORSFALL : It was not so reported in any paper, and they could scarcely all be wrong.
 MR. HORSFALL  said, the right hon. Gentleman must have quoted then the title of one Company, and the balance-sheet of another. Of course, when the subscribers to the Liverpool United Legal Friendly Burial Society read the Chancellor's statement, they went to the Committee and said, "You must be putting forth a false balance-sheet, as the Chancellor of the Exchequer says that your business is £10,000 a year, and after twenty-one years your accumulations are only £3,900." The Committee were naturally very indignant, and they had written to him (Mr. Horsfall) with a statement of their accounts, from which it appeared that, instead of the income of the society being £10,130, and its accumulated capital only £3,900 as stated by the right hon. Gentleman, its income was £12,725 and its accumulated capital £14,158. He was very glad that the right hon. Gentleman had withdrawn his accusation against this society, and he had no doubt that that withdrawal would be perfectly satisfactory to its members. The hon. Member for Dudley had referred to a society in Liverpool called the Liverpool Protective Burial Society, of which Robertson Gladstone, Esq., was the treasurer. Now, he (Mr. Horsfall) would not have alluded to that at all if it had not been for the difference between the statement put forward by that society and the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The right hon. Gentleman calculated the working expenses of that society at something like 48 per cent. The society made it—[The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER: I never mentioned it.] He was perfectly well aware of that, but the hon. Member for Dudley had mentioned it; and upon the mode of calculation adopted by the right hon. Gentleman, the expenses of the management of that society would amount to from 45 to 48 per cent of the receipts, but according to the calculations of the managers of the society themselves, they were only about 10 per cent. It would be for the right hon. Gentleman to explain how he made the amount between 40 and 50 per cent. Now that it was proposed that the business of all these societies should be taken under the patronage of the Government, it would be well to know a little of the results of Government management. He had in his hand a book published by an hon. Member
 225 "When I read the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer—as I did over and over again—in support of his Annuities Bill, I was perfectly astounded. No one can admire more than I do the learning, the eloquence, the financial ability, and political integrity of the hon. Gentleman; but I did not think that by such a Bill he was capable of offending the feelings of self-help, self-respect, and self-reliance of, I may say, the entire working population of England; that he would despise and ridicule the mighty work which, almost unaided by legislative protection, they alone I have done to provide against the afflictions of sickness and death; that he could mistake or misrepresent important facts with respect to that work, the Friendly Societies of England; that he would sneer at or undervalue the good they have done, as it were, by stealth; and that, all of a sudden, he would introduce a Bill, not to reform these institutions, not to give protection to the members of them, and perpetuate them as a prominent feature of our social system and the loftiest and holiest objects of finance—in my mind an easy work for the Legislature—but that he should ask the representatives of the working
 226
 MR. SALT  said, that having taken a deep interest in the objects of Friendly Societies, he differed from many hon. Members on that side of the House in regarding the Bill as a small matter. He believed the principle of that and all Bills of a similar character was simply to declare that there were occasions when it was necessary for the Legislature to interfere for the protection of certain classes of the community, who either from poverty or want of education, or the peculiarity of their position, were unable fully and adequately to help themselves. But the protection which the State afforded in cases of that description was necessarily limited by another principle of equal importance—namely, that the Government ought never to interfere with the business and the commercial transactions of private companies, unless such an interference were absolutely necessary and for the benefit of the community at large. He believed that principle applied to the Bill before the House. The first clause of the present Bill related to what were called Deferred Annuities, which were better understood by the term of "old age pay." The principle of giving old age pay under the guarantee of the Government was no new one, and the clause simply extended an already existing power by permitting Deferred Annuities to be paid for by periodical contributions instead of, as at present, in one lump sum. He could not conceive a greater boon that could be offered to the poor labouring man than a measure of the kind. There were certain things which the poor man required. The provision usually made for him was usually for old
 232 233
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, that he could not vote for sending the Bill to a Committee, because he objected to the principle of it. There was no evidence to satisfy him that the business was such as could be safely undertaken by the Government; and he did not wish to see the Post Office have another heavy business annexed to it.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, with reference to his proposed insurance of lives in connection with the
 178
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that in the statement he had made last week he had said it was probable that there would be felt much interest, and even jealousy, on the subject of the rules by which the Government proposed to give effect to the provisions of the Bill now before Parliament, in case of its being adopted; and he added that he had no objection to lay those provisions in detail on the table, and to make the operation of the Act contingent on their being; so laid. Of course, it was in the power of the House to interfere, and stop the action of them, if they should think fit. The question connected with supplying tables was one of considerable importance. He had not the least doubt that it was a matter entirely practicable, but at the same time it would be necessary to obtain the assistance of actuaries and professional gentlemen of the highest skill and experience, in addition to the Government Actuary; and he would not be justified in going to the expense of employing those gentlemen on the part of the public in framing tables before he knew whether it was the pleasure of the House to adopt the general principles of the Bill. At the same time, the House was entitled to know upon what rules the Government proposed to proceed. No decision had been arrived at with respect to the minimum amount proposed to be insured.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I have stated precisely the allegations which I made on Monday week. I never said anything whatever in relation to the connection of any person with the trial except Mr. John Sheridan. I come now to the contradictions. But as the hon. Member wishes me to enlarge—I was desirous rather to contract my reference to that—I ought to say that I did state that the name of the hon. Member appeared first as auditor and then as trustee of that society. The hon. Member, Sir, contradicted me as follows:—He said the society did business for eight years only, from 1852 to 1850. He said it registered its accounts in the years 1852, 1853, and 1854; he said the Act was then accidentally repealed which required the registration of accounts, and that the Registrar refused to receive them; he said, so far from being a bad concern, that—but I had better read his own words upon both these points. He said that it registered its balance-sheet for the years 1852, 1853, and 1854, but that it was then held that the Act of Parliament which compelled their registration was repealed—unintentionally repealed—and that the Registrar refused to receive the balance-sheet after that date. Then with reference to the goodness of the concern the hon. Member stated that—
 "So far from the company being compelled to go to Chancery to make provision for the policy-holders from the resources of the shareholders, and so far from their affairs being in a bad state, the fact was that when their business was transferred to another office in 1869 a bonus of £6,000 was paid to the shareholders for the business thus transferred." "No action was ever brought against Mr. John Sheridan, and that no charge was ever made by any shareholder against the manager.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I cannot tell the exact force of that distinction, but I make no difficulty about that matter, if the hon. Gentleman says the report is inaccurate.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I am quoting the words as they are reported, but of course it is quite open to the hon. Gentleman to question their accuracy, and I should make a similar claim.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Well, you shall have his opinion directly. I quote the statement of a friendly counsel. Mr. Serjeant Shee insisted on the utter improbability of two persons like Mr. Sheridan and Mr. Knight conspiring together to commit one of the grossest frauds that could be imagined without the least apparent motive; for in the case of Mr. Knight there was an instance of an attesting witness to a deed afterwards lending himself to interline it, when many a man had been executed for
 198
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I am sustaining my statement by the evidence of public documents, which have been read by 100,000 persons in this country, and are matters of perfect public notoriety. Besides, from whom am I to know the real issue if not from the counsel in the cause?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : It certainly is rather a misfortune that the figures of the hon. Member were misapprehended by those who reported them. I pass that by. But he does not contradict my statement, which is to the effect that the society registered its accounts from 1853 to 1856—that is, from March, 1853, to March, 1854, March, 1855, and March, 1856. I have said the society was completely registered in 1850. It was bound to register its accounts every year from that time, and consequently it now stands confessed that this society registered no accounts till it came to the year March, 1854. Then comes the question of the repeal of the Act. The hon. Gentleman stated, as I understood him, that the Act was repealed in 1854; but as he now explains it the Act was repealed in 1856. Sir, the Act was not repealed in 1856; but there is this colourable ground for the statement of the hon. Gentleman—that an impression prevailed that it was repealed in 1856. That impression, however, continued only for ten months, until a certain date in 1857. At that time other Assurance Societies resumed the registration of their accounts; but no further accounts were registered by the British Provident until it transferred its business in 1859. At any rate my statement is completely borne out that it registered its accounts during three years only of its existence. Even according to the statement of the hon. Gentleman, it appears that during five or six years it did business without registering its accounts. The Act requiring registration of the accounts of Joint Stock Companies was repealed in 1862. I have stated that the expenses of the society were £15,700. Its receipts were £10,600. The hon. Gentleman appears, however, to contradict me indirectly, by saving that, so far from being a bad business, a bonus of £6,000 was paid to the shareholders. That obliges me to inquire what was the position of the shareholders if a bonus of £6,000 was paid to them. That is not sufficient to show it was not a bad business, because the question is, what had the shareholders paid? Now, that is very difficult to ascertain, but I think I can ascertain enough to bear out the statement that this was a bad business; that it was taken into Chancery; and that it was necessary to make large calls on the share-
 196 s s s 197 The Times The Times
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : On the whole, the upshot of it was that this society while it existed had obeyed the law, had transacted a reputable business, and had been unfortunate, but had not been guilty. Now, Sir, I applied no epithets in my description of the doings of that society; but I frankly own that I consider that the facts which I stated to the House made out the case of a dishonest or fraudulent society. And I am not at all surprised at, and I do not at all disclaim, the interpretation, if this were the interpretation given to my statement. Sir, I will go back to the facts, and endeavour, if possible, to avoid the use of a single epithet. And first, as to the existence of the society, it was provisionally registered in the name of "The United Trades and General Life and Fire Assurance Association," in the month of September, 1849. On the 26th of September, 1850, its name was changed to "The British Provident Life and Fire Assurance Company." The hon. Member has stated that it did no business until the year 1852. I hold in my hand a tract published on behalf of the British Provident Life and Fire Assurance Company, containing the tables of the company, dated 1850, and bearing among the names of the auditors the name of the hon. Member. It assumed the name of the British Provident on the 26th of September, 1850. It was completely registered on the 14th of December of that year. In 1859 it made arrangements for transferring its business, and an order for winding up was made by the Court of Chancery, on the 8th of March, 1861. Therefore, in stating that the existence of the society reached over eleven years, I am rather within than beyond the mark. So much as to the duration of the society. The hon. Member says it registered its accounts in 1852, 1853, and 1854.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I have no objection to the adjournment of the debate, but it must be understood that if the debate is adjourned the Government will be entirely free to; take their own course.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : And there is the medical examination.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The House had an understanding at the commencement of the evening, that this debate should be brought to a conclusion in time for another matter to be discussed, and therefore I comply with that understanding by assenting to the adjournment of the debate. I wish, however, to say one word in justice to a respectable body of men. A deputation from the working men of London waited upon me this morning under the presidency of a gentleman of the most distinguished philanthropy, to assure me that those trades' unions, to which I referred on a previous occasion as involving in their system a principle of coercion towards the minority of their own body, were working themselves out of what they—or at all events those who came to me—seemed to feel to be a vicious system. I cannot refrain from taking the earliest opportunity of expressing the very great gratification which I feel at learning that such was the case. As to what fell from my right hon. Friend (Mr. Sotheron Estcourt), my right hon. Friend stated—
 248 249
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I rise before the reading of the Orders of the Day with reluctance, but without any hesitation, to refer to the statements made by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Dudley (Mr. H. B. Sheridan) on this day week. The House is naturally jealous of the character of its Members, and would very justly resent observations made by any one, and especially if made by a Minister of the Crown, which purported to relate to matters of fact that appeared to reflect upon the character of any one of its Members, and which might afterwards be found not to be fully sustained by the real state of the case. I wish, therefore, to acknowledge, in the fullest manner, to the House, that if I made any statement of facts implicating, in any degree, the character and conduct of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. H. B. Sheridan), and if I am not able to sustain that statement, I not only owe to him a full and humble apology, but I deserve, at the hands of the House, the severest censure. On that principle I propose to refer to what has taken place. The hon. Gentleman made partial explanations—very fairly stating that he had had no notice on this subject—partial explanations with regard to allegations that proceeded from me on the nights of the Monday and Tuesday of last week. As far as respects the question of notice, it is but due to him I should say that I only became acquainted with the facts of the case of the British Provident Association, in such a manner as to make me feel it to be my duty to notice them in debate, on the morning of the Monday, when the debate came on. At the same time it would be to me matter of the deepest regret if, in consequence of the want of notice, the hon. Member suffered any prejudice. However, the explanations offered by him on the Monday and Tuesday of last week did not appear to me to make it necessary for me to proceed further with a subject from which I not unnaturally shrank. But on Thursday the hon. Gentleman made a statement in which he distinctly impugned and contradicted various allegations of fact which I had submitted to the House. He concluded with the assumption—which would have been justifiable on the supposition upon which it procceded—the assumption that he had dis-
 192 "11, Carlton House Terrace. "The Chancellor of the Exchequer presents his compliments to Mr. Sheridan, and is prepared to reply to Mr. Sheridan's statement of yesterday in the House of Commons. He will, as Mr. Sheridan may prefer, either postpone his reply until Thursday, when the Bill comes on, or request the Speaker to permit him to make it on Monday, at the commencement of public business, as a matter of personal explanation."
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : This is the programme I quoted from (holding up a prospectus).
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : It was the Liverpool Victoria that I quoted.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  rose again, but was stopped by cries of "Order!"
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I am not going to reply to the statement of the hon. Member, but to answer a few questions which have been put to me; and I should have been wanting in respect to the House if I had not risen to do so. The hon. Gentleman asks why on a previous occasion I did not name other societies. I can only say, with respect to those to which the hon. Gentleman referred, that as far as I was acquainted with them —and I was very imperfectly acquainted with them—they did not appear to me to bear the character of fraudulent institutions. With respect to the case of the British Provident Society I have not disguised my reason for selecting that case. I thought it my duty not to deal simply with anonymous charges, vague and un-particularized, against societies many of which I deemed to be great disgraces to the age. I selected the British Provident Society, because I deemed it to be the case of a society which was necessary to justify the description I gave; and it seemed to me a far more manly course to choose a society with which was connected, in some manner, the name of a Member of this House than to deal with a society which had no representative here. The hon. Gentleman has asked me a third question —why I have connected his name with that of Mr. John Sheridan? What I did was simply this—I described to the House
 211
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : It appears to me that the hon. Member for Dudley has considerably widened the scope of this discussion. I do not complain of that; but if I do not follow him into matters that do not appear to me —["Order!"] I think I am justified— ["Order!"]
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : No, for three years only.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he hoped the Committee would not suppose it was asked to do anything irregular. The course of public business rendered it almost impossible to get Votes in Supply regularly passed before Easter, and thus Votes on account became indispensable.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the Civil Service Estimates embraced so many points, and were governed by so many considerations, that it was impossible to get them ready at an equally early date. The Army and Navy Estimates were governed by comparatively few considerations, and were within the control of the Departments.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I apprehend that the duty which we are now performing—whatever way it turns—is of a judicial character, and therefore at the risk of being exceedingly dull, I shall endeavour to confine myself, as far, at all events, as good intention goes when beginning a speech— which I know is not always carried out in the course of it—to a treatment of the question in that spirit. With regard to M. Mazzini, I am not in the position of the hon. Gentleman who has been acquainted with him for many years. I never saw M. Mazzini. I do not partake in his opinions with regard to Italy, and those whom I have been accustomed to look upon as authorities on Italian politics have differed vitally from M. Mazzini as regards
 279 280 ex parte 281 London Commercial Almanac Post Office Directory London Directory 282
 MR. COX  said, he had only two or three words to say. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated that the hon. Member for Halifax had denied the charge of the Procureur Général. To his (Mr. Cox's) mind, he admitted every word of it. These were the words:—
 "He, Greco, if he were in want of money, was to apply to an address in London. That address was 35, Thurloe Square, Brompton. I turned to the  London Directory
 MR. FERRAND  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, To communicate to the House the Reply he has received from the Mayor of Bradford, relating to the state of the Doe Park Reservoir; whether other store reservoirs belonging to the Bradford Waterworks have not been, and are not still, in a leaky and dangerous state when filled with water; and whether the Sheffield Reservoir, which has just burst, and the Bradford Store Reservoirs have not been constructed by the same engineer?
 MR. FERRAND  said, that to-morrow evening he should consider it is duty to make a statement, with respect to the alarming condition of the Bradford reservoirs.
 MR. W. MILLER  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, If advice has been received at the Colonial Office of the Legislative Assembly of New South Wales having followed the example of Canada in imposing a heavy Duty on British as well as Foreign manufactured goods; and, if so, if that has been done with a view of protecting their own manufacturers, or for the purpose of raising Revenue by means of indirect taxation; and if he is aware of its being the intention of other communities in Australia to follow the same course in regard to their Fiscal Laws through their respective Legislative Bodies elected on the principle of Manhood Suffrage?
 MR. MURRAY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Why the Report of the Chancery Fund Commissioners, laid upon the table of the House, has not been delivered to Members?
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID : A medical examination was the main security at present, and it now appeared to be admitted that there could be no simplification in that respect. Then it was said that a periodical Report would be laid before Parliament, showing the nature of the business transacted, and enabling the House to put a stop to operations with which it might be dissatisfied. But was this a matter over which it was possible for the House of Commons to exercise any effective control? They knew that in ordinary Insurance Offices, the business was, as a general rule, managed by the directors, and that the shareholders could not interpose except in cases of the grossest abuse. It was vain to expect that as to transactions of this character the House of Commons could do what was found impracticable by shareholders. The next consideration was whether the scheme was for the benefit of the working classes. With re-
 235 The Times 236
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, he was of opinion that the House ought not hastily to proceed with the Bill. If working men were discouraged from insuring by the loss which they might sustain through the failure of Insurance Societies, and it was suggested that the mischief might be remedied by legislation, any measure introduced for that purpose was certain of receiving favourable consideration, particularly when it was recommended by so eloquent a speech as that of the
 234
 MR. F. S. POWELL  said, he wished to ask the Attorney General, Whether it is intended to introduce a Bill for consolidating and amending the Church Building Acts and New Parishes Acts, during the present Session; and, if such be the case, whether it is proposed to introduce the measure at an early day?
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, the Mayor of Bradford acknowledged yesterday the receipt of my letter of the 15th, and in formed me that he would immediately confer with the engineer of the corporation with reference to it; and, having since come to town, he has to-day informed me, that the fears expressed by the hon. Member are much exaggerated, that some repairs are going on at the reservoir, and that, with the concurrence of the engineer, instructions have been given to draw off the water, so as to prevent the possibility of accident while the repairs are going on. He further informs me that the engineer of the Bradford corporation is Mr. Leather, of Leeds, and that he had nothing whatever to do with the construction of the Sheffield Reservoir. I have no information as to any other reservoirs belonging to the Bradford Waterworks.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that he was not aware of the reason why the circulation of the Report had been delayed, but he believed it would be delivered very shortly.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied that it was certainly not intended to convey to the House that the salaries of the Sub-Inspectors of Factories had been raised to £700 a year. What he did say was that the Estimate for the ensuing financial year would be increased by £600. The salary of these officers hitherto had been £300 a year, with the exception of the six senior Sub-Inspectors, who received £350. By the new scale, the salary would rise after a service of ten years by a progressive increase of £50 each at certain intervals to the maximum of £500 a year after thirty years' service. Travelling and personal expenses were allowed in addition to the salary.
 SIR HENRY STRACEY : Sir, I have placed a Notice on the paper to move—
 "That the statement of the Procureur Général, implicating a Member of this House of Commons and of her Majesty's Government in the plot for the assassination of our ally the Emperor of the French, deserves the serious consideration of the House."
 SIR HENRY STRACEY  said, he would move that the Orders of the Day be postponed until after his Motion.
 SIR HENRY STRACEY : I did not hear the noble Lord's answer to my Question; will he be good enough to repeat it?
 SIR HENRY STRACEY : In introducing the motion which I have placed upon the paper for to-day, I do it as an individual Member, and because I feel that the dignity of this House has been assailed in consequence of information having been withheld by her Majesty's Government upon a serious question, which affects not only the Government but also the country at large, and certainly concerns the dignity of the House. I wish the House distinctly to understand that the task I have undertaken is to me by no means an agreeable or a pleasant one, and I do it purely as a matter of duty. I am surprised, however, on looking along the front bench opposite, not to see that Member of the Administration who is chiefly concerned in this question. It is far from my disposition to take any advantage of any Member of the Government, or to take him by surprise; but is it not singular that the Government itself should not have taken care that that Member was present? I think that to
 251 252 Révue des Deux Mondes "As to the home politics of Piedmont, they are summed up in an incident merely personal to all appearance, and yet of some significance. A man mixed up in political life, a writer and a deputy, a whilom friend of M. Mazzini, and subsequently an adherent of the Monarchy of Savoy and of the existing Government, M. Antonio Gallenga, wrote some time ago a history of Piedmont. M. Gallenga does not show himself altogether favourable
 253 "Not long" says Mazzini, "before the expedition to Savoy, after the shooting down of our friends in Genoa, Alessandria, and Chambery, towards the end of 1833, there came to me one evening at the Hotel de la Navigation at Geneva, a young man whom I did not know. He brought mo a note from L. A. Melegari, now a professor and ministerial Deputy at Turin (then one of us) [some committee], who recommended his friend to me with words more than warm, as one who was bent upon doing a lofty deed, and wished to come to an understanding with me about it. The young man was Antonio Gallenga. He came from Corsica. He was affiliated to the "Giovane Italia." He told me that from the moment the proscription commenced, he had resolved to avenge the blood of his brethren, and to teach tyrants, once for all, that guilt was followed by expiation; that he felt himself called to strike down, in the person of Charles Albert, the traitor of 1821, and the butcher of his brethren; that he had brooded over the idea in the solitude of Corsica, until it had grown gigantic and too strong for him. And more besides. I raised objections, as I have always done in similar cases, discussed the matter, and put everything before him that might change his purpose. I said that I thought Charles Albert deserving of death, but that his death would not save Italy; that in order to assume the ministry of expiation one should be free from every low feeling of revenge, and from everything unworthy of that mission; that one should feel himself capable, after accomplishing the act, of folding his hands on his breast and giving himself up as a victim; that in any case he would die in the attempt; that he would die branded by men as an assassin; and so on, for a good while." 254 "He replied to all, and his eyes sparkled while he spoke,—Life was nothing to him, he would not retreat a step; the act being accomplished, he would cry  Vive l'Italia! "I gave him a thousand francs, and said he would get a passport in Ticino. While passing the St. Gothard he wrote me a few words full of enthusiasm; he had prostrated himself on the side of the Alps, and had turned towards Italy, swearing to do the deed. He got a passport in Ticino, in the name of Mariotti. Arrived in Turin, he had an interview with a member of the committee of the association, whose name I had given him. The offer was accepted. Projects were decided upon. The deed was to done in a long passage at the court, through which the King passed every Sunday when going to the Royal Chapel. Some persons who got a special ticket, were allowed there to see the King. The committee was able to procure a ticket. Gallenga went with this, without arms, to study the ground; he saw the King, and was more determined than ever—at least he said so. It was decided that the act should be accomplished on the following Sunday." "Then being afraid in those moments of organized terror to look out for a weapon in Turin, they sent a member of the committee, Sciandra, a merchant now dead, through Chambery to Geneva to ask me for arms and notify the day to me." "A poniard with a  lapis lazuli 255 The Times lapis lazuli "But the committee, learning that the Carabineers were posted two doors from that of the regicide, and knowing nothing of Angelini, concluded that the Government had been warned of the plot and were in search of Gallenga. They therefore made him leave the city, and sent him to a country house outside Turin, telling him that the attempt could not be made on that Sunday, but that if things got quiet, they would call him in for one of the Sundays following. One or two Sundays afterwards they sent for him; he was not to be found; he had gone off, and I saw him again in Switzerland.… He put his name to circulars printed in Turin, intended to magnify the Piedmontese Monarchy. He was selected by the Government for some petty embassy in Germany; later he was, and is, a deputy." The Times 256 The Times 257 258 Laughter 259 "That the statement of the Procureur Général on the trial of Greco, implicating a Member of this House and of Her Majesty's Government in the plot for the assassination of our ally the Emperor of the French, deserves the serious consideration of this House."
 SIR JOHN HAY  asked, if the House was to understand that Fife House was to be taken from the United Service Institution?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I will detain the House but a very few moments. I should be very glad if I could avoid intruding on its attention at all, for during my not very short experience in this Assembly, the present is one of the most painful occasions which I can recollect. I cannot agree with the noble Lord the Member for Hastings (Lord Harry Vane) in the opinion he has expressed, that the explanations which we have heard tonight from the hon. Member for Halifax may be regarded as satisfactory, while I do concur with the noble Lord in thinking that the language and explanation which we first heard from the hon. Gentleman were both unsatisfactory and ill judged. That being so, I cannot see how what has fallen from him this evening has very
 268
 SIR MATTHEW RIDLEY  said, he wished to ask, Why it was that the production of the whole of the Civil Service Estimates was so long delayed, the Array and Navy Estimates having been already placed in the hands of Members?
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  replied, that he had examined the Instructions issued in May, 1860, and in October, 1837, and he could discover no difference between them. If there was any difference he would be glad, on the hon. Gentleman conferring with him, to take steps to put the two sets of Instructions in accord one with the other.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  replied that no Resolutions passed by the Grand Juries had yet been received by him. When he had received them he would communicate with the hon and gallant Gentleman.
 MR. BAZLEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary for India, Why Medical Officers of Her Majesty's British and In-
 185
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  replied, that it was well known that, for very good reasons, it was not the custom to lay on the table of the House the opinions given by the Law Officers of the Crown. Those opinions were confidential, and intended for the guidance of the Government. The Government could act on them or not as they saw fit, in the exercise of their own discretion and on their own responsibility; and it was obvious for professional as well as political reasons that it was not proper to lay such papers before Parliament.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I have no power over the order of business in the House.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The hon. Baronet asked me if I would consent to his Notice having precedence of the other Notices; and I answered that I had no command over the business of the House, It is for the House itself to say, whether or not it will give precedence to the Motion of the hon. Baronet.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, Her Majesty's Government, as is well known, have obtained the consent of Austria and Prussia to a Conference, and we are waiting for an official answer from Denmark upon the same question. We have good reason to believe, however, that Denmark will consent to the Conference, though we have not yet received any official intimation to that effect. With respect to the basis mentioned by the noble Lord opposite— uti possidetis
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The Notice given was of a Motion on going into Committee of Supply, and I do not myself see any reason for disturbing that arrangement.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I would offer a suggestion, Sir, which may, perhaps, meet the views of all parties—namely, that after my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer's Bill on Government Annuities, the Penal Servitude Bill should be postponed, to give the hon. Baronet the opportunity he desires.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I have already stated that we have not yet got an official answer from the Danish Government. Of course, therefore, it is impossible to say what basis may be adopted. Until we get a formal answer from Denmark, we must remain in the same state in which we have been for the last week.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Nothing, no doubt, can in general be more painful than personal discussions in this House. I
 269 270
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The hon. Member asks me whether we expect to be able to arrange a permanent peace. Of course, our desire is to make an arrangement that should be permanent, but as
 288
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I have to make an appeal to my hon. Friend the Member for Liskeard, who has given notice that to-morrow evening he will call attention to the affairs of Denmark. The papers bringing down the history of the question to the latest period will be delivered only to-day. As I am able to tell my hon. Friend that negotiations are still pending, it is the opinion of myself and of my noble Friend at the head of the Foreign Office, that there would be considerable inconvenience to the public service if the matter were brought under discussion in the House before that question is finally decided. I would submit to my hon. Friend, therefore, whether it would not be better that he should postpone what he has to say upon the subject until the other papers are in the hands of hon. Members, and until after the recess. In making this appeal I must again repeat that in my own opinion, and in that of my noble Friend, it would be inconvenient, and, indeed, injurious to the public interests, that the discussion should take place with the imperfect knowledge which the House has of the transactions which have taken place.
 MR. PEEL , in reply, said, attention had been directed to the object of giving better accommodation in the Bankruptcy Court by means of an improved building, and in the Civil Service Estimates a Vote would be asked for in order to make provision for a commencement of the work.
 SIR HERVEY BRUCE  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether he considers the omission of the words "by night" after the words "by day," in second line of sixth paragraph of
 305
 LORD NAAS  said, he wished to know if it is the intention of the Government to issue any fresh instructions as to watching towns in Ireland?
 LORD STANLEY : I think the House is in danger of getting into great difficulty if it proceeds further in this matter. The question is not merely of form, but of substance also. There seems to be great weight in the observations of the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock
 309 ex parte ex parte
 MR. HENLEY : I should not have taken any part in these discussions, because painful they must be to every one who hears them, whatever his opinion of the particular transaction, if the statement made by the noble Viscount had not placed the matter, if possible, in a more painful and disagreeable position than it stood in before: because, if there be one thing more than another in the feeling of the country, it is to the mode and manner in which this question was treated and answered in this House—first, when the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Cox) made an inquiry of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Halifax, and, next, when the affair was made the subject of a debate arising out of an inquiry put by the hon. Baronet (Sir Lawrence Palk) to the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs. I am one of those who think that the noble Viscount, who, it appears, was then cognizant of the
 333 334
 MAJOR STUART KNOX : I wish to ask the hon. Member for Halifax, whether it is true that his name appears in the majority of 10, who voted last night; and whether it is not contrary to the practice of the House that he should have taken part in the division?
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  asked, What course the Government intended to pursue in regard to this Bill? Many hon. Members were under the impression that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had consented to adjourn the debate until that day, with a view of fixing some day after Easter for the resumption of the debate.
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  seconded the Motion.
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, he had heard with surprise the admission of the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs, that this country had handed over, at the instigation of a few individuals, a happy and contented people to a country that was in a state of bankruptcy and anarchy. He had always protested against handing over these Islands to Greece; but he had done the Foreign Office the justice of supposing that they believed that, by so doing, they were about to add to the happiness of these Islands and not to their misery. They had been under our rule for the last forty-five years, and they had enjoyed a state of contentment and civilization, which was unknown to the rest of Europe; but now it seems they had been handed over to a country which was in a state of anarchy and bankruptcy, overrun with brigands, and in so turbulent and disorderly a condition, that the foreign Ambassadors had three times threatened to leave the country. But having agreed to hand these Islands over to Greece, Her Majesty's Government ought to have acted in a straightforward and honourable manner. They had no right to enter into a treaty with a young prince, stating that those Islands were to form an integral portion of his dominions, and then emasculate them as they were about to do. If the Islands were to form part of a constitutional and independent State, as would appear from Article 3, what was meant by laying it down that an army or navy was not to be kept on the Islands? He had looked into the various treaties and protocols that bore upon the question of our Protectorate, and he had been unable to discover any authority which would entitle us to insist upon such a condition. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Layard) had said, that the noble Lord at the head of the Foreign Office, had distinctly stated in the House of Lords that the fortifications were to be destroyed. It was true he had stated that it was doubtful whether some of them should not be destroyed, because Greece had but a small army, and it would be a temptation to some foreign Power to seize upon the fortifications if they were allowed to stand. But the noble Lord had stated quite the contrary of what the hon. Gentleman had alleged. It was true there were fortifications, such as those of St. George, in Cephalonia, and fortifications in Zante and Cerigo, which might be demolished, but these were to remain untouched.
 367
 THE CHANCELLOR OP THE EXCHEQUER : That was so. The conditions were communicated to Copenhagen from the British Government in the month of July; and as early as the 10th of August
 382 plebiscite
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  moved that the Select Committee to which these Bills are
 390
 MR. H. A BRUCE  assented to the Motion, and undertook to confer with the hon. Member as to the additional names to be placed upon the Committee.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE : Sir, there are two points of order which I would respectfully submit for your consideration. I understand that the intention of the hon. Baronet the Member for Wakefield, is to submit to the House a Resolution of which he has given notice. As I read his Resolution, it seems to me to be a vote of censure on a Member of the House for words spoken in a past debate. Now, there are two rules of the House which I have always understood were strictly observed. One is, that we have no right in this House to refer to a past debate in the same Session. The other rule is still more important and absolute, and is necessary for the
 307
 LORD ELCHO : Sir, I wish to put a question to my noble Friend at the head of the Government, of which I have privately given him notice. It is a question which I think naturally follows from the very painful discussions which we have had in this House, arising out of the unfortunate friendship which exists between the hon. Member for Halifax and M. Mazzini—a friendship which is, I think, unfortunate in its consequences as regards the hon. Member for himself, for the Government of which he is a Member, and for this House. I do not wish to revive the painful discussion of last evening, nor to express any opinion upon the course which has been taken by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Halifax since the question was first bro ught before the House by the hon. Member for Pinsbury. I do not say whether it would have been better if the hon. Gentleman the Member for Halifax had at once expressed his regret for what had occurred, instead of attempting to defend a man who I consider is, in many respects, incapable of being defended. All I wish to say is this: looking calmly and dispassionately at the whole question, it appears to me that the hon. Gentleman has been guilty, to say the least, of a grave indiscretion—an indiscretion which amounts to a public scandal. The indiscretion of the hon. Gentleman is this — that he, a Member of Her Majesty's Government, allowed, and has allowed up to a very recent time, his name to be used as a cover for the secret correspondence of M. Mazzini. Now, I say, that is a grave indiscretion, amounting to a great public scandal—a scandal affecting not only the character of the hon. Gentleman, but of the Government of which he is a Member, the character of this House, and of this country—one which is calculated to cause a bad understanding and bad feeling, even if such have not already been created, between this country and a friendly foreign country. That being so, it appears to me that the division of last night, so far from placing the House in a better position, has rather put us in a worse position, because a question which was not in itself a party question, was by the issue made to depend upon it by the hon. Member made a party question. I voted with the minority last night, but I say I did not vote as a party
 323 324
 MR. DENMAN  said, he believed it to be the opinion of that side of the House, that when the hon. Member for Halifax was first questioned on this subject he would have done better if he had replied categorically, and not allowed his feelings to lead him into an eulogium on M. Mazzini. He must, however, remind the House, that when the hon. Gentleman on that occasion showed a desire to give more detailed information on the subject, he was met with cries of "No," which prevented him from continuing his explanation. These cries, in which he (Mr. Denman) joined, he interpreted as the expression of an apprehension, that if the House were to force on these explanations, it would be playing into the hands of the French police, by eliciting information for the purpose of compromising all the correspondents of Mazzini. He doubted whether it was reasonable or desirable that after such a matter as this had been discussed as it was last night, they should be again deliberating upon it, again casting imputations upon the hon. Member for
 341 342
 MR. W. E. DUNCOMBE : After hearing the statement made by the noble Lord at the head of the Government, I must express my surprise at the decision at which he has arrived. I confess I think it is unworthy the position of Her Majesty's Government that a Member of this House who has committed so grave an indiscretion as that charged against the hon. Member for Halifax should be allowed to retain his position in that Government. I think Her Majesty's Government stand in a very unenviable position in permitting a gentleman to remain a Minister of the Crown who has been for seventeen years the intimate friend of Mazzini— a man who has not the courage to carry out his diabolical schemes, but who skulks under that protection which this free country affords to political refugees and exiles, to abuse that hospitality and conspire against the crowned heads of Europe and the established Governments of Europe, to send forth his emissaries into every capital to produce anarchy, and, if possible, to
 325
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET , in reply to the first question, said, that it was not n correct statement that the armour-plate referred to was only classed A 4, It was classed A 1. With regard to the second question, several applications had been made by Chain Cable and Anchor Manufacturers to the effect alluded to by the hon. Members, and the Admiralty had referred the question to the Committee of Lloyd's. It was the desire of the Admiralty that all the principal Anchor Manufacturers should be put on the same footing. If the hon. Member would repeat his question after Easter, perhaps he would be enabled to give him a more definite answer.
 LORD HOTHAM : Before the business is finally disposed of, I am anxious to ask a question of the noble Lord at the head of the Government. It is, what business the House will be called upon to proceed with on the first meeting of Parliament after the recess whether it is the intention to go into Committee of Supply, and, if so, whether the Army Estimates will be taken?
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, the right hon. Gentleman commenced his speech by a violent attack on his hon. Friend (Mr. Seymour FitzGerald) for the indiscretion — a word of which they had heard much that night—he had shown in speaking in a debate during the whole of which he had not been present; but the right hon. Gentleman then proceeded to admit that he had not himself been present through the debate, and that therefore he was himself guilty of the very
 383 in limine 384
 LORD JOHN MANNERS : If they took away Corfu from the Ionian Islands they took away a considerable portion of the subject-matter of that debate. Having done what the right hon. Gentleman had not done—namely, listened to the greater part of that discussion, he came to the conclusion that in the cession of these Islands a very foolish thing had been done, and done, too, in the most ungracious
 385
 LORD ROBERT CECIL : If the House should refuse to go into this discussion tonight, it must follow that hereafter, when a Minister of the Crown or any other Member, having uttered words affecting the reputation of another Member, challenges the judgment of this House, that challenge must be held to be a mere idle and futile flourish. The Chancellor of the Exchequer closed the debate last night by distinctly challenging the judgment of the House. Are we now to say, by allowing the matter to end here, that the judgment so challenged shall not be given? There is another point. The reputation of a private Member of this House has been, in the opinion of many of us, cruelly dealt with. For that great wrong, if it be a wrong, there is, if you refuse to go into this matter to-night, absolutely no redress. Protected by the privileges of this House, the Chancellor of the Exchequer cannot be sued before the ordinary courts of the land for having, as it is assumed, slandered and calumniated another Member. I do not say that he has actually slandered and calumniated any man, but I do say that if he has done so he cannot be subjected to
 310
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU : I think the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn (Lord Stanley) has shown a great deal more wisdom than the noble Lord who has just spoken. If it were intended to raise a discussion upon certain words which had been uttered in this House, those words, as the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock has said, ought to have been taken down at the time by the clerk, so that there should be no doubt as to the words which had been actually used. If, on the contrary, certain allegations of fact were to be called in question, and we were to invite the Chancellor of the Exchequer to withdraw imputations if we decided that they were unfounded, then it would be necessary that at the outset we should come to a solemn judgment as to whether those imputations are true or false. Has any one Member in this House compared the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer with the reply of the hon. Member for Dudley? Has any one Member set the imputations against the answer which had been given to them? If not, then not a single Member of the House is in a position to give judgment in the matter. But, even supposing that hon. Members had compared the speeches in question, item with item, and statement with reply, then they must, moreover, take some evidence to prove whether the imputations of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, or the answers of the hon. Member for Dudley are true or false. Both the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the hon. Member for Dudley, I have no doubt, have stated and would always state what they believed to be true. Yet either the one or the other may be mistaken, and, therefore, we cannot give judgment upon their statements alone. For these reasons I entirely agree with the noble Lord the
 311
 MR. LAYARD : I do not wish to prolong this discussion, but as reference has been made to a previous conversation which took place in this House, and the nature of it has been misrepresented by the right hon. Gentleman and others, I must say a few words with respect to it. The question, then, put to me the other evening by the hon. Baronet the Member for Devonshire (Sir Lawrence Palk) had nothing whatever to do with Mazzini or with letters sent to my hon. Friend's house, and I did not answer, as I could not, whether letters had been sent or not. Next, it is said that I made use of terms with respect to Mazzini the same as those used by the hon. Member for Halifax. I distinctly and utterly deny that anything of the kind took place. What did take place was this:—The hon. Baronet got up and asked me whether, in consequence of the statement made by the public prosecutor in France, on such evidence as he thought might have justified the assertion, that a Member of the Government had been implicated in a plot to assassinate the Emperor of the French, Her Majesty's
 335
 MR. LAYARD  said, his hon. Friend the Member for Galway (Mr. Gregory) seemed to have made himself the mouthpiece of all the discontent and disaffection which existed in the East. He did not, certainly, mean to imply, that he in any way supported or countenanced the intrigues which there prevailed; there was, however, a kind of sweet simplicity about his hon. Friend which made him take for gospel almost everything which was told him; and, as he was not a man to do anything by halves, he did not hesitate to accept every kind of exaggeration as truth, and every report which happened to reach him as a fact. It was no matter of surprise
 357 358 359 360 coup de main 361 362 363
 MR. LAYARD  begged the noble Lord's pardon. What he might have said was that some of the leaders and a good part of the population of Corfu were so.
 MR. LAYARD : There was no article in the Treaty of 1815 about giving up the fortifications, either in the condition we received them or in any other condition, and the spirit of the Treaty of 1815 required that they should be destroyed. Among
 364 365 366
 MR. NEWDEGATE : I regret that the debates during the last few nights should have assumed a personal character, origina-
 339
 MR. NEWDEGATE : I think it must be perfectly apparent to common sense, that when the House is asked to act judicially, the exact substance of the indictment upon which we are invited to give a judgment should be laid before us, and after notice, unless the words to which exception is taken have just been spoken, and are quite fresh in the memory of the House. I am sure the hon. Member for Wakefield (Sir John Hay) would not wish to induce the House to enter upon an inquiry to discover what were the objectionable passages in a speech which is not before us. It seems to me that we are asked to pass an opinion upon the temper manifested by a Member of this House in debate, without having any evidence of the temper of which the hon. Baronet complains. I do not see, therefore, how the House can, in the present state of circumstances, without having any distinct issue before us, express an opinion creditable to itself.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, in reply, that the Hudson's Bay Company had always claimed and still claimed territorial as well as trading and hunting rights over the country referred to in the question of the hon. Baronet, and those claims had been twice submitted to the Law Officers of the Crown under two different Governments, and pronounced by them to be valid. Under these circumstances, and considering the length of time —200 years—during which the claims of the Hudson's Bay Company had been unquestioned, his noble Friend the Duke of Newcastle did not think it his duty, except in the ease of most extreme necessity, to question those claims. With respect to opening out the country to settlement, he must say that he did not think that the country had hitherto been closed against settlement by the fact of its being in the hands of the Hudson's Bay Company. He believed that it was its situation, and the natural difficulties of that region which separated the territory in question from Canada, together with its distance beyond the settled territory of the United
 302
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he could relieve the mind of the hon. and gallant Member with regard to security of pensions and compensations when the Protectorate should cease. The British Government had made provision in the treaty for those pensions with great care; but, with reference to meeting present payments when quarter-day should arrive, representations on the subject had been made at the Colonial Office, and the answer was that we were in communication with the Lord High Commissioner upon that point, and though at this moment of great political change the finances of the Ionian Islands were temporarily affected and diminished, yet Sir Henry Storks was using every exertion to provide for the salaries and pensions, and there was every reason to believe that they would be punctually paid. With respect to the future pensions and compensations of British subjects who
 368 couleur de rose 369 370 371 régime 372
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, it did not follow, though they might be in favour of the cession, that they were, therefore, precluded from objecting to the mode in which it had been carried out. The objection which he had taken last Session to the policy of the Government was that the House was kept in the dark with respect to it. He complained that Her Majesty's Government had thought proper, instead of consulting Parliament, to act upon the prerogative of the Crown; and that this had given rise to most of the difficulty which had arisen. If Parliament had been consulted there would have been a probability of avoiding the vacillating policy which had been pursued. Her Majesty's Government had first demanded £10,000 for the late King, and the repayment of £90,000 to this country; but the first demand had been modified so as to be nearly abandoned, and as to the £90,000 that demand was abandoned altogether. These were instances of the vacillating policy to which he had alluded.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether the Sultan has authorized the Pacha of Egypt to submit the questions at issue relative to the Suez Canal to the arbitration of the Emperor of the French; and, whether, among such questions considered to be at issue, the requirement of the supply of forced labour for the execution of the works of the Canal is presumed to be included?
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  wished to
 340
 COLONEL FRENCH : I hope it will not be forgotten that a challenge has been given to the House by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The complaint, as I understand it, is not that any particular words have been spoken, but that certain words have not been spoken. Let us hope that, under the circumstances, the right hon. Gentleman will relieve the House from the necessity of going into this debate, by withdrawing the imputations upon the hon. Member for Dudley.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether Scutch Mills came
 301
 MR. HUNT  wished to know, whether it was intended to refer the financial calculations of the Bill to a Select Committee?
 MR. H. BAILLIE : I think the view taken by the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie) is the correct one — namely, that if we are to have a discussion at all, it must be upon words recorded by the Clerk at the table, and not upon the mere tone of a speech. Holding that opinion, I shall take the sense of the House upon any Motion for postponing the Orders of the Day.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN : I rise to Order. I distinctly stated, when the right hon. Gentleman made his first speech, that —[ Cries of and
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN : Sir, I have been challenged by the right hon. Gentleman to say whether or not in the course of the debate raised by him I denied certain allegations which he made. I never heard any allegations made of the nature to which he evidently alludes; hut immediately after the speech to which this discussion refers I did rise and state that I had acted as an auditor of the company many years ago; that the position of the company was then of such a character that the business was both sound and profitable; that I knew of no transaction of the company that deserved any censure; that I ceased to hold office immediately after 1856 that I was in entire ignorance of any of the other incidents by which he characterized the company; that I was not responsible for any of the conditions which attached to its management; and that neither then nor last night could I understand how or why my name was brought forward in connection with the company.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that hon. Gentlemen opposite not having committed themselves in any way on this question last year derived one advantage perhaps from that course—namely, that they were able now that the cession had taken place and the thing was done, to take whatever side they pleased in the matter. But although last Session there had been no formal debates on that question in that House, in the other House the distinguished leader of the Conservative party had expressed definite opinions with regard to the conditions of the cession of these Islands. He was bound to say, that if anybody was to blame about those conditions to which the hon. Member for Hoi sham (Mr. Seymour FitzGerald) had just objected it was Lord Derby himself. Speaking in a debate on the 30th of June last — a debate antecedent to the signature of the treaty, and still more so to the imposition of the terms complained of by Count Sponneck, Lord Derby was, he believed, historically the first English statesman who referred to the neutralization of these Islands, as being one essential condition for the proper carrying out of the proposed cession. His hon. Friend the Member for Horsham complained of the disgust felt by the Ionians at their ceasing to have the advantages of garrisons and military expenditure; but Lord Derby had foreseen this and "wished the Ionian Islands joy of the change." The demolition of the fortifications was suggested by Lord Derby as necessary to the proper carrying out of the cession. The noble Lord said —
 "There is another point of minor importance on which I should like some information from the noble Karl. I presume that when we cede the Islands we shall not hand over the extensive works which we have constructed at Corfu at so much expense. Those works will probably be demolished, for it is obvious that the Greek army, which, I am told, consists of 8,000 men and 4,000 officers, will find it very difficult to garrison these extensive works." [3  Hansard "With regard to the fortifications, it is doubtful whether some of them should not be destroyed, because Greece maintains a very small army, and therefore large fortifications in the Ionian Islands would only be a temptation to a foreign Power to take them." [3  Hansard 387
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that no doubt the rule was that no Member could vote on a question in which he was peculiarly interested; and, also, there were occasions when it was becoming for a Member to leave the House before the division, although there was no positive charge against him. The vote of the previous evening, however, was whether or not certain matters did not require the serious consideration of the House, and it could not be said, on any interpretation of the rules of the House, that the hon. Member for Halifax ought not to have voted on that question.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member will have an opportunity of explaining.
 MR. SPEAKER : It appears to me that the view taken by the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield is the correct one. This is not a question of words liable to objection used in debate. If it had been, the words, no doubt, ought to have been taken down at the moment. The House will, however, remember that last night the time of the House was occupied for nearly two hours by a matter of personal explanation, extending far beyond the ordinary limits of such explanations; and a series of statements and facts were
 308
 MR. SPEAKER : The question of Privilege having been raised, that must be decided before the hon. and gallant Member can proceed to address the House.
 MR. SPEAKER : I think the House will be of opinion, that it would not be a convenient course to extend the area of privilege without due consideration: as regards the occurrence being a recent one, so far the hon. Member is in order. But I should say, on looking at the terms of his Motion, that what has occurred in the House does not fulfil other conditions as regards privilege. In my opinion, it does not distinctly concern the privileges of the House, or call for the present interposition of the House. At the same time, I should be sorry to give any opinion to the House which is not perfectly fair and candid; and I must admit that the challenge referred to on the part of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer does materially complicate this question. After what has been stated, if it should be the general desire of the House to pursue this discussion, I would venture to recommend that the area of privilege should not be extended; and I would suggest that it would be a more convenient course, if the House deems this a matter which it would be proper at once to entertain, if the noble Lord will consent, not to deal with it as a question of privilege, but to postpone the other Orders until after the Motion of the hon. Member has been disposed of.
 MR. LAIRD  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether it is correct that the 5½-inch rolled iron armour-plate manufactured by the Mersey Steel and Iron Company for the  Agincourt 303
 MR. ROEBUCK : I think, Sir, the object of the hon. Baronet is not to find fault with any particular expression used by the right hon. Gentleman, and therefore the words could not be taken down. That to which he wishes to draw attention is the whole tone and spirit and temper and behaviour of the right hon. Gentleman in the discussion to which he refers.
 MR. VANCE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, If any arrangements are in progress to give better accommodation for the transaction of public business in the Bankruptcy Court in Dublin?
 MR. SMOLLETT  said, he was not one of those who thought the renunciation of the protectorate of the Ionian Islands by Great Britain was a matter to be much lamented. It had existed for nearly fifty years, and had been exercised with such singular incapacity, that our withdrawal would not leave fifty persons in the Islands who were friendly to British rule. Yet  primâ facie 353 354 omni exceptions major pari passu 355 356
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) commenced the few remarks he made by saying that this was a very painful subject. Well, it is a painful subject; but, somehow or other, I recollect noticing, in the course of my Parliamentary experience, that there is nothing in which this House so much delights, nothing which will attract such a numerous attendance of Members, as a purely personal and painful subject. I think that my noble Friend the Member for Haddingtonshire (Lord Elcho), when he addressed himself with so much unction to-night to this painful subject, might have reflected that the painful subject is somewhat assuming the aspect of a painful persecution, for no two lads recently escaped for the holidays from school could have presided over the impalement of a cockchafer with greater glee than the civic dignitary the hon. Member for Southampton (Alderman Rose) and the hon. and gallant Member for Dungannon (Major Knox) have shown in the attack upon the hon. Member for
 336 337
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he rose to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether Her Majesty's Government has grounds for believing that the order of succession in Holstein and Schleswig, which was contemplated by the Treaty of London, will be consented to by the Assemblies of Estates in those Duchies?
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he wished to know, whether he was to understand that it was the noble Lord's opinion that those Duchies were not entitled to any assembly of the Estates.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : In consequence of the Treaty of 1852.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : No; it will be referred to the Select Committee as it stands.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that his right hon. Friend was under the impression that an understanding had been come to in regard to referring this Bill to a Select Committee. The Chancellor of the Exchequer was prepared to agree to a Select Committee upon the clauses of the Bill, but not a Committee to hear evidence on the whole subject. He thought that after what had passed there was an agreement to refer the Bill to a Select Committee after Easter on its clauses.
 MR. HALIBURTON : Perhaps the noble Lord will favour the House with his reasons for not accepting the hon. Gentleman's resignation—the reasons which operated with him when he declined to accept
 330 quami 331 "I will relate another instance, which became known last year. Mazzini, who is one of the persons who, they say, preach assassination, stated that a person holding a high station in the Pied-montese army came to him when a young man, and proposed to him to assassinate Charles Albert, the King of Sardinia. Mazzini told him he was hardly worthy to commit such an action; but he gave him instructions, sent him to Turin, and gave him his own dagger wherewith to commit the crime."—[3  Hansard 332
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the course he proposed to take would, he thought, be convenient and satisfactory to the House. He proposed to go into Committee  pro formâ
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The hon. Gentleman has made
 317
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I wish, as the person mainly concerned, to make only one observation, I
 306
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I really had no intention to misstate what the hon. Gentleman said. I am speaking of what he said on Thursday. I thought I was only stating what was patent and obvious to all. Perhaps, when the hon. Member is perfectly cool he will see that my remark does not in any way call
 315 316
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I rise, Sir, in the hope that in the fewest possible words I may be able to assist the House in what undoubtedly appears to be a serious dilemma. I do not feel very confident upon that subject, but I think it my duty to offer the few remarks which I have to make. They may, at any rate, help the House to a conclusion on the question whether they would proceed to the consideration of this matter in full detail —which would be the course most agreeable to myself—or whether they should take some other step in conformity with the general rules which regulate our proceedings. My hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Roscommon (Colonel French) appealed to me to relieve the House by withdrawing what he called my "imputations." I think the House will feel that no man being a Member of this House, not to say a Minister of the Crown, can, except in vague and general terms, deny what is only vaguely and generally imputed. The hon. Baronet the Member for Wakefield (Sir John Hay) is met with this difficulty—that he did not cause the words to be taken down at the time they were spoken. My sincere object is to help the hon. Baronet out of that difficulty, and, at the same time, to avoid saying what is offensive to anybody. I shall endeavour to avoid repeating anything that would give pain, but I shall also endeavour to define, as far as I can, the state of the case. Let me distinguish between what was said of a certain company or institution and what was said of the hon. Member for Dudley. I have never shrunk from avowing, I have never attempted to conceal, I thought it part of my duty to make manifest, that I described in my speech a certain company or institution, which need not now be named, as a company of a certain character. [An hon. MEMBER: Fraudulent.] My object at present is to state the case without using offensive expressions, or allowing a syllable to pass my lips calculated to give offence. I showed that the company or institution was of a certain character by a series of allegations of facts, and, with the exception of a verbal matter, I am not able to recede from any one of those allegations. I shall not now enter into any detail, but I may say that I am perfectly prepared with conclusive documentary evidence to re-establish any one of my
 312 313 res gestœ 314
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I am afraid it would not be for the convenience or advantage of the House that the debate should be carried on in the manner which has characterized it hitherto—that is to say, by hon. Gentlemen who, appearing at one portion of the evening, were not present during the other portions, who reply to speeches they have not heard, and who advance arguments which, totally out of place, they would have spared if they themselves, instead of being also out of place, had been in their seats during the speeches of the responsible officers of the Crown. I am always glad to hear the hon. Gentleman who has just spoken (Mr. S. FitzGerald), but I believe the House would have been deprived of a great portion of the immense advantage of hearing his speech, if he himself had been present when my hon. Friends the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs, and the Under Secretary for the Colonies addressed the House. I admit that I am somewhat in the same condition myself; but I am not volunteering to instruct the House — I am simply rising, on the part of the Government, to notice the observations which fell from the hon. Gentleman. At any rate, I had the advantage of hearing the excellent speech of my hon. Friend the Under Secretary for the Colonies; and I must say, so far as I can recollect the terms of that speech, I would wish to he bound by it as a manly, just, impartial, and liberal exposition of our policy with respect to the Ionian Islands, worthy of my hon. Friend, myself, and of the Department which he represents in this House. The hon. Gentleman opposite appears to think that there was a great inconsistency in the representation made by my hon. Friend. The representation was this—that the people of the Ionian Islands had reaped great benefits and advantages under British rule, and yet, notwithstanding, they were seized with a kind of itch for political union with Greece. That appears to the hon. Gentleman opposite to be a paradox and inconsistency; I contend, on the contrary, that there is no paradox or inconsistency in those statements. It is perfectly true that
 378 379 380 381
 MR. FERRAND  complained that no Members representing manufacturing districts were nominated upon the Committee, and, with a view to supply the omission, moved that the Committee consist of nineteen Members.
 MR. FERRAND  said, he rose to call attention to the dangerous state of the Doe Park and other reservoirs, belonging to the Bradford Corporation Waterworks. This was a question of great importance to a large number of people residing in his own immediate neighbourhood. He put a Question the other evening to the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the
 318 319 320 "Bradford, Yorkshire, March 16, 1864. "Sir,—I see by the paper this morning that Sir George Grey stated last night in the House of Commons, in reply to your question about the Doe Park Reservoir, that he had written to the mayor of Bradford for information on the subject of its alleged insecurity. "Without at all wishing to cast any reflection on our worthy mayor, it may be important to you to know that any statement he may make, if even affirming its safety, will not have the slightest effect in re-assuring the minds of a large portion of the public hereabouts. The present mayor has always been in the corporation the most prominent and assiduous promoter of the corporation waterworks schemes; and it is almost unnecessary that I should tell you that in every respect the public have reason to complain of the whole management of these matters. Not only have the original estimates of cost been very far exceeded, but wholly unlocked for delays in the completion of the works have taken place, and it is well known in the town and neighbourhood of Bradford that these delays have mainly arisen from the defective character of the workmanship in the various stages of construction, and especially so in the reservoirs. I am not at present a resident of Bradford, having removed from the borough about four months ago, and it might, perhaps, be said that I meddle with what does not now concern me; but as the safety of human life concerns every man, I do not hesitate to say that any reply the mayor of Bradford may send to Sir George Grey will not be deemed sufficiently reliable by thousands of the inhabitants and ratepayers of Bradford; not that the mayor would willingly state any untruth, but because he has been so often identified with waterworks mistakes." "W. Ferrand, Esq., M.P. "March 17.—The Doe Park embankment since it was made has been repuddled in seven different
 321
 MR. W. E. FORSTER : I regret that this subject has been again renewed; but it now certainly stands on a much more tangible ground than on last evening. Last evening we were asked whether we thought that the remarks of the Procureur Général deserved our serious consideration, so far as they regarded the hon. Member for Halifax. We decided that they did not. This evening my noble Friend the Member for Haddingtonshire (Lord Elcho) in ask-
 326 327 328
 MR. GREGORY  in rising, pursuant to notice, to call attention to the demolition of the fortress of Corfu and the neutralization of the Ionian Islands, said, he should despair of obtaining the attention of the very few Members now present in the House, were it not that the proceedings to which he was about to refer were attended with injustice, violence, and bad faith. It was because the nation in question was weak and unprotected that he
 344 345 "His Britannic Majesty contends that a convention with the Government of the Ionian Islands should regulate all matters in relation to the maintenance of the fortresses and as regards the keep and pay of the troops." 346 347 sine quâ non 348 349 coup de main coup de main 350 351
 MR. GREGORY : What right had you -to destroy the fortifications?
 MR. GREGORY  said, he would withdraw his Motion.
 MR. ALDERMAN ROSE : It will, I think, be heard with some surprise, not only throughout this country but on the Continent, that the Government have thought proper to endorse, if I may use the expression, the conduct of the hon. Member for Halifax. I have this afternoon seen a letter from a person of some eminence at Paris, and judging from the description which he gave, the effect of this discovery will not be laid at rest quite as soon as Ministers appear to think it will. Such a feeling has been created in France that I believe the First Minister of the Crown will have cause very much to regret that he has thought fit to adopt the conduct of his Colleague in this matter, and not to accept his resignation. For what is the state of the case? Here is a man whose business has been for years to conspire against all constituted Governments and authorities in other countries, and who has, through the instrumentality of a Minister of the Crown, been carrying on a secret correspondence which he could not have done under the auspices of a less important personage. I think, therefore, that Her Majesty's Government, in not accepting the resignation of the hon. Gentleman, do, to a very great extent, adopt the responsibility of his conduct; and when they come to know the effect of that conduct throughout France, they will very much regret that they did not accept his resignation.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether the Hudson's Bay Company had any ownership in the soil or any right, except that of taking wild animals, to the district of country lying between Lake Superior and British Columbia, comprising the only prairie and some of the most fertile land in British America; and, if the Company had no right, whether the said district should not be opened for settlement under the Crown, and thus invite the emigrants who now leave this country for the United States to settle in our own Colony?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied, that he did not understand that any opinion on the subject had been given by the Law Officers of the Crown, but the question arose some years ago, and it was held by the Inspectors that ordinary Scutch Mills did not come within the Factory Act; but that other Scutch Mills, with a particular sort of machinery attached, did come within the Act.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  thought it would have been more convenient if the hon. Gentleman had brought the facts he had just mentioned under the notice of the Government in a different manner. If the hon. Gentleman would be good enough to place upon paper the facts which he had now mentioned and communicate with him (Sir George Grey), he would consider whether they were sufficient to require that a Government Inspector should be sent down to the place in question. He did not dispute the facts stated by the hon. Gentleman, because he only now heard them for the first time, and therefore could not say that the reservoirs referred to were not in a dangerous state; but certainly no previous communication to that effect had been made to him.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he wished to know, Whether it is to be understood that no steps would be taken with regard to Holstein and Schleswig without obtaining the opinion of the inhabitants of those Duchies in some way that would be deemed legal and constitutional?
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he would beg to ask, Whether the noble Lord was not aware that by the Constitution of Denmark the Duchies of Schleswig and Holstein were placed on the same constitutional footing as the Estates of Denmark; and whether he was not aware that the consent of the Rigsraad having been asked to the new Constitution, it was not competent to ask the same assent from the Estates of Holstein and Schleswig?
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  inquired of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether it was intended to proceed that evening with the Collection of Taxes Bill?
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, that the discussion was in one sense important, and that it ought not to terminate in the issue attempted to be raised by the hon. and learned Gentleman. The hon. and learned Member and his Friends might regard this as a question of slight importance, but in no other country in Europe would such an opinion be entertained. He had talked of a miserable scrap of paper, but the scrap of paper bore the address of a Lord of the Admiralty, which was found sewn in the clothes of a person on the eve of the committal of a horrible outrage, and the matter had been referred to by the representative of the French Government in a proceeding of the greatest gravity. The hon. Member for Halifax was then asked a question upon the subject in that House, but he did not at once own all that was elicited last night. The hon. and learned Gentleman had talked of the want of evidence, as if the importance of this question depended on the amount of evidence and not upon the seriousness of the imputation. It came out by close questioning and from other sources, that the hon. Member had placed his House at the disposal of Mazzini, and had permitted a correspondence to go on under false names—names that were not always known to M. Mazzini himself, and with respect to which the hon. Gentleman had never asked any questions. It was now owned that the name upon this alleged miserable scrap of paper was one of those by which Mazzini was known in this country. [Mr. STANSFELD: A translation of a name.] If an hon. Member thought proper to have such intimate relations with a man who philosophized on the theory of the dagger, the Members of the House would not conceive themselves entitled to interfere. It was only when a Member who had accepted an office under the
 343
 SIR JOHN HAY : I think, Sir, after the very satisfactory explanation which has just fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, it would be very unfair indeed to proceed further with this matter. I had not the acquaintance of the hon. Member for Dudley, and my only object was to obtain what appeared to be necessary, in the first assembly of gentlemen in Europe, from the right hon. Gentleman, whom we all respect for his talents and eloquence. I myself felt, and others felt, that after the explanation I understood to be made by the hon. Member for Dudley there was something cruel, as it were, in the right hon. Gentleman not rising in his place and accepting it freely and frankly in the manner he has done to-day. The House, I am sure, will forgive me for the intrusion; but I feel I have done a service to it by placing this matter on a proper footing.
 SIR JOHN HAY , who had given notice of a Motion—
 "That this House sees with regret that the Chancellor of the Exchequer has not considered it his duty, after the explanation given last night, to withdraw the imputations which he has cast upon the hon. Member for Dudley"—
 SIR JOHN WALSH : Sir, it appears to me that the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down (Mr. W. E. Forster), has scarcely stated the case with perfect correctness as regards the hon. Member for Halifax. And it appears to me there is a great difference between the hon. Gentleman being a friend of Mazzini for a great many years and his having given him facilities for carrying on a clandestine correspondence by permitting him to have letters addressed in a false name to his address. It appears to me there is the widest possible distinction between the two cases. I think it is most unfortunate that any gentleman holding a conspicuous office in the Administration should have been so long connected with a person like Mazzini, who has been implicated in such grave conspiracies against all the States of Europe. At the same time, I think the hon. Member, by his admission that he permitted Mazzini to have letters addressed to him in a false name to his house, and that he was so much implicated in Mazzini's conspiracy on a former occasion as to permit his name to be printed at the foot of a kind of bank-note which Mazzini circulated, greatly aggravates his false position. Hon. Members opposite have thought it necessary to pronounce very great eulogies on Mazzini's character. I have no wish to go into that question further than to say that Mazzini has been known to be a conspirator all his life. We have had proof of it on severa occasions, and that he has encouraged as sassination on several occasions. His was the head that plotted if his was not the hand which tried to execute these abominable plots; and it does appear to me that the very circumstance that he was the head to plot, though not the hand to execute, is in itself a very grave aggravation of the charges that are made against him. With regard to the noble Lord at the head of the Government, I have always observed that one of his noblest characteristics is, that he never deserts a friend in a strait, however great it may be; and however much the noble Lord in his mind feels that he is making a personal and political sacrifice in sustaining a friend, that one of his principal characteristics is to always sustain a friend and pull a Colleague through the mire if he can. I really think
 329
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  replied, that; after the discussion which took place the other night, he would endeavour to meet as far as he could the wishes of hon. Gentlemen as expressed on that occasion.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, in reply, that the words used in the last set of instrnctions were almost a literal repetition of those used in the former one, and that there was no substantial alteration.
 MR. CAVE  said, that his hon. Friend (Mr. Seymour FitzGerald) did not object either to the neutralization of the Ionian Islands or to the demolition of the fortresses. What he objected to was, that the Resolutions in regard to those matters, which were come to at an early period, were not sooner communicated to those who were most interested in them. He (Mr. Cave) had already expressed his opinion fully on this question, and he should not have risen had it not been for the attack which had been made upon Sir Henry Storks by the hon. Member for Dumbartonshire. He should be the last to object to perfect freedom of debate, and he entirely dissented from the doctrine that a public servant should be spared because absent. The character of public servants was the property of the country which employed them, and it was the duty as well as the right of the representatives of that country to discuss it. Still, moderation was necessary. It was not right that a public man whose acts had been adopted by the Government should be spoken of as Sir Henry Storks had been in the last Session of Parliament in terms which Cicero might have employed in denouncing Verres, or Burke have applied to Warren Hastings. Perhaps, therefore, even at that late hour, the House would give him a few minutes to defend an absent man; and as he had heard some of the circumstances which had been referred to discussed upon the spot, he might, perhaps, be allowed to give his view of the matter. Before Lord Seaton's Reform, the Administration of the Ionian Islands was practically in the hands of the Lord High Commissioner. Afterwards it was thrown, or intended to be thrown, into the hands of the Ionian people, or rather of their Parliament, which, perhaps, was
 388 régime 389
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  asked, if the conditions of the demolition of the fortresses and the neutralization of the Islands were made known in the month of August?
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD : Sir, I regret very much that a question of so much importance should have been discussed to-night in so thin a House. The question is one of importance not only to this country — not only as regards our relations with foreign Powers, but of particular importance to the country of which the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has spoken, and which—fatally, I think, to its own prosperity—the noble Lord at the head of the Foreign Office had taken under his own special protection. We are now discussing this question probably for the last time, and therefore I am unwilling to allow this opportunity to pass without some observations. I am not going to discuss at all the propriety of this cession of the Ionian Islands. Upon that question I have a very, very strong opinion, and I have expressed that opinion very strongly in this House. But this has now passed—it is a matter of history, and I am not going to revive the question. But the hon. Member who spoke last (Mr. Chichester Fortescue) has referred to a portion of the history of the Ionian Islands, and he has said that the result of English dominion there has been to establish a kind of Paradise. [" No, no!"] Will the hon. Gentleman allow me to proceed? He said this—that, where there had been disorder, where there had been no regular Government, we had established a regular Government, that agriculture had flourished, that roads had been made, which had conferred the greatest benefits on the inhabitants. The hon. Gentleman contrasted this state of things with the condition of Greece. But has there been that freedom? Has there been that constitutional government developed? Has there been that agricultural prosperity? Have public improvements ' been made? The very reverse. Of all countries in Europe there is not a country where so little has been done for the prosperity of the people as in Greece. And yet the hon. Gentleman, for the glorification of the policy of his Government, has pointed out this as the result of their policy—that whereas we have made the
 373 374 375 376 377
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD : Sir, I have taken no part in this discussion. The right hon. Gentleman behind me (Mr. Henley) has said what I am sure everybody has felt—that this is a very painful subject; but when the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down says that it is a painful question, I would remind him that it is a serious question also, seeing that he has addressed a speech to the House in which he seeks to turn the ease into ridicule. In one sentence which he uttered I cordially agree—that we are not fulfilling our duties as Members of Parliament.
 338
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : What I intended was that my hon. Friend the Member for Halifax, through a common friend, placed himself and his office entirely in my hands.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I cannot but regret that my noble Friend, in asking the question which he might have put simply, has thought fit to revive the discussion of last night, which I certainly hoped had been concluded. I shall, how-over, abstain from following my noble Friend's example, and will simply answer the question which he has put. The noble Lord asks whether my hon. Friend has at any time subsequent to the introduction of the subject by the hon. Member for Finsbury, tendered the resignation of his office. My hon. Friend immediately after the question was brought forward made a communication to me through a common friend, that he placed his office entirely at the disposal of the Crown, and that at the slightest intimation from me he would formally tender his resignation of that office. My answer was I did not wish him to take that step, that I wished him not to take it—and if there is any responsibility attaching to that decision I am perfectly willing to take that responsibility upon myself.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON   moved Monday
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  was understood to say that he supposed his hon. Friend referred to the Treaty of 1852, and that that treaty was confirmed by the Powers of Europe.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that was a question of policy which he really could not undertake to answer.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The Treaty 1852 had nothing to do with the matter. Holstein and Schleswig were now occupied by Foreign Powers. The authority of the Sovereign of the Duchies had been suspended by those Foreign Powers, and it was doubted whether there was any authority competent to summon the Estates.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he did not quite understand the question. The Duchies had Estates which were liable to be summoned by a competent authority. He believed, however, there was a doubt whether there existed any competent authority at present.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON , in reply, stated that, in the first place, the Government had no certain knowledge that the Estates of those Duchies were to be assembled. He was aware that there existed a wish that they should be assembled on the part of some portion of Germany. [Mr. BERNAL OSBORNE: The whole of Germany.] But if there were any legal or competent au-
 304
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I should hope, after the explanation of my right hon. Friend, that it will be unnecessary for the hon. Gentleman opposite to make the Motion which has been suggested. I am sure the House will all concur in regretting a discussion which has given pain to the hon. Member for Dudley — pain which I am certain that my right hon. Friend must, like myself, regret should have been given, and which arose out of the statements which he deemed it his duty to make. But I should really trust, that after the statement which my right hon. Friend has just made, and the frank and handsome manner in which he has accepted the declaration of the hon. Member for Dudley, it will not be thought necessary for the House to go on with this Motion.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, in accordance with the recommendation you have just given, I beg to move that the Orders be postponed till the Motion of the hon. Baronet the Member for Wakefield has been disposed of.
 VISCODNT PALMERSTON  said, in reply, that all that the Government knew about the matter to which the hon. Member referred was that which was contained in the  Moniteur
 MR. CORRY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether, as the papers respecting the New Dock at Malta are not in the hands of hon. Members, he will postpone asking for the Vote till next week?
 MR. PEEL  said, the Motion of the hon. Member for Chippenham (Mr. Lonjr) sought to establish two propositions, first, that country places and provincial districts were not well and satisfactorily served with regard to their local correspondence; and secondly, that it was expedient to appoint a Committee to consider what improvements could be made, and in what manner they could be carried out. He thought that country places, generally speaking, had no great reason to complain of the present postal arrangements. The hon. Gentleman admitted that they had shared to the full extent with other parts of the country the advantages of a low and uniform rate of postage, and all the other improvements with regard to the registration of letters, money order offices and Post Office savings banks; and there was scarcely a place, however out of the way
 410 411 412
 MR. HENLEY  said, he should not have taken any part in that discussion but for an observation of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He told the House that the Post Office gave a revenue of a million and a half; and if that were taken away he must find some other means of raising that sum. He understood the right hon. Gentleman to say, that it would not be just to the taxpayers at large to call on them for that amount in order to give the convenience of additional postal communication to sparsely populated districts that would not pay the expenses.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he perfectly understood that the right hon. Gentleman did not say in no case; but he thought if the principle were to he applied to the packet service different results to those which existed would he produced. He apprehended that the packet service was not included in the expense of the Post Office. He did not think the right hon. Gentleman had so flourishing a figure as a million and a half after deducting the packet service, which was only for the advantage of those persons using it. He hoped the principle would not he carried too far, that districts were to he deprived of postal privileges because they were not sufficiently populated to make them remunerative to the Post Office. Not only was there the local advantage, but the advantage to the sender, and it must he remembered that a great deal of the Post Office business was the carrying of circulars from populous places, and where there were not postal facilities for delivering these circulars, private individuals in large towns were put to considerable expense to deliver them. He should be the last person to say that the
 418
 MR. T. BARING  said, he did not agree with the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley), that the packet service was merely for the benefit of those persons who sent letters by it; it was an advantage to the whole country. That service involved an outlay, whether too large or not was not then the question, which was not merely for the advantage of the individuals who sent those letters, hut for the good of the community at large. Any other view of steam communication would he narrow and one sided, seeing that the advantages extended to the whole productive industry of the country,
 MR. CORRY  said, as he had been prevented from attending in his place when the Navy Estimates were under discussion, he was anxious to make a few remarks on this occasion, and there was no part of those Estimates—not even the reduction of 4,000 men—which he had read with greater dissatisfaction than the diminution of about £200,000 in the sum proposed for the building of armour-plated ships. From the statement of his noble Friend the Secretary to the Admiralty, he concluded that it was not intended at present to exceed the number of the twenty-five now built or in progress. Of these, they were told nineteen would be available next year, and in the following year the whole number would be ready for service. He appealed to hon. Members whether, if armour-plated ships were to supersede wooden ships, that was a force adequate-to the wants of the British navy, or one with which it would be possible to carry on a great war. In the event of a war occurring in 1866, he would like to know how the noble Lord would propose to appropriate those vessels? How many of the twenty-five would he allot for the defence of the Channel; how many to the Mediterranean, where we have interests at stake not less important; how many to the Baltic; how many lo the North Sea, to the West Indies, to the coasts of China and India, and how many to the Pacific, where a large and important colony had lately sprung up? It was nonsense to talk of defending our vast interests on those stations with twenty-five ships, when it was well known that all the principal nations of Europe were acquiring largo fleets of armour-plated ships; and America, too, was largely increasing her strength in ships of that description. His noble Friend had abstained this year from speaking of what the French were doing, but the information had been furnished by France herself. In a letter from the Paris correspondent of  The Times "According to statistics recently published the French Government possesses at present,
 421 Bellerophon Bellerophon 422 The Times The Times Duncan Esk Penelope Retribution "Out of all the vessels so enumerated in the four divisions there is only one vessel—the  Esk 423
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he had observed that  The Times
 MR. CORRY  said, that the statement he had quoted was that the French now had ready or in process of completion forty-three armour-plated ships of 24,000 horse power.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, that this statement was still more startling. No hon.
 424 Alabama 425 426
 MR. CORRY  said, his hon. Friend the Member for Sunderland (Mr. Lindsay) sought to make him responsible for the statistics with regard to the French navy which he had quoted, but be had taken them from a letter of  The Times
 MR. CORRY : He says the statistics were recently published.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he was very glad to find that his hon. Friend the Member for Sunderland had been employing his time in the recess last autumn so profitably. He could have wished that he had been with his hon. Friend on the occasion of his visit to Chatham, as he had no doubt he should have come to a different conclusion from his hon. Friend as to the amount and quality of the work turned out there. His hon. Friend had not said that the  Achilles 427 Achilles Achilles Achilles 428 vice versa Northumberland
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he had found no difficulty in ascertaining at Birkenhead the amount of money expended in wages, materials, rent, insurance, plant, &c., but he had sought in vain for similar information with regard to Chatham Dockyard. He was, therefore, driven to make general charges for want of specific information. The noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty himself had resorted to general charges. Five years ago, it would be recollected, he had spoken of a mysterious sum of £5,000,000. He had been five years in office, however, without giving those data which would enable hon. Members to ascertain the relative cost of those ships constructed in private yards and those in Her Majesty's dockyards. With respect to the article of coal, the Admiralty was also to blame. In the present Estimates there was a charge of £275,000 for coal.
 437 s s 438
 MR. SOMERSET BEAUMONT  said, he begged to express his satisfaction that the coal question had been brought before the Committee, and hoped the noble Lord would tell them what he proposed to do in reference to the future supply of coal. It was only by incessant, he might almost say persecution of the Admiralty, that the Government had granted the prayer of the coalowners of the North of England. The coalowners had not obtained their requests as matters of favour, for the reports of the engineers of the Admiralty were, in all respects, favourable to them.
 MR. LINDSAY  begged to disclaim the idea of having either a grievance or an antipathy. He was merely performing his duty to his constituents by seeing that they obtained a fair return for the money they were called upon to expend.
 MR. COHRY  observed, that the item ''for engines ordered to be built," £17,000, seemed very small, and did not seem to indicate that any great effort was to be made.
 MR. LINDSAY  remarked, that different plans of fitting prevailed in the different public dockyards, and when the officers from those yards were sent out to inspect work under contract in private establishments, each carried with him the system that prevailed in the particular dockyard from which he had been sent. Much inconvenience was thereby caused to contractors when the Inspectors were changed during the progress of a contract. Could not an arrangement be made for leaving the one Inspector in charge throughout the execution of a contract, or for introducing a uniform system of fitting?
 MR. LINDSAY  wished to know when the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty intended to bring forward his plan for the increase of pay in the navy.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, a Committee had sat on the transport service, which recommended the consolidation of the several departments, and that the responsibility should be fixed. He regretted that those recommendations had not been carried out,
 MR. LINDSAY  observed, that however the matter might now stand, the last Returns which had been published on the subject clearly showed that the conveyance of troops in the Government transports cost just double that which was expended on private ships.
 MR. KINNAIRD  thought the Post Office authorities were sometimes in error, proceeding as they did upon the principle, that because the number of letters for a particular locality would not pay live expense of conveyance and delivery, therefore increased postal facilities should not be extended to that locality. At the same time, he was of opinion that the attention of the Treasury should in the first instance be drawn to the subject, and then, if that Department refused to provide remedies for the grievances complained of, recourse might be had to a Select Committee of Inquiry.
 MR. C. BERKELEY  begged to call attention to the number of ships removed from the effective list of the navy since the Return dated Feb. 1, 1863. At that date the number was 669, but at present was represented as 630, thus showing that thirty-nine vessels had been removed from the effective list; and he thought, as there had been some vessels added, the number might
 419 Victor Navy List Sappho Alligator Navy Lists Circassia Enterprise Navy List Enterprise Circassia Circassia
 MR. LIDDELL  begged to remind the House that the subject of the postal arrangements of the country was a very wide one. In 1853 he obtained a Select Committee of Inquiry, similar to the one now asked for, and they found it an Herculean task. He, therefore, ventured to
 408
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he did not blame hon. Members for drawing comparison between public yards and private establishments. It was right that those things should be inquired into, and that, indeed, was the reason for the Admiralty for the last four years endeavouring to place their accounts on such a footing as would enable them to lay before Parliament the sums expended on each ship. They were now in a position to do so, and he was prepared to challenge the hon. Member for Sunderland (Mr. Lindsay) to move for a Return for any or all of the dockyards, of the number of ships built in 1862–3 and their tonnage, the expenditure on the one side, and on the other the progress made in their construction, showing in fact the value obtained for money. The hon. Gentleman would then be able to express an opinion to the Committee, but it was not fair that he should persist in making broad statements without proofs as to the superior workmanship and administration of the private yards as compared with the public establishments. No doubt the work in the latter was more costly; but he believed that the repairs of the wooden vessels built in the public dockyards were not on so large a scale—not so expensive—as those of similar ships constructed by private traders. At all events, he was ready to repeat the offer made by the hon. Member for Halifax (Mr. Stansfeld)—who, unfortunately, was no longer his Colleague, and who was a great loss to the Admiralty— that all those matters should be carefully gone into with any mercantile man who might chose to undertake the business. Certainly, the Admiralty would be only too happy if they could improve their system by a comparison with that in vogue in private yards. The hon. Member for West Norfolk (Mr. Bentinck) had asked him a difficult question as to the future policy of the Government with regard to the construction of ships. He must protest against having to look into futurity in a matter of such magnitude. First of all, it must depend a good deal upon foreign countries, and especially upon France, because the great object of Her Majesty's Government was to maintain at all times the navy of this country in such a state of efficiency as to enable us to cope successfully
 432 433 Sappho Alligator Navy List Enterprise Circassia 434 Achilles
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  stated, in reply, that he should postpone Vote 11, in which the expense for the Malta Dock was included, until hon. Members had had a reasonable time for considering the papers on that subject, which he regretted to say, were not yet in their hands.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that the Admiralty, as he had on more than one occasion before stated, were perfectly ready to carry out the transport service in connection with the Colonial Office, but that owing to the very weighty reasons which had been urged by the Duke of Newcastle against any alteration in the present system the change had not been made. Negotiations were, he might add, now going on with a view to bringing the Indian transport service between this country and Alexandria under the control of the Admiralty.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, if the hon. Baronet would visit him at the Admiralty, he would endeavour to procure for him such information as he required.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, the matter was not yet fully matured, but due notice would be given.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET,  in reply to the hon. and gallant Member for Chatham (Sir James Elphinstone), said there was an increase over last year of £200 for contributions in aid of sailors' homes and charitable institutions in the neighbourhood of the dockyards. If the gallant Member proposed to have sailors' homes all over the coast, a new principle would be involved which could not be adopted without asking the House to consent to it. The scheme would entail considerable expenditure, since if carried out in England it must also be in Scotland and Ireland. In reply to the hon. Baronet the Member for Buckingham (Sir Harry Verney), he might say that the Duke of Somerset had taken into consideration the evidence laid before the Select Committee, and had found that, although it would be advantageous in some respects that a Chaplain General should be appointed, yet the arrangement had
 444
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, it was true the Treasury had awarded Sir Richard Bromley a pension of £1,000, but the appointment which he now held at Greenwich, to the advantage of the public service, entitled him to receive £600 a year, and the amount on the Vote was to raise his pay to that which he would have received as accountant general. When he resigned his present appointment, he would be entitled to draw the entire pension fixed by the Treasury.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, this was owing to the war in New Zealand and the surrender of the Ionian Islands. That step had rendered necessary the transport home of the stores hitherto collected there. Other portions of the increase were caused by the large force which had to be kept up in Canada and the local disbursements in China.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, there were Inspectors in the employ of the Go-
 443
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that the Admiralty were going to build two of those boats in the first instance, and not to commence any more until it was seen how those two answered.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that the subject referred to by his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury (Sir Morton Peto) had engaged the serious attention of the Government, and he hoped that at a later period of the Session a proposal would be brought before the House with the view of checking that frightful disease which was so great an evil in the navy. With reference to the matter brought forward by his hon. Friend the Member for Greenwich (Mr. Alderman Salomons), he was afraid it would be a considerable period before Deptford dockyard could be done away with; but when the time arrived the interests of the men employed in that yard would be duly considered.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that
 442
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he believed that it was understood in the House that the Government could not do away with their wooden ships, as they required a vast number of such vessels to perform the duties of what might be termed the police at sea, and at the present time they had not arrived at the position of being able to do without frigates and corvettes. They were obliged, to a great extent, to put their forces upon the same footing as those of other countries. With regard to the question of coal, of which the hon. Gentleman the Member for Sunderland (Mr. Lindsay) had made such a grievance, and in connection with which he showed so much antipathy towards the Government—
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET,  in reply to Mr. Laird, said, that the wooden ships, not armour-plated, to be completed during the year 1864–5 were the  Endymion Helicon Minstrel Cherub Alabama
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that the Admiralty exhibited no partiality in the choice of their coal. The naval officers certainly preferred the Welsh to the North country material; and to test the value of each the Admiralty had instituted a series of careful experiments, the result of which was already before the House in a report which he had lately laid on the table. He could only inform the hon. Member for Sunderland (Mr. Lindsay), and also the North country coal owners, that the Government had no desire to employ the Welsh coal exclusively, but simply to obtain the most satisfactory mixture they could for the use of the fleet, and orders had been given to supply the Fleet with both descriptions, which were to be combined in various proportions, and careful reports to be made. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Birkenhead (Mr. Laird) wished to know in what manner the Admiralty proposed to devote so large a sum of money to shipbuilding during the forthcoming year. Their proposal was to build of iron armour ships, 6–8ths; of wood armour large ships, 15½–8ths; of wood armour corvettes, 8¾–8ths; of frigates, 5¾ –8ths; of despatch vessels, 7½–8ths; of gunboats, 12½–8ths; of a fast vessel of new design, which he might term a species of  Alabama 441
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he would give the hon. Member the names of the ships it was proposed to construct.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he was glad to hear the hon. Baronet bear testimony to the economical working of the Admiralty transports. The  Tamar Orontes
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  asked, Why the full superannuation allowance of £1,000 a year granted to Sir Richard Bromley, the retired accountant general of the navy, was not included in this Vote? That pension had been allowed under a Treasury Minute of 1863, and the amount now asked was only £481 12 s
 MR. PUGH  said, the country was much indebted to the hon. Gentleman the Member for Chippenham (Mr. Long) for having brought forward the subject. Great dissatisfaction had existed in the neighbourhood of Carmarthen for some years past relative to the postal arrangements of the district The great cause for complaint was that sufficient use was not made of the facilities afforded by railways for the transmission of letters; and he was able to endorse the statements of the hon. Member with regard to the insufficiency of the arrangements at Gloucester and Car-
 407
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  observed, that the announcement of the intention of the Government to do away with the dock- yard at Deptford had given rise to a good deal of alarm among the men employed there and in the vicinity. He hoped, if such was the intention, that the claims of those men would be taken into consideration.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, that in ninny cases improved arrangements had not been carried out, in consequence of the extravagant sums demanded by railway companies for the conveyance of mails. With regard to the complaints which had been made, he believed that the Post Office authorities had made great efforts lo meet the wants of the public, but in so widely extended a system there must always be some particular cases of grievance, and it was impossible to satisfy every one.
 MR. BENT1NCK  thought that the arguments used by the right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary to the Treasury (Mr. Peel) favoured, rather than otherwise, the Motion which he intended to oppose. The hon. Member for Chippenham (Mr. Long), who brought forward the Motion, had no wish to pass any censure on the general conduct of the Post Office; but, being fully aware of the enormous difficulties attendant on the successful working out the complicated details of the system of the Post Office, he had moved that a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into those difficulties, and also into the best means of affording facilities to the Poet Office for meeting the evils
 414
 MR. BENTINCK  begged to express a hope that in future the Votes would be so arranged as not under one head to embrace such a multiplicity of questions, the effect of which was to lead to debate desultory and somewhat confused. He agreed with his hon. Friend the Member for Tyrone
 429 430
 MR. BENTINCK  said, that the noble Lord the Secretary for the Admiralty, had not exactly dealt with the question raised by the hon. Member for Tyrone (Mr. Corry) and afterwards alluded to by himself. That question related to the number of iron-plated ships about to be commissioned, either in private or in Her Majesty's dockyards. In asking the noble Lord what the future policy of the Admiralty with regard to the building of ships was to be, he wished to place no restrictions on the noble Lord. He only desired to know the views which the Admiralty entertained on so important a question as the future construction and state of the navy of this country. On a former occasion the noble Lord said that it was not intended to continue to build wooden ships, but to devote larger sums to the building of iron-plated vessels. But nothing confirmatory of that statement was to be found in the present Estimates. If the noble Lord thought that wooden ships would be useless against iron-plated ones—and the noble Lord had admitted that much—he wished to know what his ideas were as to our navy for the future. With the exception of one vessel, not a shilling was asked for in the present Estimates for the building of any additional iron-plated ships. Was our navy to be limited to the twenty-five iron-plated ships at present in existence, or were more to be built?
 MR. CLIVE  begged to second the Motion, and said, when he came down to the House he was under the impression that the hon. Member for Chippenham (Mr. Long) would not have brought it forward until to-morrow, and he was, therefore, not prepared with the facts which he had intended to bring forward in order to fortify the arguments of the hon. Member. He might state, however, that several complaints of delay in the transmission of letters through the post had come under his own personal knowledge. He particularly referred to Hereford and its neighbourhood, where the greatest inconvenience was experienced, owing to the mails being sent round through Shrewsbury, He had been in constant communication with his constituents on the subject for the last two years, and had made several representations to the Postmaster General, but without success. They were much obliged to the Postmaster General for some improvements he had effected, but grievances remained unredressed which subjected the public to much inconvenience. He hoped that the statements that had been made would have some influence on the mind of the noble Lord Her Majesty's Postmaster General.
 MR. HUNT  said that, as regarded the first part of the Motion; which was to excuse the hon. Member for Perthshire (Mr. Stirling), for non-attendance on the 22nd of March, there could be no objection; but, as regarded the latter part, he thought the House ought not to assent to it, for upon it another question arose, whether, in consequence of the adjournment which had taken place, the Lisburn Election Committee was now in existence. The proceedings of Election Committees were regulated by an Act of Parliament, the 11 & 12  Vict 392 "Shall meet at the time and place appointed for that purpose, and shall proceed to try the merits of the election petition so referred to them, and they shall sit from day to day, Sunday, Christmas-day and Good Friday only excepted; and shall never adjourn for a longer time than twenty-four hours, unless a Sunday, Christmas-day, or Good Friday intervene, and in such case not more than twenty-four hours, exclusive of such Sunday, Christmas-day, or Good Friday, without leave first obtained from the House, upon Motion, and special cause assigned for a longer adjournment; and if the House be sitting at the time to which such Select Committee is adjourned, then the business of the House shall be stayed, and a Motion shall be made for a further adjournment for any time to be fixed by the House; provided always that if such Select Committee have occasion to apply or report to the House, and the House be then adjourned for more than twenty-four hours, such Select Committee may also adjourn to the day appointed for the meeting of the House." sine die felo de se "In a recent case the Committee on a Monday informed the parties that they should apply to the House for leave to adjourn until eleven o'clock on the following Thursday. They then adjourned until the next day, Tuesday, at eleven o'clock, in case the House did not give them power to adjourn till Thursday. The House gave the Committee power to adjourn, and the Committee omitted to meet on the Tuesday, in order formally to adjourn, thinking that the leave given by the House operated as an adjournment. The following entry was made in the Minutes:— 'The House having given the Committee power to adjourn, the Committee stands adjourned until Thursday.' The irregularity was not known to the parties at the time. Some days afterwards the counsel for the sitting Member were about to object to any further proceedings on the part of the Committee on account of the flaw in the proceedings, but the point was not discussed, for upon the application of the counsel for the petitioners for further time to procure the attendance of witnesses, the Committee refused to grant it and reported the sitting Member duly elected." 393 "It would appear that in the case of an illegal adjournment such as that alluded to before, the Committee was dissolved by operation of law. Their powers lapsed from their not having been continued in accordance with the statutable authority. If this opinion be correct, that the powers of the Committee lapsed in consequence of the flaw in their proceedings, it seems quite clear that the House could give no relief. Their control over Election Committees is strictly defined by the Act of Parliament. They could not have appointed a second Committee, for that can only be done in the case alluded to in section 78."
 MR. HUNT  observed, that the first part of the Motion, excusing the hon. Member for Perthshire (Mr. Stirling) from further attendance, might be agreed to at once.
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, that the county which he had the honour to represent, enjoyed fewer facilities, in the way of postal communication, than any of the districts to which allusion had been made in the course of the debate. The question to be considered was entirely one of principle. It was, whether the Post Office ought to give increased accommodation to those districts only the inhabitants of which were able and willing to pay for it; or whether, having a large surplus revenue, the business was so to be conducted as to be altogether at the service of the country, although some of the correspondence would not be remunerative. The rule of the Post Office was to give increased accommodation only where it could be proved that it would pay, or where a guarantee was given against a possibly accruing deficit. He had presented a petition praying for increased postal facilities from the Isle of Skye, where, with a population of 20,000 inhabitants, there wag a mail
 413
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  begged to corroborate what had fallen from the hon. Member for Bodmin (Mr. Wyld), as to the dissatisfaction which prevailed in the West of England respecting the present postal arrangements. Scarcely any use was there made of the railways for postal purposes, and the inhabitants were at present absolutely worse off, with regard to the transmission of letters, than they were before the ago of railways. In one district there was only one post a day where formerly there were two. A few years ago, he brought before the House the case of a parish in Wilts, where a letter received from a place only five miles distant, occupied four days in its journey, having been taken round by Bristol, London, and possibly to other places. He had hoped that the Post Office authorities might have been able to improve the system, but nothing whatever had been done. He had been on deputation after deputation to the Post-
 409
 MR. STANSFELD  (who sat on the second bench below the gangway on the Ministerial side of the House) said, Sir, I crave the indulgence of the House while I offer some explanations of a personal character; and in order to admit of discussion, if discussion be desired, on the subject with which I have to deal, I shall conclude by moving the adjournment of the House. Since the House last sat I have taken a step which the place from which I speak will have already sufficiently indicated to the House. I have felt it to be my duty to send in my resignation to the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government. The House will recollect that upon a former occasion I tendered that resignation, and that the noble Lord refused to accept it. I thank the noble Lord for the implicit credence which he gave to the statements that I made to him and to the House, and I thank him likewise for the courage he showed upon a former occasion in standing by me. But, Sir, there are occasions on which, I think, it becomes a man to consult his own conscience and his own sense of right as to the course which he should adopt, and the present appears to me to have been one of those occasions. I have become convinced, from what I have seen, heard, and read, that I have ceased to be—if I could ever believe myself to have been—any accession to the strength of Her Majesty's Government, and that I have become—or, at any rate, I have reason to fear I may have become—a source of difficulty and a cause of embarrassment to them * 397 animus 398 The Times 399 400 401
 MR. WYLD  said, he hoped the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary to the Treasury would accede to the Motion. The hon. Member for Chippenham (Mr. Long) had not complained so much of Post Office mismanagement as of the persistent non-adoption of modern facilities offered by railways for improved postal arrangements. He spoke for the inhabitants of a large portion of the West of England, and though they were very thankful for what had already been done—and they knew how much they owed to the great man, who had till very recently held a high position in the General Post Office—still much remained to he accomplished, in order to give even absolutely necessary accommodation. He believed, that so far from Her Majesty's revenue losing by the improvements which were suggested for facilitating the delivery of letters, it would be greatly augmented thereby.
 MR. LAIRD  said, that as there had been a discussion as to the respective number of ships in the French and English navies he would quote what he believed to be an accurate statement of the strength of the French navy. He found that our neighbours possessed four iron-cased ships of 3,750 tons and 900 horse-power, two of 4,200 tons and 1,000 horse-power, and ten of 3,780 tons and 1,000 horse-
 439
 MR. LAIRD  said, that having been challenged by the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty, he thought it right to state that, although the building of ships in the Royal dockyards and by contract had been a good deal discussed in that House, he was not prepared to admit that the principle of building by contract had ever yet been fairly tested. The present system was a bad one. The designs were all made by the Controller of the Navy, assisted now by Mr. Reed, and until lately by Mr. Watts. The entire designing power for the navy of this country was, therefore, concentrated in one man. The plans were made by the Government, and the contractors were not allowed to exercise their own talent or their own ingenuity, but were bound down in every way to carry out the precise orders issued to them. He did not at all depreciate the talents of the Controller of the Navy or his assistants, but he did say it would be much better for the Government, if they determined to go on building ships by contract, to throw open the designs for the vessels to the whole talent of the country the to waste the public money on a school of naval architecture. He had never thought it desirable that the ships of our navy should be built altogether by private contract. He thought it would be madness to propose such a system, It would be injudicious to altogether discontinue the present system, but the Government should import into it all the talent of the country. What did Government do in the engine department?
 435
 MR. LAIRD  said, that it might be found necessary to take men engaged in shipbuilding from their duties and to place them upon repairs, but that fact would not prevent the noble Lord from replying to his question. He would again ask how many ships were to be built for the money that was about to be voted?
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : As to the armistice?
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : I wish, Sir, to put three Questions to the noble Lord at the head of the Government, of which I have given him notice. The first is, Whether all the Powers who were parties to the Treaty of London of 1852 have consented to attend the Danish Conference; the second is, whether the German Confederation have consented to send representatives to that Congress, and if any basis has been settled for this Conference to discuss; and the third is, whether an Armistice has been agreed upon?
 MR. R. LONG  said, he rose to move for a Select Committee of inquiry respecting the operations of the Post Office, with an especial view to the improvement of the existing arrangements for the transmission of mails in the provincial districts. His object was duly to point out the defects in our postal system within the kingdom, and he hoped that the instances which he would lay before the House would he sufficient to convince hon. Members of the reasonableness of his Motion. Some time ago he had put a question to Her Majesty's Goverment on the subject, but the answer he had received appeared to him so ambiguous that he thought himself justified in now asking the House to assent to a Committee of Inquiry. He had no wish to make any attack on the leading principles of the postal system. On the contrary, he did not think that anything could he better than the general arrangements made some twenty-five or thirty years ago for the transmission of our mails from London to the most extreme points of the kingdom. Too little attention had, however, been paid to tin; public convenience in regard to the postal communications between certain provincial town- in which the arrangements still observed wore of an extremely objectionable character. When it was considered what an enormous increase had taken place of late years in the number of letters transmitted through the post, it became the
 403 404 405 406
 MR. AYTOUN  said, he could corroborate the statements that had been made with reference to the great dissatisfaction that prevailed in country districts with regard to the present postal arrangements. The inhabitants of the rural districts of Scotland had also great reason for complaint, and he hoped the Committee would not be refused. The indifference shown by the Post Office authorities to the convenience of important places in the country, and the great delay in remedying a grievance when stated, were universally condemned. He brought a grievance complained of by his constituents before the notice of Her Majesty's Postmaster General in October last; and though the remedy for the same was, in itself, but a simple matter—an additional post in the middle of the day— five months elapsed before it was applied. The insufficiency of the present system was complained of in all parts of the country, and he hoped the Committee would be granted.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he understood that the Committee stood adjourned till eleven to-morrow, and therefore they must consider the course the Committee should then take, as well as what the House should do to-day. He concurred with the right hon. Baronet (Sir George Grey), that the matter had better be postponed for the attendance of the Law Officers of the Crown, and he thought, therefore, that the question had better be deferred until to-morrow. The Motion consequent upon the Report of the Committee had better be deferred till to-morrow, and the House could then take the whole subject into its consideration. He apprehended, however, that the Committee had better meet to-morrow, or they might involve themselves in new difficulties, and then adjourn till the following day, reporting what they had done to the House.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Member for Inverness (Mr. Baillie) had broadly and fairly laid down the principle that the Post Office ought not to be considered as a source of revenue to the Government, but that the surplus revenue derived from it ought to be expended in providing increased postal accommodation. For his own part, however, he should be very reluctant, by acceding to the proposal before the House, to commit himself to the acceptance of such a principle. The Post Office now yielded a net revenue of a million and a half; that million and a half was received in return for services, and stood in the place and performed the functions of a million and a half raised by taxation. If, therefore, the suggestion were acceded to that that million and a half was to be laid out in providing additional accommodation, the result would be that there would be a gap to that extent which would have to be stopped by the levying of a now tax, or by the augmentation of some tax already in existence. Now it was desirable to know, whether the principle involved in such a scheme was one upon which hon. Members were prepared to proceed, because any Committee appointed to try a particular case, would evidently derive the greatest possible light and assistance from the possession of information as to whether the House did or did not deem it right that the funds of the Post Office should be applied freely and without stint to the extension of local accommodation. Independently of that objection, which he naturally felt, as the person who would be expected to discover the unpleasant substitute for the revenue which was now raised without taxing anybody, he was disposed to doubt and question the justice of the doctrine which had that evening been laid down by more than one hon. Member; for what did it amount to, and where would it lead them? It would lead them to the conclusion that, while a largo revenue was raised in populous districts, in connection with the Post Office, that revenue might be appropriated to supplying the wants of remote districts with isolated houses difficult of access. Under that seemingly popular proposition, that the Post Office should not be a source of revenue, was concealed, not intentionally of course, a doctrine of a very different nature—namely, that one portion of the country ought to be taxed for the purposes of another. He did not agree with the doctrine that the Post
 416
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I expressly guarded myself against saying that in no case should there be increased accommodation unless the service were remunerative. My argument went to the extent of controverting the principle that the revenue of the Post Office ought generally to be applied to furnishing such accommodation to thinly inhabited localities.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that the postal communication with Aberdeen had been thrown into the greatest confusion in consequence of the discontinuance of the direct mails from Aberdeen. The railway companies were always ready to make the most liberal arrangements for the conveyance of the mails, and which would ensure the convenience of the district, but they were met by the remark, "Oh, you are too costly; the Post Office cannot afford it." But, in his opinion, whether the arrangements were costly or not, they ought to be adopted if the convenience of the public would be thereby enhanced. He thought that out of the large revenue of the Post Office a portion might well be devoted to remedying the grievances now complained of.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, the system which the hon. Member for Sunderland (Mr. Lindsay) wished to see carried out — namely, that the dockyard authorities should be accountable for all their receipts and outgoings and that there should be periodical stock takings—was in contemplation by the junior Lord of the Admiralty, whose services the Government had just now had the misfortune to lose, and whoso indefatigable inquiries during the last autumn had resulted in laying down a system which was explained in what was called the "labour chart." That hon. Member was possessed of an acute mind and unbounded zeal, and his services had been in the highest degree advantageous to the Government. It was to be hoped that he would be replaced by another officer of equal capability. As the Estimates were now framed, no one could properly judge whether the sums asked for were founded on a proper basis, or whether it was not all guess-work; for the sums were asked for in a lump, without the slightest explanation of the quantities or of the cost of the materials. Nothing short of the plan projected by the hon. Member for Halifax (Mr. Stansfeld) would be satisfactory to the House or to the country. He had been very much astonished to hear the hon. Gentleman the Member for Tyrone (Mr. Corry) quote a paragraph from a newspaper in reference to the relative strength of the French and English navies. If the hon. Member had referred to the French Estimates for 1865 or for 1864, he would have seen that the ships of the English navy were, both in number and power, beyond all comparison superior to those of the French navy. There had never been a time when our navy, in regard either to ships or men, was so powerful as at present.
 COLONEL SYKES : Aye, but not by the Government.
 COLONEL SYKES : Does he say they were published by the Government?
 COLONEL SYKES  observed, that there was an item of £2,000 for subsistence and travelling expenses of dockyard officers and others superintending ships building by contract. He would beg to ask how many of those persons were there, how often in the year did they make their superintendence, and what was their allowance?
 COLONEL SYKES  begged to call attention to the increase in several items over the Estimates for last year.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  hoped that no consideration would induce either the House or the Government to increase the rate of postage, or to make in any district the slightest variation from the uniform rate that now prevailed. Of all financial reforms that had taken place, the reduction in postage rates was the most important.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he must com-
 420
 SIR GEORGE GREY  begged to move that the Report brought up by the Chairman of the Committee be printed and considered to-morrow.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the question was one of considerable importance, and he felt with the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt) that it should not be hastily decided. Had it been generally known that the question would have come on for discussion that day, many hon. Members who were not present would have been in their places, and the Law Officers of the Crown also would have been in attendance. He thought the best course of proceeding would be for no discussion on the subject to take place that night, but that it be postponed till the following day, and that then the Report should be brought up by the Chairman of the Committee and printed, and then the House would have the question distinctly before it. The Motion, that the hon. Member for Perthshire (Mr. Stirling) be discharged from attendance on the Committee, should not be adopted, as it would prejudge the question to be discussed by the House.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  asked, Whether it was the intention of the Admiralty to appoint a Chaplain General to the navy in accordance with the recommendations of the Select Committee which had recently reported in favour of the appointment of such an official?
 MR. ADAIR  said, that the hon. Member had referred to the 73rd section of the Act, but had overlooked the 75th, which provided that when one of the Members was prevented attending on account of illness, an Election Committee was obliged to adjourn and report the Member's absence to the House; and the section further stated that the Committee should not sit again until the excuse of the Member so absenting himself was allowed by the House, when the four remaining Members of the Committee would proceed with the investigation. It therefore appeared to the Lisburn Election Committee that they were no longer a Committee for any purpose whatever, until the excuse of the hon. Member for Perthshire (Mr. Stirling), for not attending the Committee on the ground of illness, was allowed by the House; and if the Committee had adjourned till the present day, they would not then, on meeting, have been a Committee for sitting, deliberating, deciding, or even adjourning to the
 394
 MR. ADAIR,  as Chairman of the Committee, begged to move that Mr. Stirling be excused for non-attendance at the Committee on the 22nd of March, and that he should have leave to absent himself from any of its further sittings.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, with reference to the item £120,000 for gunboats to be built by private contract, he should be glad of some explanation. Our former gunboats had been such lamentable failures, that he thought the noble Lord the Secretary for the Admiralty ought to state the nature of the gunboats he intended to build.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he quite agreed with his hou. Friend the. Member for Birkenhead (Mr. Laird), that it would be a great advantage if the Government could be assisted in their designs for the navy by the whole available talent of the country. The country had suffered by placing the construction of ships in the hands of individuals. Uncontrolled by any supervision, or by the operation of contemporary science, the ships of Sir W. Symonds had cost the country dear. He did
 436 The Times
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  begged to urge the expediency of establishing sailors homes, and of combining therewith recruiting offices. There was a great want of the former as temporary barracks when the men came on shore; and with regard to the latter, he must say that recruiting was conducted on the primitive style of a hundred years ago, and that the public-houses were the recruiting offices of the navy. He would suggest that some money might be advantageously expended in improving the system?
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE,  though he did not personally anticipate such an event, considered that six-eighths of a vessel like the  Alabama Alabama
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  asked what were the iron gunboats for which there was an item of £120,000?
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he wished to explain that his question referred only to sailors' homes in dockyards.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  remarked, that while the  Himalaya Orontes Himalaya Himalaya
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  begged to repeat his question as to whether there would be any objection to give the Return to
 446
 SIR MATTHEW RIDLEY  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary to the Treasury (Mr. Peel), had complained that specific cases of grievances had not been adduced. In a case represented to him as occurring in the district which he had the honour to represent, he thought there was a substantial grievance. By recent orders of the Postmaster General, the letter carriers were no longer to carry penny newspapers unless they were stamped. The consequence was that those papers were thereby doubled in price. It had been suggested that a smaller stamp might be adopted. That was altogether another matter. A grievance of that nature— which was entirely in opposition to the assistance which the Post Office ought to give to the diffusion of information—might very well be inquired into by the proposed Committee. He considered he had furnished the right hon. Gentleman with a specific case of grievance, and he should certainly support the Motion.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he could not think with the hon. Member for West Norfolk (Mr. Bentinck), that the hon. Member; for Sunderland (Mr. Lindsay) was to be blamed for calling attention to the comparative merits of the two systems. Great service was done by the discussion as to the comparative merits of public and private dockyards, as it had the effect of keeping the Government up to the mark, and urging them on to improvements. He quite agreed that in the Government dockyards I such a number of ships should be built as I would render the country prepared for any emergency; but, at the same time, he wanted the accounts of the Admiralty to be so I presented that hon. Members might know the cost of building every single vessel, with the amount of tonnage accurately defined, so that having the same data in the case of a vessel constructed in a private yard, a comparison might be instituted between the two. It would then be seen what was actually doing, whether the country was obtaining value for its money. He agreed with the hon. Member (Mr. Bentinck), that it was important that they should know the future policy of the Government with respect to iron and wooden vessels. Were they prepared to vote money for the repairs of an immense number of wooden vessels which, at the present moment, were practically useless, and which nobody imagined could be sent out against an enemy? With regard to those which were coining home, he trusted that his noble Friend the Secretary to the Admiralty would follow the practice which was
 431
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, it would be desirable if the noble Lord would state the intentions of the Admiralty with regard to the repairs of iron-coated vessels. When the hon. Member for Tyrone (Mr. Corry) stated the proportion between our ironclads and those of France to be as thirty-seven French and thirty-one English, he ought to have mentioned the difference in their tonnage. The largest of the French vessels was 4,000 tons—most of them were of 2,000 tons—while in our own navy many of the ships were from 5,000 to 7,000 tons.
 SIR MORTON PETO  asked what steps the Admiralty intended to take with respect to mitigating the prevalence of a disease which was at present so great an evil in the navy?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : All the parties who signed and concluded the Treaty of 1852 have consented to send representatives to the Conference. No answer has yet been received from the German Diet, who have been invited to send a representative. The basis proposed for the Conference to start from is an endeavour to restore peace to the North of Europe. We have not thought it desirable, upon the plea of establishing a basis, to endeavour to settle beforehand those subjects which can more properly be the subjects of consideration when the Conference shall be assembled.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : No armistice has yet been agreed to.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, my hon. Friend has reminded the House that on the former occasion when he tendered his resignation I declined to accept it and requested him to continue in office. Upon the present occasion, as he has now state d, he left me no option. I can only say that I am convinced that the motives which led my hon. Friend to make that peremptory decision were highly honourable to him. He no doubt thought, having an explanation to make, which he has may made, and which I am persuaded the House will deem perfectly and entirely satisfactory, that such explanation would come from him with a better grace and with more effect if holding an independent position than if he made it from the bench on which we now sit. Sir, I can only express the great regret which I and my Colleagues feel at having lost the official assistance of a man whose great ability, whoso untiring industry, whose perfect truthfulness, and whose unswerving integrity of mind rendered him a must valuable Member of the Administration to which he belonged, and endeared him to all those who had the advantage of his friendship. With regard to those insinuations and aspersions to which he has referred, I can only say that with him I repudiate them with disdain. I am firmly convinced, and I am sure all (hose who know my hon. Friend must be equally convinced, that any charge of implication in those base proceedings, which charge I think had been basely thrown out against him, is altogether unsupported by proof and is utterly devoid of foundation.
 402
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : A question of considerable importance as regards the practice of the House and to Members of Election Committees was incidentally raised upon this Motion by my hon. Friend the Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt) yesterday, and it is a question, I think, of very much too great importance for the House to dispose of in a hasty or informal manner. It appears that a petition was presented against the validity of the return for Lisburn, a Committee was appointed to try the merits of that Petition, and in a Report which we have from that Committee they simply mention the absence, on the day of the last meeting before the recess, of one of the Members, on the ground of illness, and they make the usual application to the House to accept the excuse of that hon. Member, and to relieve him from further attendance upon the Committee. The House yesterday examined evidence at the Bar, and satisfied itself as to the validity of the excuse, but the hon. Member for Northamptonshire took notice that the Committee had adjourned to a day, which, according to the view he took of the Act of Parliament under which they were acting, was a day to which it was not in their power to adjourn. That raised the important question
 462 463
 MR. HENLEY : I have no wish, after what has fallen from the two hon. and learned Gentlemen, than to make the observation that I do not feel quite clear what the position of the House will be after to-morrow. The formal attention of the House was called yesterday by the hon. Member for Northamptonshire to the question that, in his opinion, the Committee had adjourned to a day to which it was not competent for them to adjourn. I understand now that the House has received a Report from the Committee, which, by its adjournment from day to day, is to meet to-morrow, and when the Committee is to take action on some supposed proposal, which may be made by
 465
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the question at issue was a pure question of law, and he apprehended that the course taken by the House to-night would not affect it in the slightest degree.
 MR. MONTAGUE SMITH  said, that having looked into the Act of Parliament, he considered the Committee defunct, and the House could neither give nor take away jurisdiction from such a body. The jurisdiction of an Election Committee stood entirely on the Act of Parliament, which prescribed a most rigid code of procedure.
 472
 LORD STANLEY : Sir, it seems to me that the House is getting itself into a little difficulty about this matter. It appears quite clear from the terms of the Act, that the Committee has in effect put an end to its own existence, by adjourning to an illegal day, and consequently any act subsequently performed by it will have no validity in law. On the other hand, it appears equally clear that the powers of the Committee, being derived from the statute and not from any Resolution of Parliament, no Resolution which we might pass can in the slightest degree influence the future proceedings of the Committee or the state of the law. We cannot,
 473
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : The noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn appears to me to have overlooked two things, one of which has been pointed out by my right hon. Friend opposite. The other is the effect of his Motion on the position of the hon. Member for Perthshire. The present position of the hon. Member is this, that up to this moment he has been absent from the Committee without leave—his excuse not having been allowed by the House. The Act states that any Member of a Committee who absents himself without leave or excuse, shall be directed to attend the House at its next sitting, and he shall then be taken into the custody of the Serjeant at Arms. If, therefore, you adjourn this matter for six months you will be, in the first place, directly superseding the Act; and secondly, you will leave the hon. Member for Perthshire in this unpleasant and improper situation, that he will be liable to be taken into the custody of the Serjeant at Arms. The House must either reject or accept the excuse, and if you reject it you must proceed against the hon. Member under the terms of the Act. The noble Lord has evidently overlooked the latter part of the 75th clause, which deals with the sittings of a Parliamentary Committee during the absence of a Member. Such a Committee, although it cannot sit for business during the absence of a Member, can sit for the purpose of adjourning daily, and that was the view of those who thought the Committee had done wrong in this instance in adjourning over till the re-assembling of the House after the Easter holydays, instead of adjourning from day to day until the matter had been settled by the acceptance or rejection of the excuse for the hon. Member for Perthshire's absence. If the
 476
 LORD STANLEY  said, he had proposed his Amendment as a means of disembarrassing the House from an inconvenient responsibility; but, as it did not meet the approval of the hon. and learned Gentleman who was mainly responsible for the management of such questions, he would not press it.
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether it is the intention of the Government to change the port of departure of the Mails from. Southampton; and whether, since a Committee of the House decided in favour of Bristol as a port of departure, but did not consider there was sufficient accommodation for ships and passengers, and those requirements being now obtained by a Railway to Portishead, and the projection of Docks, a Bill for which is before Parliament, he would take the case of Bristol into consideration?
 MR. PEEL replied , that there was no present intention of changing the port of departure of any of the Mails which now left Southampton. In consequence of some memorials which had been received, inquiries were being made as to what would be the advantage in point of time, and as to what additional subsidy would have to be given if the West India Mail Packets which left Southampton were required to call at some port more southernly than Southampton, with the view of landing and embarking Mails. He imagined that Bristol, as a port of call for vessels starting from Southampton, would be unsuited. As to its being available as a port of departure, when any contracts had to be renewed the Government would be unfettered with regard to the acceptance of an offer on that subject, and such an offer would, of course, be taken into consideration.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that the Circular referred to by the hon. Member was not framed for the purpose of conferring any fresh privileges, but only with a view to regulating the manner in which those already existing should be exercised. The wives and families of the Clerks in some of the Civil Departments of the Army had long been entitled to receive medical assistance under certain circumstances, but it was not considered advisable to extend that system further. He had no objection to lay upon the table Copies of the Circular.
 MR. PEEL  said, the House had been told that the Government could not contend for the fullest assertion of the right of public property to be exempt from local rates, because they had for several years past obtained an annual Vote for making contributions to certain parishes in respect to the Government property situated in them. Now, there were circumstances in the present day, in his opinion, which, though they did not raise the question as to the propriety of the exemption of public property from local rating, yet justified the Government in making exceptions to the application of that principle. There was no doubt that the Government property was now more extensive than it used to be; and, on the other hand, the local rates had very considerably increased. Local undertakings and drainage works were conducted on a much larger and more expensive scale than formerly, and the ratepayers felt more severely any contraction of the area of rating. But because the principle of exemption should be suspended in certain cases he did not think they ought to go to the other extreme, and say that all public property should pay rates, just as if it were private property. It would be quite as unreasonable and unfair that public property should be rated in every case, as that it should be exempt in every case. If it was right that public property should pay rates, the rule should be subject to great exceptions, that would go far to neutralize the purpose which his hon. Friend had in view. He did not think, for instance, that property then in possession of the Government ought to be liable to rates. It should be remembered that occupiers were by no means a fixed body. Premises did not usually remain in the same hands for a long time, and where property for a considerable period had been exempt from rates it was quite evident that in such a place leases were made and
 489 490 491
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, that Mr. Western was eminently qualified to act as a Member of the Committee, from the fact that he represented a county which was peculiarly situated with regard to turnpikes.
 MR. YORKE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of the Admiralty, Whether he is aware that ten of the captains of 1846 who were compulsorily placed on the retired list on attaining the age of sixty, without having served in their present rank, have refused an offer of retirement on 18 s s s s
 MR. LYGON  said, he could not understand how the question had come before the House. If the Committee was in existence it could, of course, Report; but if, as some thought, it was defunct, it could make no Report at all. Supposing the House were, as suggested, to refer the matter hack to the Committee, and supposing the Committee were to decide, at its meeting on the next day, that it was competent to it to go on, it might proceed without reporting to the House at all. On the other hand, if the Committee was really defunct, the House should not allow its power to slip away from it into the hands of four Gentlemen, who were
 466
 MR. DUTTON  said that, however much certain parishes like those of London might be benefited by the existence within them of Government buildings, that argument did not apply to a great many small parishes in the country. He knew of a parish near Aldershot where large barracks and a lunatic asylum had been erected, and where, consequently, the rates pressed with undue severity on the parishioners.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that it was true that there were some gallant officers who were rather disadvantaged than advantaged by the Order in Council of 1860, but their case was not so bad as the hon. Member supposed. Under the old Orders they had the option of retiring at the age of fifty-five or of remaining on the active list with all its chances, when
 502 s s s s s d s d s s
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET , in reply, said, the Admiralty had decided to withdraw the advertisement notifying that they would accept the private proof certificates of Messrs. Brown, Lennox, and Co., and that in future they did not intend to hire any vessels the chains, cables, and anchors of which had not been proved at a public testing machine, and that the same would he notified by advertisement. At the same time, he was bound to state, with reference to Messrs. Brown, Lennox, and Co., that the change had not been made on account of any dissatisfaction with regard to their chains and anchors, but in order that they might be put on the same footing with other makers.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, ho rose to ask the Vice President of the Council, If he will state to the House the grounds upon, which Mr. Morell has been dismissed from the office of Her Majesty's Inspector?
 MR. AYRTON  said, he entirely concurred with the Attorney General that they ought to pass a Resolution expressing no opinion, but that the hon. Gentleman who had been absent from the Committee should be excused for non-attendance. But, unfortunately, the Attorney General had coupled that sound advice with a suggestion that something might be done in the future, and he ventured to express his humble dissent from that suggestion. What was the object of the Act? To divest the House of Commons as a body of all right to intervene in the proceedings of an Election Committee. They had set up Election Committees and remitted to them the whole question, without reserving the smallest control over their proceedings. Such being the law, the usage and rights of Parliament entirely fell to the ground. The whole matter was a question of the construction of a statute, and there was no part of that statute which vested in the House any right to give any direction whatever to an Election Committee. The House had no such power. The Committee must go on at their peril, and finish their work as they best could, if they thought they could go on; but one thing they had no right to do—to bring back the question to the House and ask them to decide, or give them any direction how they should decide in the matter.
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, that from a Report of Her Majesty's Consul at New York, the Government had learnt that the Judge of the District Court had directed that the  Saxon 478
 MR. LAYARD  said, he had no information upon the subject beyond rumour.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, he rose to call attention to the exemption from Local Taxation now claimed on account of property in the occupation o Government Departments; and to move that all Lands and Buildings used and occupied for Public purposes should be assessed to Local Rates, and pay Rates accordingly. The question was one which affected not only his own constituents, but more or less every district throughout the kingdom. Exemption from local rating was claimed for all premises in the occupation of Government for public purposes, but he was at a loss to understand why they should be relieved of their fair share of the local burdens. The local taxation of the United Kingdom amounted to about
 480 481 "I certainly should be well pleased if it were made part of the general law that, whenever property subject to rates is taken for a public purpose, it should remain subject to the same burden while it is applied to those public purposes. I think this would be but equitable; for the existing law is very hard upon the occupiers of the rest of the parish, upon whom an increased burden is thrown. But, as the law now stands, if property is in the occupation of the servants of the Crown for public purposes, it is exempt from rates. It is wholly immaterial whether it be part of the hereditary property of the Crown, or be obtained for this purpose, having before been in the occupation of a subject." "I also am of opinion that land occupied by the servants of the Crown, exclusively for the performance of a public duty, is not rateable. I agree in thinking that it would be just in future to make such land rateable, on some equitable principle; but it is the province of the Legislature to alter the law; it is our province to declare the law as it is; and under the existing law such property is exempt." "I am clearly of opinion that this property is within the rule which exempts from rates property occupied for public purposes. It is said this rule works hardship on the rest of the parish; and this may be, although the Legislature do not seem as yet to be of that opinion. In early canal acts there often was a provision that property occupied for the canal should he rateable, but at the same rate as if occupied as before. Without some such qualification, it might be injurious to make property, taken for the Crown, rateable in the occupation of its servants." 482 s s 483 484
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS , in reply, expressed his disappointment at the speech of the Secretary to the Treasury, who had been misinformed upon some points. There was, he believed, no instance in which the Government had made any contribution in respect of any other charge but that for the relief of the poor. With respect to what had fallen from the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he would only observe, that churches and chapels were exempted by the statute from local taxation. He was in the hands of the House, and if it was their wish that he should not press his Motion to a division, he would be willing to withdraw it.
 MR. MACDONOGH  said, he thought the course proposed by the hon. and learned Attorney General was full of peril. In the first place it was a strange proceeding to empower the Committee to correct its own mistake, if a mistake had been committed; and, in the next place, neither of the contingencies which had been suggested might arise. There might be no objection taken by either party, and it did not follow that the Committee would make a Report to the House. The whole thing might thus be left at sea. He had no hesitation in asserting ns a lawyer, that the proceedings of the Committee were illegal. The Committee had no power to adjourn for so long a period, and the inquiry was at an end. Nothing could be more plain and distinct than the mandatory language of the statute. The object of requiring adjournments from day to day was obvious. If a Committee could adjourn for a week or a fortnight, that very adjournment by enabling the party petitioned against to retain his seat and vote, might turn the fate of a Ministry. There was nothing technical in the question; his hon. and learned Friend was well skilled in the proceedings of Courts of Equity, but he did not appear so often in a Court of Law, or he would have known that it was not technical to say that every inferior tribunal must follow the conditions attached to its existence by statute; and there was not a country gentleman present who did not
 467 Geo 468 autre fois convict Geo Vict 469
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  remarked, that the reason why the latter part of the Motion was to be left out was to prevent the House committing itself upon the question of law. All the House was asked to do was to excuse the non-attendance of the hon. Member for Perthshire on the 22nd of March, and the Committee would meet the next day on its own responsibility. The meeting might turn out to be a meeting of four gentlemen having no authority, or, if the House so decided, it might be a meeting of a properly constituted Committee.
 MR. CLIVE  moved that the Select Committee on Turnpike Trusts consist of twenty-one Members.
 MR. CLIVE  said, he must deprecate the idea of any prejudice existing in the minds of the Members nominated. Originally, he proposed that there should he seventeen
 501
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, that the Government, at all events, could not use the argument urged against this proposal by the hon. Gentleman who had last spoken, because they had conceded the principle at issue. He did not wish to enter into first principles, or to discuss the question whether property ought to be liable to rates in proportion to its being beneficially occupied or not; but he took his stand on the Report of the Select Committee of 1858, which was presided over by the lamented Sir George Lewis. When this Parliament met in the summer of 1859, the question was put whether the Ministry proposed to introduce a Bill to render Government property subject to rates, and Sir George Lewis answered that he hoped to carry out an arrangement for giving some of the principal parishes concerned, some compensation for the nonpayment of rates on the Government property situated in them. He had himself drawn attention to the position of the town of Aldershot, and asked whether it was not as fully entitled to participate in the grant on that account as any other place. Sir George Lewis treated the question as a large and general one, and distinctly admitted the principle that the Government inflicted an injustice by occupying property of that description with-
 487
 MR. PAULL  said, he was a Member of this unfortunate Committee, and he thought it right to offer some observations in reply to the suggestions made by the Attorney General and the hon. and learned
 470 471
 MR. BONHAM-CARTER  said, he should regret if a Vote were agreed to in a thin House, with the prospect of having it reversed afterwards in a full House; though he quite agreed with the principle that public buildings of a certain class should be liable to local taxation. He, however, thought, after what had fallen from the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that it would not be wise to press the Motion to a division.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the hon. Member could not then oppose Mr. Western's appointment, but that he could do so by giving notice.
 MR. LAIRD  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether it is correct that the Transport Board of the Admiralty have decided to withdraw the Advertisement, dated the 19th January last, notifying that they would accept the Private Proof Certificates of Messrs. Brown, Lennox, and Co., for Chain Cables and Anchors for Vessels hired by the Transport Board, and that in future they intend not to hire any Vessels the Chain Cables and Anchors of which are not proved at a public testing machine; and if this will be notified by public advertisement?
 MR. LOCKE  said, that he also had been a Member of the Select Committee of 1858, and he had heard no argument to induce him to alter the opinion to which he had then given expression, that all public property should be included in the general rating. He would ask what was the popular meaning of the words "beneficial occupation," and whether there was any occupation that was not for some one's benefit. A Government dockyard, for example, was occupied for the benefit of the public at large, and a hospital for the benefit of its inmates, and was that particular locality in which these institutions were situated justly called upon to pay a larger proportion towards the rates than other portions of the community? It was proved over and over again before the Committee, that it was no benefit to parishes, but rather detrimental to them, that they contained Government establishments. The same ground, if occupied by private establishments, would pay rates, and why should there be one rule for the Government and another for the public at large? When the Committee was moved for in 1858, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge, who was then Secretary for the Home Department, had agreed with him that the principle of rating should be extended to all public buildings whatever, and had upon his suggestion enlarged the reference to the Committee, so as to include public buildings of every description, whether belonging to the Government, or to any institutions, charitable or otherwise; and the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Wilts, in accordance with the Report of the Committee, brought in a Bill the principle of which was clear and plain, that all property whatever of a public description should be rated to the relief of the poor and other burdens. He
 494 Will
 MR. LOCKE  said, it appeared to him that the hon. and learned Member for Truro (Mr. Montague Smith) had given an opinion upon this question which he had no right to give. The hon. and learned Gentleman said the Committee was defunct, and he called upon the House to declare it to be defunct. [Mr. MONTAGUE SMITH: No, no!] That House should not constitute itself a jury to sit upon the body of the Committee. It was evident that the House had no power whatever to act in the matter. He considered that the proposition made by the Attorney General was the right one to act upon under the circumstances. Let the House wait until the Committee had put them in possession of some tangible facts, and then they would do nothing. He was opposed to the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. WYKEHAM-MARTIN  said, he would put it to the hon. Member for Peterborough, who spoke of the national and general objects served by the Government establishments, whether it was fair that the cost of those objects should be defrayed out of the pockets of individual parishes. As to the benefit which those establishments conferred on their immediate neighbourhood, he could state that it was greatly over estimated. The truth was, that in the district which he represented there was property which the Government would themselves neither beneficially occupy nor let others do it. They kept a bare common for strategical purposes. There was but one public institution in the parish, the Military Lunatic Asylum, and that was a burden to the neighbourhood. Within his recollection it was the practice that so long as a soldier was in sound health in the bar-
 488
 MR. LOWE : I am sorry, Sir, that the noble Lord has thought it necessary to put this question, because the punishment of dismissal is a very severe one, and I am unwilling to add to the pain of it by a public discussion in this House. It would be scarcely fair to Mr. Morell if I were to undertake to state  ex parte 479
 MR. WALPOLE : I subscribe to every word stated by the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn with so much clearness and force in the commencement of his speech, but, in the latter part, he pointed out the great difficulty in which the House is placed, and I a in rather doubtful whether it will not be increased by the course proposed by my noble Friend. By adopting it the House will some to no decision upon the subject; the Committee may consider that they are bound to meet, and the friends of the petitioner and also those of the sitting Member may consider they are perfectly entitled to have the petition heard out. The proceedings may go on from day to day, expenses be incurred, and nothing be decided, and the matter will have to come jack to the House for advice and guidance in a worse form than it is at present. For that reason, I doubt if the House had better adopt the Amendment for the further adjournment of the question. Some of the observations made by the hon. and learned Member for the
 474 475
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, he differed entirely from the recommendation of the Committee which had been referred to. He considered that it was not a wise determination, and that it would entail upon the country a large and unnecessary expenditure. These buildings were for the public convenience, and were useful to the localities where they were placed. As to the argument about the land being covered by other buildings, he doubted if there were no Government establishments whether the land would be covered at all. He thought it would be a great waste of public money to tax buildings which were for the general convenience, and he hoped the Government would not assent to the Motion.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the fact that there was a dockyard in Portsmouth at all was entirely due to the action of the Government, but for which the work now performed there would have been carried on at Liverpool or upon the Clyde. In the case which he had taken for convenience, of a parish where half the property was Government property, he contended that to throw the Government property into rating was simply to relieve the rest of the parish of a certain charge which had been placed upon it from time immemorial, and that was what he called the endowment of the ratepayers of that particular parish out of the pockets of the ratepayers of the country. That would be the consequence of adopting a Motion in the terms of that to which they were now asked to accede. He did not wish to lay down any rigid rule upon the subject, because bethought time should be allowed to the House to see their way through the difficulties with which it was surrounded. Some progress had already been made in that direction. In the case of the barracks at Chelsea and various other cases, the Treasury had given its sanction to a principle which he considered a very fair one, that the parish should be no loser by throwing land into Government occupation, but that the assessment should continue the same as before. The Government were at present engaged in working out that difficult question, and endeavouring to frame just, fair, and equitable rules with regard to it. It was a very serious matter which would have to be considered, whether they should make a proposal involving buildings other than Government buildings to the House. He was prepared to admit that he did not think the present system satisfactory. He could not, however, agree with those who said that the House had committed itself to any line of action upon the subject. The House had done nothing except byway of annual Vote, for the express purpose of reserving the matter, and keeping it in its own hands. But when the Government had arrived at clear views, and had solved the difficulties of the case in the most practical manner they were able, it would be proper to apply
 498 modus operandi
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had understood that it was not the intention of his hon. Friend to take the sense of the House, but having heard within the last few minutes that such was his intention, he was reluctantly obliged to call attention to the precise question upon which they were about to divide. It appeared that by his Motion, in the mind of the hon. Baronet the Member for Portsmouth, and others, the hon. Member was about to give effect to the recommendation of the Committee of 1858, which recommendation was supported by the high authority of Sir George Lewis, though Sir George Lewis afterwards somewhat modified his views. But nothing could be more different than the proposition of the Committee of 1858 from the Motion of his hon. Friend. His hon. Friend who last spoke was somewhat inconsistently about to support the Motion, having himself indicated the principle on which they ought to proceed. He said, let there be no exceptions—let them carry out the principle that everything was of value. That principle was good for
 495 496
 MR. MORRISON , in seconding the Motion, said, his constituency was much interested in the subject, because although in some places the Government had paid a share of the poor rates, they had refused to give even that relief to Plymouth. The case of his constituents might be briefly stated. The Committee which sat in 1858 declared that the ordinary principle of rating for Poor Law purposes was not applicable to Government establishments, because it was impossible to say what a fort or a dockyard might let for, and they recommended the appointment of arbitrators. In 1859 Mr. Wilson, then Secretary of the Treasury, put himself in communication with the authorities of Plymouth, and eventually surveyors
 485 s d 486
 MR. ANGERSTEIN  said, the Resolution of his hon. Colleague only applied to public buildings occupied by the Government, and did not refer at all to buildings used for charitable or sacred purposes. It was left to the right hon. Gentleman to deal with that larger subject, if he were so disposed. The right hon. Gentleman had dwelt upon the fact that much of the Government property had been used for public purposes for long periods, and therefore ought not, after a lapse of years, to be suddenly called upon to bear the local burdens. But, although Deptford dockyard had been long established, it had been enlarged from time to time. The same could be said in stronger terms of Woolwich dockyard and arsenal. In consequence of the Government establishments, the population of the parish of Plumstead had increased within the last ten years from 8,000 to 26,000. Last year 4,000 workmen had been discharged from the Government establishments at
 500
 MR. FERRAND  said, he objected to the name of Mr. Western, and would suggest instead the appointment of Sir John Ramsden.
 MR. FERRAND  said, that the Committee moved for by the hon. Member for Hereford did not contain in its list any representative of the agricultural interests in the neighbourhood of the manufacturing districts. He would therefore request the hon. Gentleman to postpone the Motion for a week, to enable the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department to place some unprejudiced Member of the House upon the Committee.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, that as an unfortunate Member of the Committee, he would express a hope that the House would not create any difficulty which might increase their embarrassment. The Attorney General and the hon. and learned Member for Belfast seemed to proceed upon the supposition, that if the Committee met on the following morning it would certainly happen that objection would be made by one or both of the parties to their proceeding. It was, however, by no means certain that that contingency would arise, and he trusted that the House would continue the discussion so as to aid the Committee with its order or advice. He trusted that the Committee would be left with some idea of what they were to do in the event of a different result from that which appeared to be contemplated by the two hon. and learned Gentlemen.
 MR. ALDERMAN ROSE  said, he would beg to ask the Tinder Secretary of State for War, Why the Privilege of Medical Attendance for the Wives and Families, of Clerks and others in the War Department, granted by Circular dated 19th of March, 1857, was not extended to the Wives and Families of the Civil Assistants of the Ordnance Survey Branch of that Department; and why the Privileges contained in the Medical Circular, No. 849, and dated 30th January, 1864, have not been applied to the Wives and Families of the permanent Civil Assistants and others of the Ordnance Survey Branch of the War Department?
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether he can give any information to the House of the results of the reference to the American Government respecting the seizure of the  Saxon
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he would suggest to his hon. Friend that, after the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman, it might, not be advisable to divide. He did not agree with all the charges which had been made — sometimes seriously, and sometimes in jest—against the Administration of the day; on the contrary, he thought both Governments had behaved with remarkable good faith towards the naval ports. He advised the hon. Member
 499
 SIR GEORGE GREY  reminded the House that the course which was recommended by his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General, and concurred in by the hon. and learned Member for Belfast, was one which did not recognize in any degree the present legal existence of the Committee. The only Motion submitted was, that the hon. Member for Perthshire (Mr. Stirling) should be excused for his non-attendance on the Committee on a day when it undoubtedly had a legal existence. But his hon. and learned Friend proposed, under the peculiar circumstances of the case, that the Committee should be allowed to act for itself; and that when it met on the following day, if an objection should be made to its competence, or if it had doubts as to its power to proceed, it might then come with a Report to the House and ask for its guidance and direction. He concurred with the hon. and learned Gentleman who had last spoken in the opinion, that the House ought to be most cautious in their conduct as regarded a Committee which was not sitting under the authority of that House, but under that of an Act of Parliament. He agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman in thinking that it was a case in which the House had really no power to interfere. The wisdom of the course suggested seemed to him to be more prudent since he had heard the speeches of hon. Gentlemen on the other side. It might turn out that they would ultimately have to express an opinion on the matter, although he hoped they would not; but it would be inexpedient to commit themselves by any hasty resolution. If the present suggestion of the Government were adopted, it would not render valid the proceedings of the Committee on the following day. If its proceedings might be legally questioned in a court of law, no Resolution of the House could prevent it.
 MR. ADAIR  said, as Chairman of the Committee, he wished to say that after all he had heard he believed the course suggested by the Attorney General would be the best course for the Committee to pursue. He ventured to say on behalf of the Committee, that they would undertake to consider the question with what small amount of wisdom they might find amongst them, and come to some conclusion upon it. Should it occur to them that their proceedings had become unintentionally invalid, then they would be prepared to state the fact, and if they should see reason for drawing the attention of the House to anything that might occur the next day, it would be in their power to make a Report to the House. The Committee, he was sure, regretted that through an inadvertence the discussion had been rendered necessary, but at the same time he was also sure they would not hesitate to take upon themselves the responsibility of any further proceedings.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : I certainly concur, generally, in the advisability of the course which my hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General has proposed, and in the observations which he has made. It is quite true that the objection which has been raised is of a highly technical character, but it must be remembered that the whole of the Act of Parliament is technical in its character. Good reasons can no doubt be assigned for the stringent rules laid down for the meeting and proceedings of an Election Committee; but any one who consults the Act of Parliament will find that the rules are of a most imperative and precise character. Another reason why we should act with great caution and deliberation is, that it is obvious that this is a matter in which the House, unless it acts with great care, may bring itself into collision with the other House of Parliament and with the Courts of Law. Certain proceedings may be taken or suggested on the Report of an Election Committee constituted by Act of Parliament, provided the other House of Parliament agree; but the other House may say that the proceedings of the Committee are irregular, and may decline to assent to them. Again, actions for penalties in the Courts of Law may raise embarrassing questions as to whether the return of the Committee has been legal or not. As the Attorney General has pointed out, we possess only an incidental knowledge of the difficulty that exists. We have no Report from the Committee stating that objections have been raised to their proceedings, or that they feel a difficulty on the subject. All that they have done is to report the illness of one of their members, and to ask that the usual order of the House in such a case should be made. We are told that the Committee have met to-day, and have taken
 464
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he wished to ask, whether any proposal has been made to pension the widow of the chief officer of the  Saxon
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  explained that what he said was, assuming for the
 497
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he thought that a powerful case had been made out for the Motion. In 1858 he had moved for a Committee on the same subject, which was granted, and the Government had stated their intention of adhering to the principle contained in the Report of that Committee. When the right hon. Member for Wiltshire brought in the Bill which had been referred to, the reason why it was not pressed to a second reading was not so much on account of the opposition to the proposal as from an understanding that the Government intended fairly to apply and carry out the recommendations of the Committee. The recommendations of the Committee included all rates, but the Government had substituted an arbitrary assessment, of which they themselves calculated the terms, and that was the substitute for the larger measure recommended by the Report. There. were two classes of Government property—forts, hospitals, &c., which did not create a pauper population, and docks and barracks, which not only created a pauper population, but polluted and deteriorated a locality by cases of bastardy, disease, and poverty. Such establishments often threw very heavy rates on the population not of the parish in which the Government property was situate, but of the contiguous parish. On the other hand, the Government, by attempting the functions of manufacturers, deprived the localities of the rates those parishes would receive if the work of the dockyards was carried on by private individuals. If the Government were to lease Portsmouth dockyard to private contractors to build ships for Her Majesty's service, the whole of the extensive property would be rated to the relief of the poor; but, under the present system, the Government, although they had a beneficial interest in these buildings as manufacturers, threw the bulk of the rates on the inhabitants of the localities. He could not see, therefore, why the Government should refuse to take their share of the local burdens upon them. The system which had lately been introduced of periodically discharging men from the dockyards and re-entering them, was one that loosened the ties which had formerly existed between the Government and their employés, and it appeared to have been adopted for the very purpose of enabling the Admiralty to repudiate any claims for superannuation allowance that might be made upon them. Only the other day a
 493
 MR. HENLEY  thought that the reasoning of the hon. Baronet conclusively showed that they ought to support the recommendation of the Select Committee. The hon. Member said that private parties consisting of seven in number might form themselves into a company with "limited" stuck to their names and avail themselves of the powers of the Bill. In that case they might get a company of seven persons, with no responsibility at all, instead of private individuals who were responsible for their actions. He (Mr. Henley) thought that was a great change for the worse. He confessed he had not great faith in this legislation—he very much doubted whether it would do any good; but if the Bill passed they ought to give every facility to respectable persons to set up testing machines. They ought to try and prevent a monopoly in these machines, which would be good neither for the buyers nor sellers. He should much prefer to have a substantial responsible man though his name might be "John Brown," than one of those companies that were so readily got up now-a-days with the word "limited" stuck to their names, without any responsibility at all.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the arguments used in regard to the striking out of the words, went upon the supposition that those testing machines were to be private machines. But it should be recollected that the Bill provided that a public officer should be appointed to see the working of this machinery. Therefore, the argument of the hon. Member for Northumberland (Mr. Liddell) as to the Goldsmiths' Company, did not properly apply here. He (Mr. Henley) did not think that this was a bit more private test whether the machinery was erected by an individual or a company, inasmuch as there would be a public officer present to see it put in force. If they were to strike the word "companies" also out of the clause, and leave all these matters to be done by public bodies, there would then be some consistency in the arguments urged; but, at present, he confessed he was at a loss to see any.
 MR. HENLEY : It is no suggestion of mine.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  thought that the clause required no Amendment in this respect. It was the most common thing in the world for a Government officer to superintend the performance of an operation in which the public had an interest. Thus, for instance, a railway could not be opened without a Government inspection. Nothing in the clause indicated that the slightest responsibility was to be undertaken by the Board of Trade or its officers; and, by reference to the 10th clause, it would be seen that any maker or dealer in chains and cables was not relieved from any responsibility which attached to him.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought that this clause was the valuable part of the
 512
 MR. HENLEY  said, he did not object to the Amendment, but doubted whether they ought not to go further. Would it not be better for the right hon. Gentleman to consider the matter between this and the Report, and decide whether it was not desirable that the word "vessel" should be more strictly defined? There was at present no interpretation clause, and he would suggest the introduction of one to define the meaning of vessels.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he should be sorry to see the House admit a legislation authorizing the sale to foreigners of anchors and chain cables that were not deemed fit for our own use. It was like getting up two classes of razors, those for our own shaving being required to cut, but those for foreigners being intended only to sell. If we secured good articles for ourselves, we should give foreigners the game advantage.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  congratulated his hon. Friends the Member for Birkenhead and the Member for Portsmouth, on the great intelligence and zeal they had displayed in this matter. He believed such a measure was much wanted, and it would
 516
 MR. LIDDELL  suggested the insertion of the words "United Kingdom" to meet the difficulty.
 MR. LIDDELL  rose to defend the Amendment of which he had himself given notice, although unfortunately he did not arrive in time to move it. The professed object of the measure was to secure a good article, and that was the reason why he wished to see the Amendment adopted. It was obvious that the testing authority should be an independent body who were wholly above the suspicion of being actuated by any motives of private interest, and for that reason it was desirable that these words should be removed from the clause. The mode of dealing with the precious metals appeared to him to be a somewhat analogous case. The precious metals were assayed by the Goldsmiths' Company, who affixed their stump upon them. The purchaser of gold and silver had therefore the security of such stamp to satisfy him that the article in question was such as was represented. Here the value of a public proof was clearly shown, and there was no reason why a similar arrangement should not be adopted in the case of chain cables and anchors. He hoped, therefore, that the Amendment would be assented to.
 MR. AYRTON  desired to ask his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade, whether he was responsible for this clause, and what its precise effect would be; for it appeared to him that the tester was not to be appointed upon the responsibility of the persons licensed to carry on the testing work, but by the Board of Trade? If that were the case, it followed that those who undertook the business of testing would incur no responsibility whatever as to the cables being what they were represented to be; and practically the responsibility would be thrown upon the Board of Trade or its officer. Supposing that the person appointed by the Government to inspect those chains had given an improper cer-
 509
 MR. AYRTON  said, the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade had not answered his question, and the clause to which the right hon. Gentleman had referred did not meet his objection. The question he put was, Whether the Government intended to undertake the responsibility of testing the chains, &c.; or whether it was intended to continue it as at present, on the manufacturers?
 MR. AYRTON  hoped the words would not be omitted, because if they were, a serious injustice would be done to the very respectable persons engaged in the manufacture of chain cables and anchors. Those manufacturers were in the habit of testing their own work, and sending it forth with a guarantee of its fitness for the purpose intended. Other people engaged in the same trade made and sold bad and unsound chain cables, and it was necessary to prevent the continuance of that evil; but in doing so they should not so alter the Bill as to prevent those who had earned a reputation for doing right carrying on their lawful business. Moreover, in his
 504
 MR. BLACK  asked permission to withdraw the Bill in order to substitute a Bill for the consolidation and amendment of the law on the subject.
 MR. BENTINCK  understood the right hon. Gentleman to say that he considered the omission of the companies would be a better mode of proceeding on this subject. It appeared to him that there would be a difficulty in finding a sufficient number of testing machines. He should certainly be glad to see the proposition of the hon. Member adopted.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, it appeared to him that the Committee had really only one point to decide, and that was in what manner the most efficient test could be established. He had been a Member of the Committee to which the Bill was referred, and he was bound to say he preferred the Bill in its original state, believing that it was better calculated to promote an efficient mode of testing chain cables. But, since then, the position of affairs had become altered. In the first place, they had had the opinion of all the principal chain makers in this country, with but one exception, that the proposed mode of testing these cables was unsatisfactory. Well, then, assuming that which was generally assumed in this country, though he confessed he thought it was an error, that majorities were always in the right, it might be reasonably supposed that the majority of the chain cable makers were the best able to form an opinion as to the most effectual mode of testing the article. But they had the opinion of Lloyds' expressed on this subject—a very high opinion it would be admitted—and Lloyds', as he understood, declined to accept the testing system in the shape proposed by this Bill. The noble Lord the Secretary of the Admiralty had further informed them that the Board of Admiralty were opposed to the proposed system. If, therefore, they were to pass this Bill in its
 508
 MR. BENTINCK  also approved of the suggestion. The question was one of a somewhat comprehensive character. The term "fishing boats" was almost as comprehensive as the term "vessels." The omission of the words "fishing boats" would not be sufficient.
 MR. BENTINCK  remarked that the limit of fifty tons would exclude a very large class of vessels.
 MR. HADFIELD : I rise to second the Motion of my hon. Friend for the second reading of the Bill. Already two Royal Commissions hare been issued to inquire into the state of the administration of the law in Jersey—one in 1846, and the other in 1859. Both of those Commissions hare recommended most important alterations, but as yet none of those alterations have been carried into effect. Some slight and unimportant legislation may have taken place in the Island; but I believe I am correct in saying, that not one of the important recommendations of either of the Commissions has yet been carried into effect by the States. Unless the whole of the inquiries which have hitherto taken place be a farce, it is necessary that something should be done to carry out the recommendations of the Commissioners. The issuing of a Royal Commission is no farce. On the contrary, it is a very serious step for this House to take. The expense of the last Commission was something like £5,000. And, after waiting now for five years, we are in this position; we hare been required to wait until the matter has approached the present stage, and now we are asked to wait still further. I cannot conceive anything more unjust to the Island than the present condition of the law there. In my humble opinion they are not removed from a state of barbarism; they are only adapted to a place to which civilization has not extended. I believe it is a fact that you may arrest a man there for an imaginary debt on the mere  ipse dixit 526 527 528
 MR. HODGKINSON  said, he was quite unable to put any interpretation on the word "resident," and suggested that if it was to be continued in the Bill, they must have an interpretation clause.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he did not desire to impede the Bill, but he thought a measure of this kind should be in the hands of the Government. Perhaps the Attorney General for Ireland would take it up, far if any mistake were made in a Bill of this kind, it might in future lead to great inconvenience.
 MR. LAIRD  preferred the suggestion which had been made by the hon. Member for Liverpool.
 MR. LAIRD  said, that he had sent a copy of the Bill to the principal chain-
 514
 MR. LAIRD  said, he had framed the Bill originally on the Admiralty standard, which had been tried for many years, and been found efficient. It was hardly fair, then, in the right hon. Gentleman to imply that the test adopted by the Government for the protection of ships of war, and troops sent in transports, would not work advantageously for the public.
 MR. LAIRD  said, that since the Bill passed through the Select Committee he had been waited upon by a deputation representing all the large manufacturers of chain cables and anchors in this country, with the exception of one firm, and they were in favour of these particular words being struck out of the clause, although they admitted that it was beneficial to them to have the privilege of testing cables and anchors on their own premises. Lloyds' Committee had also intimated their wish that the words should be struck out, and they had decided that in future they would not accept tests from any private manufacturers, and that all cables and anchors must be certified by a public board. He felt bound to mention these facts; but if it was the feeling of the Committee that
 506
 MR. LOCKE : I rise, Sir, to move the second reading of this Bill. I am hardly aware whether the Government intend to offer to it any opposition or not, but I can hardly suppose they do, inasmuch as the Bill has already been before the House, and they have admitted the existence of the evils which it proposes to remedy. It is precisely the same Bill that was introduced in the year 1861, and I believe at that time it met with the general approbation of the House. It is not my intention to go into the grounds upon which it has been agreed on all hands that a reform is necessary in the Royal Court of Jersey. It would be needlessly taking up the time of the House were I to state the instances which have occurred, and which have, on a former occasion, been brought before the attention of the House, of the great inconvenience which suitors, and not only suitors but other persons who have gone to the Island of Jersey to take up their residence there have been put to in consequence of the law procedure of that Island. I shall content myself with pointing out the recommendations of the Royal Commissioners sent in the year 1859, and which were reported to this House in the year 1860 and the commencement of 1861. Complaints had been made before the sitting of this Commission and also of a previous Commission which sat in 1846. The question was fully gone into in 1846, I believe, as to the Criminal Procedure in the Island of Jersey, and, subsequently, this second Commission was appointed in 1859 fully to consider the laws of the Island, and likewise to Report upon the procedure of the Courts of the Island. The latter Commissioners made their Report partly, as I have stated, in 1860, and fully in 1861; and on the 1st of May, 1861, Mr. Sergeant Pigott introduced a Bill into this House, founded entirely upon the Report of the Commissioners; and, in June of that year, the Bill was read a second time. The Bill which I have now the honour to introduce is precisely the same Bill that was introduced by Mr.
 517 518
 MR. LOCKE : That is true, but if they do not register, an order may be given by the Crown that they must register, and they cannot disobey that order. There-
 519 s d 520 521 522 "I have the honour, at the request of a deputation of influential gentlemen of the Island, who waited upon me yesterday, to transmit the accompanying petition to the Queen, praying for a reform of the constitution of the Royal Court, in accordance with the recommendations of the two last Royal Commissions, and to solicit Sir George Grey to lay the same before Her Majesty. This petition humbly prays that the elections to supply the vacancies on the Bench may be suspended by Her Majesty in Council until measures are taken to separate the Judicial from the Legislative functions of the Jurats, and for ensuring a better administration of Justice. The Petitioners, in accordance with the Royal Commissioners' recommendations — 'that no member of this branch (Jurats) of the Legislative Body should form part of the Judicial Body,' urge that the Jurats should be relieved from the Judicial office, retaining their present positions as members of the States and of the corporate body called the Administrators of the Impot. The petitioners forcibly exhibit that the ancient system of an elected and unpaid Magistracy, fulfilling the double functions of Judges and Legislators, and not qualified by any description of legal training to administer the laws, however well such a system may have been adapted to the times in which it was instituted, is entirely unsuited to the requirements of the present day, and is adverse to the true interests of the Island. The petition contains the names of many of the largest landed proprietors, and of the most educated and influential native and resident gentlemen of the Island; and I am informed by the deputation that all the petitioners, with a few solitary exceptions, are ratepayers; that, moreover, the Island has not been generally canvassed, but that the people have been left to come forward spontaneously and affix their signatures. Sir George Grey will, doubtless, expect me to offer some comments on the contents of the petition. I cannot, for my part, but admit the reasonableness of its scope and prayer, directed, not against individuals, but against a system the working of which appears to have produced widespread dissatisfaction for the Inst thirty years at least, and to have kept this community in a state of agitation for a long period, and which, apparently, will not cease until the recommendations of the two last Commissions are adopted. I am induced to believe that the time is come when the necessity for the proposed change in the judicature of the Island is more and more felt and desired, and that the present conjuncture of circumstances offers a most favourable opportunity for introducing it, by separating the judicial from the legislative functions of the Jurats, and assigning the former to men of competent legal attainments, as the only guarantee for the proper administration of the laws." 523 I am directed by Secretary Sir George Grey to inform you that the Lords of the Committee of Council for the Affairs of Jersey and Guernsey, having taken the whole of the case into careful consideration, would he prepared to recommend to Her Majesty that the prayer of the Petition from the Landowners, &c., should be granted, and to advise the Queen to accept the resignation of these two Jurats, and to direct that their places should not be filled up, on receiving a distinct assurance from the States of Jersey that they are prepared to take the necessary measures for carrying into effect, in whole or in part, the recommendations of the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the Civil, Municipal, and Ecclesiastical Laws of Jersey, with regard to the constitution of the Royal Court. And I am to request that you will inform Sir George Grey what steps the States are ready to take as regards the furtherance of reform in the mode of administering justice in the Island. 524
 MR. LOCKE : The Government expressly state in the letter which they have sent over to Jersey that they approve of the principle of the Bill. In that case I do not see how they can object to the second reading. The reason the Bill was not proceeded with in 1861 was that Sir George Lewis raised an objection, which was that the States of Jersey had not had sufficient time to consider the recommendations of the Commissioners. He thought the Bill came too soon. That objection does not apply now. We have given them three years, and still they have done nothing. The Government told them they must do something, and what have they done? They have simply appointed a Committee for the purpose of devising the means of evading all reform whatever. Under these circumstances, I ask the House to read the Bill a second time, and I am willing to place myself in the hands of the House as to the time when it shall go into Committee. If the Government will intimate that they intend to introduce a Bill themselves—if they will take the labour off my hands, I shall be most happy to resign the duty to them. Indeed, I think the question is one which would be much better dealt with by the Government than by an independent Member. I believe there is not the slightest objection to any one of the enactments of this Bill on the part of the Government. As I have already stated, its object is simply to reform the Court of the Island of Jersey. It does not interfere with the rights or privileges of a single individual in that Island, jut it will give them such a Court as every civilized people ought to have, and will
 525
 MR. J. EWART  suggested, that the word "vessel" should be omitted, and that a provision should be made that anchors of a certain weight should be tested.
 MR. AGAR-ELLIS  moved the second reading of the Bill, The object of the Bill was simply to assimilate the registration and the polling districts, the one being at present regulated by the baronies, and the other not. It also gave the clerk of the peace additional powers, in order that he might carry out the additional duties imposed on him.
 MR. HUMBERSTON  pointed out, that the effect of the clause was to prevent any maker of chain cables or anchors from selling them unless they were previously tested and stamped. The Amendment ho proposed was to limit the clause to all seagoing vessels and coasters. The effect of the clause as it stood would be prejudicial to the trade generally in regard to the manufacture of small anchors for boats and river craft. In the case of boat anchors, for instance, it would press very harshly. The charge for testing was 20 s 513 s
 MR. HUMBERSTON  said, that after the intimation which had been given by the President of the Board of Trade, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. HUMBERSTON , in the absence of Mr. Liddell, moved the omission from the clause of the words "person or persons." The object of the alteration was that the testing machines which were to be established under the clause should be in the hands of public companies or bodies, and not in those of private individuals. He believed it was the wish of the trade generally that such an alteration should be made in the Bill.
 MR. RICHARD HODGSON  expressed a hope that the Committee of the House would not overrule the opinion of the Select Committee upon the point under consideration. The great objection to the supposed working of the Bill was the absence of good testing machinery; it was, therefore, an important object to provide a sufficient number of testing machines. Now, if this proposition were agreed to, it would have the effect of limiting greatly the number of testing machines. There was a discretionary power given under this Bill. No obligation would exist for the erection of testing machinery. A chain manufacturer by this Bill would not be compelled to erect a testing machine, but he would be allowed to do so if he pleased under certain conditions; first, he must
 507
 MR. RICHARD HODGSON  said, that if he had wanted any explanation of the observations of the right hon. Gentleman, he probably should have found it in the memorandum which had been that morning issued by an officer of the Board of Trade Department, which commented on the proceedings of the Select Committee, and also on the provisions of the measure. If he was wrong in ascribing the authorship of the document to that gentleman he was sorry for it; but the gentleman to whom he had particularly alluded was before the Committee, and it was then open to him, and that was the time when he ought to have stated his objections to the Bill, and not privately and by circular after the Bill had left the Select Committee, and still less should he have adopted the course of issuing the circular partially, sending several copies to a Member of
 511
 MR. RICHARD HODGSON  said, he was surprised to hear the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman, because he had looked upon the Bill as a reality, and one that would pass into a law.
 MR. RICHARD HODGSON  said, he could not recognize the propriety of any distinction being made between anchors and chains intended to be supplied to foreigners and those intended for English vessels. All chain cables and anchors should be tested and stamped for whatever service they might be intended.
 MR. INGHAM  suggested that, to prevent misunderstanding, the same words should be employed here as were used in the section of the Mining Act under which Inspectors were appointed.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he did not object to the Amendment.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  thought the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Henley) worthy of consideration, and that it might be desirable to introduce an interpretation clause, describing the vessels whose chains and anchors were required to be tested, on bringing up the Report.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  suggested the propriety of letting the clause stand over for consideration on bringing up the Report.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  remarked, that a chain cable might stand the tensile strain, and yet not be in all respects a good chain.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that as he read the Bill, after a certain time, parties having untested chain cables and anchors would not be able to sell them without the mark; but he hoped the delusion or misunderstanding would not get abroad that this testing would give all the qualities and security required.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : So far as tensile strain went.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  explained. He stated that hitherto the Bill had not been considered a reality, but it had become something like it now.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that the point now raised had been carefully considered by the Select Committee to which the Bill was referred, and they were unanimous in thinking that the same rule, whatever it might be, should be applied equally to persons and companies. They saw no distinction between a private partnership and that description of partnership known as a joint stock company. Any body of persons could, if they thought fit, by adopting certain forms, constitute themselves into a joint stock company; and it seemed to him that the principle of disqualifying private partnerships from being licensed to test chain cables must also extend itself to partnerships known as companies. The Committee considered that they must either exclude both or retain both, and they decided in favour of the Board of Trade granting licenses to companies, persons, or individuals of whom they approved. But there were other considerations which rendered it necessary that the clause should remain as it stood. It was requisite that after a certain date no chain cable should be sold in this country which had not undergone the test of a testing machine, and they ought, therefore, to throw no obstacle in the way of establishing such machines, especially as there might be a doubt whether there would be a sufficient number for the wants of the trade. That was a reason for retaining the words which it was proposed to omit. He thought it would be extremely impolitic to strike them out of the clause, and he should object to their omission. The Select Committee viewed the possibility of the manufacturers themselves testing the chains which they had made or in which they were interested. Security would be given for the efficiency of the test, because another clause provided, first that the testing machine should be certified to be efficient, and secondly that the testing operations should be carried on under some public officer, who should be responsible for their being honestly made. He hoped the Committee would support the decision of the Select Committee, which had fully discussed this particular point.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, this was not a Government Bill, but one brought in by the hon. Member for Birkenhead (Mr. Laird) which had been sent before a Select Committee, and now came before a Committee of the Whole House in its present form. He had not taken any practical part in the matter; but it was thought desirable by the Committee that some public officer should be appointed to superintend the operation of testing, in order to see that it was honestly performed, and that no fraud was committed. In order to provide for the particular difficulty suggested by the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton), he had introduced a clause at the end of the Bill providing that chain and anchor makers, shipowners, &c., should not be relieved by the provisions of the Bill from any responsibility which at present attached to them in respect of any chain cable or anchor made, sold, or used by them. They would, therefore, retain their present responsibility even after the passing of this Bill. Without at all questioning the principle of inspection, he thought it was susceptible of improvement. The Bill had not become a reality till the present time, and they had not viewed it as one likely to become law, but merely as a matter under discussion. It was not entirely matured, neither had it been adopted as, or made in any way, a Government
 510
 MR. O'HAGAN (ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND)  said, as far as he was concerned, he would give any assistance to his hon. Friend he could. The difficulty had arisen from the system of registration in baronies, and as it was occasioned by the Bill introduced by his hon. Friend (Mr. Ellis) himself, he had thought it desirable that that hon. Gentleman should have charge of this Bill. For his own part, he must say he quite agreed with the Bill, and should be quite willing to accept any responsibility with reference to it, or to promote it in any way he possibly could.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  inquired whether the clause would apply to the sale of anchors to foreigners?
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  considered the word "resident" Inspector ought to be omitted from the clause. If it was retained it would tend to prevent the employment of men of a superior class, and would moreover add materially to the expense of the working of the Bill, because it would prevent one Inspector from superintending three or four joint stock or private testing machines in the same neighbourhood.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  then moved the omission of the word "resident."
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, he was sorry that the hon. Member for Huntingdon (Mr. T. Baring) was not in his place, because he was sure he would be able to offer some sound reasons against the adoption of the proposed Amendment. He (Mr. Thomson Hankey) certainly objected to the whole Bill. He objected especially to the retention of the word "companies." The great object was to secure the most independent body possible for the testing of those cables. He did not think it ought to be left to any individuals who pleased to set up a testing machine, inasmuch as it would be impossible to exercise such an efficient control over such persons as over public bodies.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : They may not register the Act.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I beg my hon. Friend's pardon. That is a mistake. The objection of Sir George Lewis was taken to the second reading.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman who had moved the second reading of this Bill was right in anticipating that the Government would raise no objection to the principle of the Bill. He agreed with the principle; but he wished to guard himself against approving all the clauses contained in the Bill, especially those relating to the mode of payment of the Judges, which he thought would require further consideration. As far as the Bill aimed at the reform of the constitution of the Royal Court, a separation of the judicial from the political functions, and the appointment of paid Judges, he approved its object. The hon. and learned Gentleman was not correct in saying that the Bill relating to this subject, introduced two years since by Mr. Serjeant Pigott, was read a second time, because it would be found, upon reference to the records of the House, that the Bill was withdrawn in consequence of objections made to it by the Government upon the ground that sufficient time had not been allowed to the States to act upon the recommendations of the Royal Commission. That objection did not arise now; but until yesterday he would have been disposed to request the hon. and
 529 530
 MR. ADAIR  informed the House, That the Select Committee appointed to try and determine the merits of the Petitions complaining of an undue Election and Return for the Borough of Lisburn, having met this morning pursuant to adjournment, a
 531
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, that a chain re-tested was more to be trusted than one that had never been tried. After a time chains might become worthless, but in well-regulated ships the chains after a voyage were cleaned, put in a dry place, and ought not to be deteriorated.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  suggested that fifty tons might be the limit of the vessels whose chains and anchors should be required to be tested.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  hoped the Attorney General would give the Committee his opinion on the effect of the clause. It appeared to him, that accord-
 505
 SIR MORTON PETO  regarded the object of the Bill to be to give the public a guarantee that chain cables, when sold in the first instance, were made of good materials. To permit the exportation of chain cables without the test
 515
 SIR MORTON PETO  thought the measure imperatively called for, and he hoped it would be applied to all anchors and chains, whether intended for exportation or not.
 SIR MORTON PETO  observed, that at least this guarantee would be given to the public—that the chains and anchors which had undergone the tests were originally made of suitable material, and such as ought to be manufactured.
 MR. CAVE  said, he thought the trade of this country would derive great advantage from foreigners knowing that they could only get good articles here. He rose to ask, whether it would not be better to follow the original Bill, and to exempt ships of war and other public vessels from its provisions? It was well known that the Admiralty and other public bodies had their own testing machines in Government dockyards, and it seemed an unnecessary expense and trouble to oblige chains and anchors made for them to be sent also to a licensed testing machine. He thought the President of the Board of Trade should remember that such vessels were omitted from the former Bill, and were included in the present.
 MR. CAVE  said, he quite approved of the Amendment, and had himself prepared one to the same effect, but he had no doubt that of his hon. Friend would do quite as well. It was absolutely necessary, especially as the first clause had been retained intact, including manufacturers, in conformity with an Amendment he had himself moved last year. The idea of every manufacturer having his own resident Inspector was like a distiller or brewer having his own private exciseman; and it would be impossible for the Board of Trade to work the Act satisfactorily with such machinery.
 MR. JACKSON  said, that the Select Committee were engaged two hours in discussing this clause, and that they unanimously decided that the words "person or persons" should be introduced as well as "company;" because several respectable chain cable makers stated that it would be a great inconvenience to them if they had to send their chains to be tested by a public machine. He should vote for the clause as it stood.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON , in reply, said, the arm in question was well known to the Ordnance Select Committee. There were two or three specimens of it in their possession, and some years ago it was tried at Woolwich. The arm was very efficient for a limited number of rounds, but after that the escape of gas was so great that the weapon would have been dangerous for use. It was possible that improvements had since been made in it. They had no reason, however, to suppose that the breech-loading rifles of the Prussian army was superior to the Westley Richards' rifles, of which a supply had been ordered, and which were to be issued to several regiments for the purpose of trial. There were a great number of difficult questions connected with the breech-loading rifles for the use of the army, and it had been deemed advisable, before the general adoption of any weapon, to have a thorough trial by regiments in all parts of our possessions.
 MR WHITE  said, he shared but partially in the satisfaction with which the Committee generally had heard the able and lucid statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The apparently paradoxical task which the right hon. Gentleman had set himself—namely, to take nothing from the rich, and yet to give a good deal to the poor, was one that had already to a great, extent been performed; and indeed no Government could solve a nobler problem. The policy of the last twenty years, while it had made the rich richer, had left the poor less poor, The right hon. Gentleman had referred to the marvellous results of that policy—a policy which had raised the combined imports and exports of the country from £172,000,000 to the prodigious sum of £440,000,000 a
 603 s d s s s d 604
 MR. HENLEY  said, he had no wish to remark upon the general character of the Budget, which would come before the House on a future occasion; but he wished to advert to the arguments of the Chancellor of the Exchequer in regard to the impossibility, according to his reasoning, of any increase in the consumption of malt if the duty were reduced. The right hon. Gentleman founded this argument on the fact, that thirty-five years ago the beer duty was taken off, and that during those thirty-five years the malt duty had not recovered what the malt and beer duty together then produced. He could not say that the right hon. Gentleman had misunderstood the question, but he had certainly misrepresented it. What was the real state of the case? The parties
 611
 MR. H. BERKELEY  rose to call the attention of the House to the armament of the Volunteer Artillery force. The Royal Artillery were not interior to any similar force in any country in Europe; but they were not a large force and they were scattered over the face of the world. It
 622 623 The Times 624
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that with regard to the Question put to him by the hon. and gallant Member for Aberdeen (Colonel Sykes), he was under some misapprehension with reference to the 20th Regiment. The first battalion of the regiment was doing duty in India, and therefore was not provided for in the Esti-
 625 626
 GENERAL PEEL  thought, that when the House had once voted the number of men, it was bound to vote the money for them; but the first Vote which would be proposed embraced several important points, and he thought it was now too late (twenty minutes past eleven o'clock) to proceed with the discussion of them.
 COLONEL DUNNE and COLONEL DICKSON  also stated, that if the House went into Committee at that time of night, it would be impossible to get through any Votes.
 MR. KINNAIRD  hoped that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not yield to the appeal made to him by the right hon. Member for Dublin University (Mr. Whiteside), in favour of a reduction of the duty on spirits. High moral considerations were involved in that subject, and if there was any part of the Chancellor of the Exchequer's policy which had been especially beneficial to the country, it was his mode of deriving a large revenue from a branch of trade which, instead of being stimulated, ought rather to be subjected to some degree of restraint.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  moved the second reading of this Bill, which with the two following Bills on the Orders of the Day—the Naval Prize Acts Repeal Bill, and the Naval Prize Bill — was proposed for the purpose of consolidating the Acts relating to naval prizes. One point in which it was intended to alter the law had reference to ransom, and it would be left to the Privy Council to decide at the commencement of any war, whether the
 627 pro formâ
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  confirmed the statement of his right hon. Friend (Mr. Whiteside). The learned Judge to whom his right hon. Friend referred, took a different view from the last speaker, for the whole effect of his charge was that the demoralization throughout the whole population was caused through temptation given to illicit distillation. In the recent bad harvests, the corn not being in a state to be brought to market, the rural population had been tempted to use it for the manufacture of a valuable article of commerce. The Judge stated that this should not be viewed as a fiscal question, and he invited magistrates and others to consider it as a moral question; for not only were the persons having an illicit still breaking the law, but they made the whole of their neighbours  particeps criminis
 MR. DUNLOP  rose, as the representative of a constituency largely engaged in the sugar trade, to say that he thought the right hon. Gentleman had adhered to the right principle in dealing with the sugar duties; and he applauded the right hon. Gentleman for having stripped off the pretended disguise of free trade which had covered a system of bounty and premium, whereby the Colonies had obtained advantages which they never would have had if there had been no duty at all. He thought that when the admirable speech which they had just heard had gone over the land, it would produce such an impression that the hon. Member for the City of London (Mr. Crawford) would find little encouragement to proceed with the Motion which he had just threatened. He hoped, however, that the right hon. Gentleman would defer bringing the proposed changes into operation than a longer period of four weeks.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, that while, in common with every Member of the Committee, he had listened with pleasure to the eloquent statements of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he need hardly remind the Committee that what contributed to their pleasure was the studied manner in which all that right hon. Gentleman's speeches were prepared. Every word which he addressed to the Committee was intended to convey its special meaning, and in some instances its special sting. He could not, therefore, forbear remarking on the tone with which the right hon. Gentleman had referred to protection. The right hon. Gentleman thought proper to speak of the subject of protection probably for the purpose of eliciting a cheer from hon. Members below the gangway on his own side of the House; he had thought proper—not to imply—but to assert that there was something amounting to a stigma in the very word, and that it was one of those questions now supposed to be scouted in every part of the world. He (Mr Bentinck) objected to the tone in which the right hon. Gentleman thought proper to deliver himself upon that subject. Now, while he was prepared to admit that disrepute ought to attach and did attach to those who, for personal and sordid motives, had raised the question in this country, and whose political conversion on the subject was so sudden that doubts
 608e post hoc ergo propter hoc 609
 MR. ONSLOW  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether his attention has been called to the vast superiority of the Prussian Breech-loading Rifles in the Danish Campaign, as described in the Letter of  The Times'
 MR. CHILDERS  thought the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bentinck), who complained of the tone of his right hon. Friend with regard to protection, was hardly justified in saying, almost in the same breath, that those who advocated free trade were actuated by sordid and personal motives. He did not rise, however, to answer the hon. Gentleman, but to express the feeling which actuated so many Members as to the satisfactory character of the Budget, taking it as a whole. He thought the reduction of the income tax from 7 d d d 610 d d
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he was disappointed with that part of the financial statement which dealt with the Spirit duties—a question in which Ireland was deeply interested. In 1860 the Chancellor of the Exchequer commenced his unfortunate policy of raising the duties upon spirits. The right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli) had equalized them, leaving them where the most eminent persons connected with the trade in Ireland thought they ought to be left. But the Chancellor of the Exchequer wanted to pay the expenses of a war in China, and so he increased the spirit duties by 1 s d 605 "The Committee will be anxious to hear what is to be said with regard to the spirit duties. We anticipated an increase in the Revenue from the duty imposed in July last on British spirits of £650,000, whereas there has been altogether a diminution in the actual yield of the spirit duty, as compared with the Estimate, of no less than £910,000, or £250,000 more than the whole increase at which we aimed." [3  Hansard 606 607
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he was sorry to have to make any remarks that might appear an exception to the general feeling of satisfaction with which the statement of the right hon. Gentleman had been received; but he could not help expressing his extreme regret
 602
 MR. MAGUIRE  regretted to find that Ireland was but little favoured by the plan of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The right hon. Gentleman had represented that the alarm which existed last year among those who were engaged in the manufacture of tobacco in Ireland was an unreasonable alarm, and took credit to himself for the success of the changes he then introduced; but he forgot to mention that it was the very alarm which was excited and the pressure which it induced that led to the measure turning out a successful experiment, instead of a measure of ruin and confiscation, as it would otherwise have been. Coming to the subject of spirits, he must say for himself that he did not wish to encourage in any way the consumption of ardent spirits; but if people were to drink them at all they should be enabled to have pure ardent spirits, and not poison. He had been informed that to such an extent was adulteration practised in Ireland, that it was positively dangerous to drink,
 612 d 613
 MR. NORRIS  wished to throw out a
 608b Geo Will s s d s s d 608c
 MR. BASS , referring to the Chancellor of the Exchequer's statements respecting the malt tax, said, he thought the right hon. Gentleman had rather understated at £3,000,000 what would be the first loss at a reduction of the tax. The present revenue from malt being £6,200,000, one-half would be rather more than £3,000,000, to which must be added the return of duty paid upon stock in hand, which would be at least a million and a half more. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had, however, wholly ignored the elasticity of the tax, to use a term of his own. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) had clearly shown that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had overlooked some very important considerations in relation to the beer tax, which was removed in 1830. It was not probable that brewing by individuals would be carried to any great extent except in rural districts. With regard to the recuperative power of the malt tax, it had been shown during the Russian war that a high additional rate of duty did not by any means produce a corresponding increase in the amount of revenue, while a reduction of duty was not followed by anything like a corresponding loss of revenue. At that time—in 1854—an additional duty of 2 s 614 quieta non movere s
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he joined the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Whiteside) and the noble Lord the Member for Tyrone (Lord Claud Hamilton) in their expression of regret that the spirit duties had not been reduced. He spoke not in the interest of the distillers, nor on moral grounds, but in the interest of tillage only. In the county which he represented, perhaps more barley and oats were grown than in any other county in Ireland. These kinds of grain were formerly largely used for the purposes of distillation; but the excessively high duties imposed on spirits by the Chancellor of the Exchequer had reduced the cultivation of both barley and oats, and thrown the land out of tillage and the people out of employment. The result was emigration, or a condition of destitution and discontent at home. The right hon. Gentleman was going to reduce the sugar duties, but he ought to take into consideration the case of agriculturists at home. Since 1843 the policy of our legislation had been to impose excise duties on home manufactures equivalent to the customs duties on imported sugars, the consequence of which was that the production of beetroot sugar in Ireland had been entirely annihilated. The foreign manufacturer, for instance, might make 1,000 cwt. of sugar, of which he might sell 900 cwt. untaxed anywhere he pleased, and he might bring only a tenth of the whole manufacture into the London market; but the Irish manufacturer would be exposed to the constant supervision of the Excise, and would have to pay on every pound that he manufactured. How, then, could the Irish compete with the Cuban manufacturer? The right hon. Gentleman had done much to promote freedom of trade;
 608d
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  seconded the Motion.
 MR. MALINS  said, that whilst one part of the Budget had given him entire satisfaction, he must say that he was much disappointed with another part of it. The part with which he was thoroughly satisfied was the proposal for the reduction of the Income Tax, because, though the present proposal was the reduction of a penny only, it was an earnest of an intention gradually to annihilate a tax, which seemed to him on every principle objectionable. But as to the Fire Insurance duty, he thought that the proposal was as unsatisfactory a one as could possibly be made. The right hon. Gentleman, in the face of two Resolutions of the House that the duty on Fire Insurance generally should be reduced, had proposed that it should be partially and most unfairly reduced. In April, 1862, the House, by a majority of 11, gave the hon. Member for Dudley (Mr. Sheridan) leave to introduce a Bill for the reduction of Fire Insurance duty, and in July last a majority of 36 affirmed that the duty
 615 s d s s
 MR CRAWFORD  said, he should not presume to add anything in the shape of criticism upon the comprehensive speech they had just heard from the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He thought the statement of the right hon. Gentleman would be received throughout the country with great satisfaction, and he thought that, on the whole, the mode in which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had dealt with the surplus would be viewed with approval. With respect to the mode in which the right hon. Gentleman proposed to deal with the sugar duties, he thought he would find very many Members—at any rate on that side of the House—who would be disposed to think, with him, that the mode in which the duty was proposed to be dealt with was unsatisfactory. If no other hon. Member would take up the matter, he should be prepared to state on a future occasion his views for a settlement of the sugar question at variance from those of the right hon. Gentleman.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Mr. Massey—With a view, Sir, to gather fully the purport of the figures which I am about to submit to the House, it may be well that we should notice, in the first instance, though in a very few words, the particular circumstances which
 537 538 539 540 541 s d 542 543 544 d 545
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , said, that the proposal to which his hon. Friend (Mr. Caird) had just referred, was made at the suggestion of the trade; but it was a matter on which he thought it quite right that all parties should be heard. By passing the Resolution in Committee, the House would not be bound to the imposition of the duty, and there would be time for a further consideration of the subject before a Bill was brought in. The question was one with respect to which he was in no way prejudiced. He had to observe that the debate of that evening had been rather less of a conversational character, and rather wider in range than those which generally followed the Financial Statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer; but he had no reason to complain of the tone of the discussion, which was very satisfactory to him. After having detained the Committee so long, while making his statement, he would only refer to one or two of the points which had been adverted to. He was sorry that the hon. Member
 617 618 d d d d d
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it would be very difficult to distinguish between that portion of the tax which was likely to be due to the re assessment and that which would be the
 619
 MR. MORRITT  said, he had been asked by hon. Members whether, after the Chancellor of the Exchequer's statement, he meant to go on with his promised Motion relating to the Malt tax. It was certainly his full intention to persevere with that Motion. He did not think the right hon. Gentleman's assertion, that a reduction of the duty on malt would benefit England far more than Ireland or Scotland, was a sufficient argument against the adoption of
 608a
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that having twice voted in favour of reducing the duty on Fire Insurances, he had certainly expected that any measure on the subject would have been general, and not partial. The present duty of 3 s
 COLONEL SYKES  rose to call attention to a recent statement in  The Times Japan Herald 621
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had said that, by reducing the duty on Fire Insurance of stock-in-trade, he wished to try the recuperative force of a reduction in the duty on Fire Insurance. Now it appeared to him, that the experiment was about to be made in the direction from which there was the least chance of suc-
 616 s d s s s s d s
 SIR HARRY VERNEY , in introducing the Resolution of which he had given notice, said, that in 1860 the Government instructed General Crawford to proceed to the French camp at Chalons, and to make a Report upon the work carried out by the soldiers of that army. General Crawford reported that men on attaining a certain age were instructed in some trade, and taught to shift for themselves when placed in difficult circumstances; and suggested as a point worthy of consideration, that something of the same kind might be effected for the improvement of the British soldier. The late Sir George Lewis, on receipt of this Report, appointed a Committee, and it was the recommendations of this tribunal to which he was anxious to give effect. The hon. Baronet having read evidence given before the Committee on this subject, concluded by moving his Resolution.
 MR. CAIRD  said, that that part of the Chancellor of the Exchequer's propositions, by which he stated that lentils and other articles of the same description would be placed in the same position as corn, would not be received with favour by agriculturists. Those articles did not come into competition with corn, but some of them were useful for the purposes of distillation in Ireland and Scotland, and hitherto the right hon. Gentleman had not done much in favour of that class of manufacturers. He trusted the right hon. Gentleman would reconsider the point.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman for further information upon one point respecting the Income Tax. The right hon. Gentleman had referred to the prospect of a new assessment under schedules A and B of the Income Tax in the present year, but he had not stated to the House what was the increase of revenue upon which he reckoned from that source. Judging from the experience of the past, a very large increase was to be expected from that operation; and if the increase on the present re-assessment equalled that realized on former occasions, and corresponded with the advancing prosperity to which the right hon. Gentleman had himself referred, it would probably tend to increase his surplus considerably beyond the sum he had stated of £238,000, and he would not be entitled to point afterwards to such an enhanced source of revenue unless he now should explain to the Committee the amount he calculated to gain from it.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON : I did not presume to say that the right hon. Gentleman had made a fallacious estimate. I asked him to state what he estimated would be the amount due to the re-assessment.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he did not oppose the Bill; but he rose to draw the attention of the noble Lord that the Repeal Act professed to deal with a number of Bills in force since the reign of Queen Anne; but five or six were omitted that should have been included. A number of Acts were also repealed in part, but he thought, with some care, these statutes might be wiped off, and what was valuable put in another Act. Confusion would arise in respect of the Acts repealed in part; they referred to pay and prize, and they were repealed as regarded prize and not as regarded pay. He thought those subjects should be separated. There were six Acts with reference to the slave trade, which might be dealt with in the same way. He thought it very undesirable that the whole of the law with regard to prize should be left to be settled by Royal Proclamation, or Orders in Council, as proposed by the 13th, 14th, and 15th clauses.
 MR. CAVE  said, he should not have risen but for the observations of the hon. Member for the City of London. He thought his hon. Friend a hold man to wish to re-introduce the subject of uniform duties to the House after the speech of the Chancellor, and the luminous pamphlet of Professor Leone Levi, which had been distributed to Members; and he begged to assure the hon. Gentleman that when the subject again came on for discussion he (Mr. Cave) and those who thought with him upon it would be ready to meet him. With regard to the proposed alteration of the tea licences, he reminded the Chancellor of the Exchequer that the borough which he (Mr. Cave) represented, though it was called a parliamentary borough, was as large as the county of Rutland, and remote villages within its boundary were as much country places as any that were to be found in England. There were other boroughs of similar nature. He hoped, therefore, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would take the matter again into his consideration, and introduce some other definition of those small traders who were to benefit by the reduction of the license duty.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  hoped that the House would go into Committee tomorrow.
 MR. MOFFATT , who had given notice "To call the attention of the House to the working of the new Bankruptcy Act, and to move for a Select Committee to inquire and report thereon," said, the House could hardly be aware of the strong feeling that existed throughout the country with reference to the unhappy working of the new Bankruptcy Act. Since he had given notice of a Motion on the subject, his table had been covered with notes, letters, and communications, all complaining of the operation of the Act, exposing the gross frauds which it encouraged, and making suggestions for its amendment, which might usefully be considered by the Committee for which he moved. The transactions governed by the Bankrupt Act had attained an amount so marvellous as scarcely to be measured by figures. Taking the way in which the imports were turned over and over again in articles manufactured, sold and resold, passing from wholesale dealers to retail dealers, and thence to the consumer, in the daily trade of the kingdom, their aggregate value could scarcely be expressed in hundreds of millions. On the authority of an acute actuary, he believed that the amount of insolvency in this country annually exceeded £50,000,000—a sum approaching the yearly expendi-
 681 s d s d 682 683 s d 684
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, though it was not possible to put the Motion to the House, he could assure them that the Government felt that the subject brought forward by the hon. Member was one which deserved the fullest and most searching inquiry. It was the earnest desire of the Lord Chancellor that the bankruptcy system should be thoroughly investigated and understood by the country, and that with the assistance of the House its working might be made as perfect as possible. The Act referred to by the hon. Gentleman contained several useful provisions, and with respect to some of them he believed that it had undoubtedly succeeded, while with respect to some of the others it could not be denied that its effect had not been so satisfactory as was desirable. The House would remember that one most important step in advance was effected by the Bill be referred to the abolition of the distinction between bankruptcy and insolvency. That had been done once and for ever, and he had no hesitation in saying that if nothing else had been effected by the Act, that would still have been an important contribution to the cause of legal advancement. The remarkable figures quoted by the hon. Gentleman were, in the main, attributable to the fact of their having included among the bankrupts those who were formerly classed under the head of insolvents, and also to the fact that prolonged imprisonment for debt was done away with. He regarded as one of the chief benefits of the Act the opportunity it afforded a man of clearing himself in the world and getting rid of the load of debt hanging upon his shoulders. Although a man might not be able to satisfy the demands of his creditors, he believed it to be a benefit to society for him to have the means at his disposal of getting free in the world, and endeavouring for the future to earn his title to a name for honesty. He
 687 formâ pauperis 688 689
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : As I have already spoken, I will promise not to make a speech in answering the hon. Baronet.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : I only thought of giving a simple answer to the question of the hon. Baronet, for I had no idea he would take so wide a circuit over all human affairs. My answer to him is that we did not send out a roving Commission, but having certain evidence—
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : I will simply reply to the hon. Baronet's questions. With regard to his first question, I have to say that, of course, my attention has been called to a step which has been taken under my advice. The hon. Baronet seems to think that the Commission is a roving Commission to discover evidence. That probably arises from the fact that he does not understand the nature of these proceedings. There are persons in Egypt who, we believe, are able and willing to be witnesses for the Crown. Of course, we know perfectly well already what their evidence is, and when we got the Commission we were obliged to give particulars, and we gave a pretty full note to the other side. The hon. Baronet asks how long the investigation will take, and my answer to that is that the Commission is returnable on the 10th of May, which is earlier than the earliest day on which the trial could take place. Therefore, if the arrangements of the Court will permit of the trial taking place after next Easter Term, we shall be perfectly ready, and the Commission will cause no obstacle or delay. As to the expense of the proceedings, I really cannot undertake to say. The Crown has taken the least expensive mode of proceeding. A single Commissioner has been sent out—a consul from a neighbouring country. Of course, if the other side go to more expense, that is a voluntary action on their part. As to why we did not apply for a
 696
 MR. SOMERSET BEAUMONT  said, that the noble Lord had talked of delusions; but when, at the end of last Session, he told Denmark that in case of the invasion of her territories she would not stand alone, he imparted to Denmark what she had since found out to be a delusion. He agreed with what had fallen from the hon. Member for Bridgwater (Mr. Kinglake), and had hoped that they would that night have heard from the noble Lord something to indicate that he meant to represent the feelings of what ought to be the Liberal party on that question—something to indicate that he desired to consult the wishes of the people of these States before giving additional authority to treaties which had been the cause of so much disturbance in Northern Europe. It was difficult to get accurate information as to the state of feeling in Schleswig and Holstein; but, if they read the official papers before them, they could not help seeing that the people of those Duchies had substantial grounds for discontent with their "lawful Sovereign." He thought there was a great deal to be said both for Denmark and for the German Confederation on that question. It seemed to him that a country like Denmark, having attached to it two provinces under subjection to foreign Powers, occupied a very unfair and anomalous position; and he was not surprised that Denmark, with the spirit and courage which she had exhibited, should wish to free herself from a burden that was almost too much for her to bear. And if the noble Lord, instead of seeking to give further authority to treaty stipulations which had produced so much confusion, had sought to withdraw Denmark and the German Confederation from their un
 719
 MR. KINGLAKE  said, he thought that if it should turn out that the Prussians had been guilty of bombarding Sönderborg in the manner described, and that the bombardment had taken place without provocation, they would find no defenders either in the House of Commons or in any part of the United Kingdom. But he would take leave to say, on the present occasion, something analogous to what he took the liberty of saying when the House was dealing with the affair at Kagosima. He then said that before passing a censure upon Admiral Kuper, it would be well for the House to hear in the first instance what Admiral Kuper might have to say for himself, and he thought the result in that case, which he now knew, entitled him to hold that the course thus suggested was the proper one to take. Certainly, he should be sorry to abandon the hope that the Prussians might have something to say either in disproof or in extenuation of an act which at present seemed to be highly discreditable to them. He could not agree with the hon. Member for Liskeard (Mr. Bernal Osborne), in endeavouring to pass a censure upon the Government for refusing to enter into the Congress proposed by the Government of France; nor could he concur with him in thinking that there was any analogy between that case and the present, because the objection which the Government took to going into a Congress was founded upon the supposition that the parties invited to send representatives could
 712 713 714
 GENERAL PEEL : I rise merely to say that the subject before the House is not a fit subject for ridicule. There is no portion of it at which the British House of Commons has any reason to laugh. The hon. Member for Swansea asked whether it was true that Sönderborg was bombarded without notice, and eighty of its inhabitants killed. He was followed by the hon. Member for Liskeard, who asked very proper questions, some of which have not been answered at all. Then the noble Lord got up, and the world will hear of the House of Commons being convulsed with laughter. I say that is adding insult to injury. The noble Lord at the head of the Government said there was nothing in the blue-books that could lead the Danes to believe they might expect assistance from this country. I am afraid there is a great deal that will not be found in the blue-books; but I well remember the words used by the noble Lord himself at the end of last Session, when he said, that if the Duchies were invaded Denmark would not stand alone. I thought at the moment that that was a very indiscreet declaration for the Prime Minister to make, but I entirely relied on it. I was abroad during the recess, and when I heard Germans talk very angrily about enforcing their claims against Denmark, I used to say, "Take care; we are bound to resist it." But their reply was, "Oh, no; you will not resist. Denmark
 715
 LORD EDWARD HOWARD : I am glad to hear it, and I trust, then, that this will be a caution in future to the hon. Member as to the company in which he trusts himself, and the use to which he allows himself and his name to be put by others. We all hear of young men coming to the metropolis and there being taken advantage of by designing persons; but I should hardly have expected that a Gentleman of the age of the hon. Member would get into such a position as this. Allow me, Sir, in the most friendly way, to suggest to the hon. Member, that if he has not been prudent hitherto, he should henceforth take care that he is not led by others into such a position as to be made the medium for advancing, if not of countenancing, accusations of the most flagrant and unfounded character. In a further part of this letter—I am not quoting the words—the Duchess of Norfolk is accused by direct implication of the murder—the prospective murder—of her daughter, by immuring her in a certain convent into which she had gone. I should not, of course, think of saying a word in refutation of that. That young lady is my niece; and this I will say, that I never saw any person more anxious to enter a religious order than she was to enter the one which she has adopted. She was perfectly aware of the practice of that order, and she was most anxious to attach herself to it, I am quite sure, and all Catholics know, that there are many young women who could never be happy in the tumult of the world, but elect of themselves to enter a convent. This was the case with my niece; and no young woman ever took that step or any other with a greater prospect of happiness, Mr. Smee then goes on to say, "Your grace stood by the grave of my relative as the cold clay, sod by sod, was thrown upon his noble form, in a sort of ecstasy at the music of the  requiem. 655 656
 LORD EDWARD HOWARD : Sir, I would willingly have been spared intruding myself upon the House on this occasion. I beg to observe that in anything I may say, it will be remembered I speak in defence. I, and those connected with me, have been attacked, and it is proper I should defend my family from the charges brought against it. No one can deprecate more than myself the introduction of discussions on religious subjects into this House; but if they are to be brought on at all, they ought to be conducted in the same manner as other discussions, and to be accompanied by the same gentlemanlike feeling and propriety of bearing which characterize all the proceedings of the House, and which are more or less adhered to in all ranks and conditions of life. Even prize-fighters shake hands before they begin their contest, and give some semblance of an adherence to formality and decorum. In the present case, however, there has been manifested a most remarkable want of that propriety, inasmuch as a violent personal attack has been made upon a family to whom I am nearly related; but not one word of previous intimation has been given to me on the matter, and the broadest assertions have been made by the hon. Member for Warwickshire, without any attempt at proof. Not only have the hon. Gentleman's calumnies been aimed at the gentlemen who lived at the Oratory, but they have been, by implication, extended to myself. I feel sure that the House will, with its usual generosity and kindliness of feeling, permit me to reply, which I wish to do in no strenuous manner, to the slan-
 651 652 653 "But the high position of your Grace's family has been used to assist the schemes of the members of the Oratory, to obtain his money from his family."
 LORD EDWARD HOWARD : I ask the hon. Member whether, in using the phrase "disingenuous and tortuous practices peculiar to Roman Catholics," he meant to apply it to me? [ Cries of
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether, as tobacco juice for sheep-dressing is allowed to be made at Glasgow from tobacco free of Duty, he will allow the same privilege to be granted to parties applying there for in Dublin, Belfast, Cork, and the other principal ports of Ireland?
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he wished to know, whether the increased scale of salaries has received the recommendation of the two Chief Inspectors?
 MR. LEFROY  said, he would not enter upon the question of the amalgamation of the two societies, but would simply state that he believed they had been of great advantage to the people of Ireland. The present position of affairs was, however, most deplorable. There were fine collections of natural history scattered about the rooms and covered with dust, and many valuable books of the society had to be stowed away in the rafters for want of fitting accommodation. He hoped no delay would take place on the part of the Government in settling the question.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he must beg to state, in answer to his hon. Friend, that Her Majesty's Government had received Reports from our Consuls at Boston, Port-
 629
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, the primary question before the House was, whethe-those two institutions should be amalgamated. The Royal Commission had re-
 679 680
 MR. NEATE  said, that the hon. Gentleman the Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate) was not, in his opinion, fairly open to the charge made by the noble Lord the Member for Arundel (Lord Edward Howard), that he had brought on the present Motion without due notice. He had had no communication with the hon. Member, but he knew all the circumstances of this case, and that it would be brought forward; and the noble Lord himself seemed to know more about it than the hon. Member. It was no sufficient legal reason for setting aside a will that such will had been made under religious influence. The only question was whether such cases as that brought forward by the hon. Gentleman were sufficiently numerous to call for legislative interference; for, as the law stood, he believed it was quite possible to bring to bear upon a dying person religious influence which it might be found difficult to resist, and which might result in great injury being done to the relatives of a testator. He thought that, so far from deserving blame, the hon. Member for North Warwickshire was entitled to the thanks of the House for calling attention to an institution which in his opinion, in this and other similar instances, deserved the just reprobation of the House.
 MR. NEWDEGATE : I knew nothing about the letters.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  [ amid renewed cries of and Cries of
 MR. NEWDEGATE : I beg your pardon, Sir, if I have erred; but I have been misrepresented, and I beg to explain that the Motion I submit to the House is a Motion for an inquiry into Monastic and Conventual establishments, and it is substantially the same as those which have been repeatedly supported by majorities in this House. ["No, no!"]
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said: Mr. Speaker, it will be in the recollection of those Members of the House and of the Government, who were present here at the close of last Session, (I mean during the two last days of the Session,) that I gave notice of my intention to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department, with respect to the circumstances under which the right hon. Gentleman had granted a licence for the Use of a certain piece of ground at Sydenham, for the purposes of burial by a religious community known as the Oratorians, who possess an establishment at Brompton, and declare themselves to be of the Roman Catholic order of St. Philip Neri. In order that I might have an opportunity of entering into an explanation of the circumstances which had led me to think it my duty to put this question (the statement of which appears to excite some feelings of irritation among Members on the other side of the House, and on this side of the House, who are connected with the Roman Catholic body), I moved the adjournment of the House. This afforded the right hon. Member for the County of Limerick (Mr. Monsell), and the hon. and learned Member for Dundalk (Sir George Bowyer), an opportunity to speak, and the right hon. Member for Limerick thought fit to accuse me of having hounded to death a Mr. Turnbull, who had been appointed one of the Calendarers in the State Paper Office, but was afterwards removed, through the intervention of the noble Lord at the bead of the Government, at the instance of a large number of gentlemen, who thought that Mr. Turnbull's antecedents, particularly as connected with certain Roman Catholic publishing societies, were not such as to render it advisable that he should be continued in that office. This House being summoned to the House of Lords for the purpose of prorogation, prevented my then replying to the accusation which had been levelled against me, but in a letter, which after the close of the Session I addressed to the right hon. Member for Limerick, and which appeared in  The Times 634 Gazette 635 636 637 638 639 640 641 "Allow me now to present to you, by means of statistics, a rapid view of the effect produced by these different measures. The Census gives the population in England— 
 
 For the year 1831 13,896,797 
 For the year 1841 15,914,148 
 For the year 1851 17,927,609 
 For the year 1861 20,066,224 an increase of about two millions in each decennial period from 1831 to 1841. The population,
 642 643 Les Jesuites en Ces bons Messieurs de St. Vincent de Paul Instructions secretes des Jesuites 644 645 646 "The Government (of Italy) is not induced to promote the suppression of religious houses by motives of hostility or anger, but by the conviction that the nature and effects of such institutions are repugnant to the spirit of the times, and burdensome to the new political and economical position of the nation, against which tendency the Government, and you yourselves, gentlemen (addressing the Italian Parliament) desire to guard yourselves in tranquillity, and free from the prepossessions of party."
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he rose to explain. He believed the law to be totally inefficient in the present case.
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, he believed that the country had been deeply disappointed that the House had so far abdicated its functions as not to have raised a discussion on that question since it met in February. He was extremely disappointed at the tone adopted by the noble Lord that evening, and also on a former occasion. The noble Lord told them that Austria and Prussia had commenced a most aggressive, unjust, and unnecessary war. The noble Lord also said that he considered we were bound, as parties to the Treaty of 1852, to guarantee the integrity of the Danish monarchy. Now, if the opinions of the noble Lord were that it was the duty of Her Majesty's Government to guarantee the integrity of the Danish monarchy, and if he believed that Austria and Prussia had commenced a most aggressive and unjust war, he (Mr. Peacocke) was very much surprised that the noble Lord did not, in opposition to his policy as displayed in the blue-book, give active aid to Denmark. He (Mr. Peacocke) did not advocate a war policy, for this reason—because he believed that Denmark was originally in the wrong, and that she had never put herself in the right. But he thought it most impolitic that the noble Lord should come down and use such strong and aggravating expressions towards Austria and Prussia at the very time that he was about to meet them at the table of a conference, with a view to settle the dispute in an amicable manner. If the noble Lord's language towards those Powers had been more conciliatory, it would have rendered more likely the attainment of a practical and pacific result. He believed that these Conferences would have no result at all, and for this reason. In the papers before the House, Denmark distinctly told them that she would make no concessions whatever—that she would agree to nothing like a union between Schleswig and Holstein until she was utterly exhausted. On the other hand, the German Powers distinctly told them that they could not consent to treat on the basis of the engagements of 1851–2. He regretted that the noble Lord had not felt it his duty to state whether it was true or not that the French Government had communicated to Her Majesty's Government the fact, that it intended at the Conference to advocate that which was virtually the principle of an appeal to nationalities by universal suffrage? The noble Lord stated that all the Powers which had accepted the Conference had agreed to the mainte-
 718
 COLONEL EDWARDS  said, he -would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether Sub-Inspectors of Factories must be at least twenty-five years of age before being appointed; whether it is true that the new scale of salary to be paid does not give them any annual increase of pay, but requires thirty years of service before the scale of £500 a year is reached, and limits the recipients of £500 a year to two Sub-Inspectors out of twenty; and whether it is true that the allowance for personal expenses when absent from home is only 12 s s
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he must complain of the extraordinary conduct of the Government in relation to the matter under discussion. The Royal Commission appointed by the Government had recommended a grant of public money amounting to only £10,000, in order to put a most valuable public institution in efficient working order. Notwithstanding which, the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth (Sir Robert Peel) had now thrown overboard the Report of that Commission, and had proposed to refer the whole subject to the investigation of a Parliamentary Committee. That, in his opinion, was one of the most extraordinary proceedings in the present extraordinary age of which he had ever heard. Even the right hon. Baronet had said that the con-
 677
 MR. SPEAKER : If the hon. Member has been misunderstood on any point an opportunity of explanation is afforded to him. But he cannot go beyond explanation.
 MR. SPEAKER : It is only by the express permission of the House that the hon. and learned Gentleman can again address it, ["Go on!" "Go on!"]
 MR. SPEAKER : By the indulgence of the House, the Attorney General was replying to the hon. Baronet.
 MR. J. R. ORMSBY GORE  said, the Government having increased the allowance towards the maintenance in County and Borough Gaols of Convicts sentenced to Penal Servitude from a maximum of 4 s s
 MR. VANCE  said, he must complain of the tone of the hon. Member for Galway (Mr. Gregory) and of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth (Sir Robert Peel), for they had both prejudged, to a certain extent, the recommendations of the Committee which it was proposed to appoint, when all they had to do was to make out a case for inquiry. The hon. Member for Galway had hardly spoken of the Royal Dublin Society with the same
 678 in extremis
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to a telegraphic despatch which appeared in  The Times 697 The Times "The Prussians have bombarded Sonderborg for forty-eight hours without any previous intimation. Eighty townspeople, women, and children, have been killed or wounded. Fifteen hundred shells have been thrown into the town, which is deserted. The cannonade suddenly and completely ceased this morning; it has, however, recommenced. The Danish position is uninjured." 698 699
 MR. DILLWYN  explained that he had said that he thought Denmark was wrong in the first instance—in the first quarrel—but that the conduct of Prussia was unjustifiable.
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  said that, as a Roman Catholic, he could not allow the observations of the hon. Member for North Wilts (Mr. Long) to pass without expressing the contempt which be felt for them. The hon. Member for North Warwickshire was a follower of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli). If the hon. Member had studied the speeches of his political leader, he might have seen in one of them a maxim which it would have been well for him to have borne in mind on the present occasion—namely, that "insolence is not sarcasm, and that violence is not invective." [ Cries of
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : I was under the impression that the hon. Gentleman would have contented himself with a simple protest; but, like the lion lashing himself into a fury with his own tail, he has imitated the example which was set him in another place, to the horror of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who was thinking of his surplus, which we disposed of, or shall dispose of, I hope, last night [ Laughter 700 5 Sir Charles Grandison 5 701 5 702 5 pi`ce de resistance 5 703 5 704 The Times 705 bonâ fide The Times 706 "Indeed it is to be apprehended that questions arising from day to day, coloured by the varying events of the hour, would give occasion rather for useless debate than for practical and useful deliberation in a Congress of twenty or thirty representatives, not acknowledging any supreme authority, and not guided by any fixed rules of proceeding." 707
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Sir, when I first read the notice of the very proper question which has been put by my hon. Friend, I had no idea that it was about to lead to such warlike results. The question is a natural one for a Member of the House of Commons to put with reference to what appears to be an outrage on humanity, and I had hoped that my hon. Friend, although he was somewhat confused in his argument, because he began by saying that he was against Denmark, but that, somehow or other, he was opposed to the Prussians.
 MR. R. LONG  said, that as his hon. Friend the Member for North Warwickshire was precluded, by the forms of the House, from replying, it was due to him that some hon. Member should stand up in his behalf, and say that nothing was further from his intention than to state anything that could be construed and twisted even by the disingenuous and tortuous practices of Roman Catholics into anything savouring of disrespect towards any member of the noble family of Howard. His hon. Friend's Motion was directed,
 660
 MR. MALINS  said, that having been a strong supporter of the Bill of 1861, he was sorry that it had not worked more satisfactorily. But he entirely agreed with the Attorney General that the failure was mainly owing to the powers given to the creditors' assignee and the non-appointment of a chief Judge. His own opinion was so strong, that when the House of Lords declined to sanction the appointment of a chief Judge, he had recommended the Lord Chancellor to abandon the Bill altogether, rather than fail to secure the coherence and the one uniform system which a chief Judge alone could give, and which alone could make the Act successful. It was now high time the House should take the matter in hand, and revert to the principle sanctioned by it in 1861, but unfortunately rejected by the other House. He was glad to have a Committee, for the principle of the Bill
 690
 MR. O'HAGAN (THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND)  said, that the observations made by the bon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Oxford City (Mr. Neate) required a reply, and he thought it not unbecoming that he should give one. It had not been his intention to have interfered at all in the discussion, especially after the touching and beautiful address of the noble Lord the Member for Arundel, but that he had the honour and happiness of knowing some of the Members of that Community which, to adopt the words of the noble Lord, had been
 657 658 659
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, that he was glad the noble Lord had put the question, as it might, perhaps, draw the attention of parties interested to an arrangement with which it was possible they might not be sufficiently acquainted. The Treasury had extended the privilege to which the noble Lord had referred, and which was originally granted by way of experiment to a particular individual, to tobacco manufacturers and other persons who might apply for it in Glasgow, Leith, or any other port at which tobacco might be legally imported, under the regulations laid down in the first instance, and on condition that suitable premises were provided, and that the Crown
 630
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, the object of its first and most important clause was, to provide that all stock received by the Commissioners for the reduction of the National Debt, either on account of Life Assurances or on account of Deferred Annuities, should not be cancelled as it was under the provisions of the present law, but should be held by those Commissioners and kept alive, and dividends received upon it, so that there should be an adequate fund to meet the prospective obligations on those annuities or assurances when they arose.
 MR. FERRAND  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he has received Mr. Rawlinson's Report on the state of the Bradford Reservoirs; if so, whether he has reported them to be safe; if not, which are reported unsafe; and, in the event of any of them being unsafe, whether the Government will take immediate steps to protect those persons whose lives are endangered;
 631
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he should be glad to know whether when Mr. Rawlinson's Report is sent in it will be laid on the table?
 MR. GREGORY , who had given notice to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the Scientific Institutions of Dublin which were assisted by Government aid, said, that after the division which had just taken place it was not, he believed, possible for the Speaker to put the Motion which it had been his intention to submit to the House. What he proposed, therefore, to do was to take the discussion on his Motion at once, and if the Government should signify their readiness to assent to it, then to move for the Committee,  pro formâ 664 "Some advantage would be gained if all the Parliamentary giants in aid of science and art al Dublin were included in the estimate of the Royal Dublin Society, and were paid through its medium inasmuch as they would annually be brought under consideration in one point of view, and the council of the Royal Dublin Society would have an opportunity of making any representation which the circumstances of the time might render proper in reference to them." 665 "We submit the evidence taken by us, but it is proper to add that in the conclusions at which we have arrived we were partly influenced by a variety of documentary information as well as by our own knowledge of facts." "That the Royal Irish Academy regards with surprise and alarm the suggestion contained in the Report of the Commissioners of Inquiry respecting scientific instruction in Ireland, that the academy should be placed under the superintendence, and to some extent under the control, of the council of the Royal Dublin Society. "That the Commissioners appointed by the Treasury to inquire into a number of scientific institutions, including this Academy, have made the above recommendation without examining any of its officers, or even notifying their intention of taking evidence affecting its interests. "In fact, the objections to such an arrangement felt by the members of the Royal Irish Academy are such as would be felt by the members of the Royal Society of London to a proposal to submit them, in any degree, to the control of the Society of Arts. "That the Academy entirely dissents from the opinion expressed in the Report of the Commissioners, to the effect that real public benefit would ensue from affiliation of this Academy to any other society. "That the only other reason assigned by the Commissioners for an innovation which would thus compromise the honour and interests of an important national institution is an alleged official convenience of the most inconsiderable kind." 666 "That the consolidation of the Museum of Irish Industry and of the scientific lectures in the Royal Dublin Society would be considered, as regards industrial education, a reversion of the original intention, and of the policy which has been pursued for the last eighty years in Ireland." "As to the provincial lectures, his Excellency recognizes the merits of the system described in the Report as successful in England, but doubts whether Ireland is yet sufficiently advanced to receive it with advantage, and that it is more fitted to produce mediocrity in the many than high acquirements in individuals." 667 "It is a matter of great surprise and regret to the society that Government should have deemed it necessary or economical to have established in close proximity, and for nearly similar objects, such an Institution as the Irish Museum." "What I said was, that in my opinion, and in the opinion of the Government, the Committee had not been impartially constituted. I referred to the position occupied by many hon. Members on it." 668 669 670 "It exhibits the remarkable fact that the students of Irish schools, numbering only 374, were successful in obtaining 149 prizes, and 12 out of a total of 689 prizes and 34 medals." "There are, certainly, collections at the Irish Museum illustrative of the manufactures of porcelain, glass, iron, and various clays, which are of no practical value as there are no manufactures in Ireland." 671 "It is dangerous to measure the industrial character of a country merely by its present condition. The remarkable circumstance mentioned by Sir R. Kane in his evidence of the German chemists finding occupation in the manufacturing establishments is a practical commentary on the importance of giving facilities for high industrial education, and his Excellency cannot but feel that it would be highly advantageous if young Irishmen were trained to fill such places, a career which has already been opened to one or more students from Stephen's Green." "That collections made by geological surveys ought not to be left together, but that all fossils should be brought together and arranged according to their zoological affinities without reference to where they came from." 672 "They do not profess to be a scientific body nor to endeavour to enforce the vigorous co-operation of the lovers of abstract science. They do not see why the co-operation of eminent men of science should be estimated more highly by the Government than that of the landed professional and mercantile gentry of Ireland, with whom the society originated.' " "That the new Professor should possess a thorough knowledge of mineralogy, geology, zoology, conchology, and comparative anatomy; he should also be practically acquainted with coal and metallic mining." 673 674
 MR. MURRAY  said, that in seconding the Motion, he wished to raise no objection to the principle of the Act of 1861, which he thought was a good one; but he did object to the mode in which the Act had been administered. Returns of the business in Bankruptcy during two years ending October 11, 1863, had been laid before the House, from which it appeared that 18,133 persons had become bankrupt, and of this number only 1,546, or 8½ per cent, had paid dividends. Of the 18,133 only 1,442 were made bankrupts by their creditors, while the remainder went to the court of their own motion. Upon looking to ascertain what became of these bankrupts, he found, that of the gross number he had mentioned, 12,844 had had their discharges granted, 913 or 5 per cent, had their discharges suspended, and only in 276 cases or 1½ per cent, were the discharges refused. Comparing these figures with the calculations made by the Attorney General in introducing the Bill of 1861, it was clear that, under the old system, certificates were refused to a greater extent than discharges were now withheld from bankrupts. The law, too, as at present administered, would not, unfortunately, reach many of the dishonest debtors. Every Commissioner exercised a separate judgment, and there was no
 685 s s d s s d s d s d 686
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  said, he must beg leave, in asking the Question of which he had given notice, to make a brief statement of facts. Two months ago a gentleman at Kingston-upon-Thames received a letter from his son, dated New York, January 22, in which he expressed himself as extremely well pleased with his ship and his captain, under whom he had served with great comfort for eight years. A few days ago the father received a letter from his son's captain, dated New York, March 11, saying—
 "We arrived at this port on the 20th of January; your son was missing a few days after. He went on shore a little the worse for drink, and has not since returned. I fear he has been kidnapped by some of the runners of this port, and sent to sea… I have forwarded his effects to the Board of Trade, in London.… You will obtain all information about effects, &c., at —, Mark Lane."
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, the statement of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth would relieve the question of a great deal of difficulty. He had intended to second the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Galway. He felt that one of the institutions in question had not been fairly dealt with. The Government had agreed to contribute towards the erection of a new museum on ground belonging to the Royal Dublin Society, but the building was still in an unfinished condition. The shell had been erected, but all the internal fittings, the glass cases and other arrangements necessary to display the objects and specimens in the possession of the Society were wanting, and the educational means at the command of the Society were thus rendered valueless. In 1861, Captain Donelly, who had been sent over to Dublin by the Government on a mission of inquiry, reported in favour of making a grant to the society, but suggested that the constitution was not so perfect as it might be. Immediately afterwards the society were informed by the Treasury that the introduction of the changes proposed by Captain Donelly might be made a condition of the continuance of the public aid given to the institution. From that day to the present not a farthing had been given to the society, notwithstanding their frequently expressed readiness to assent to every condition which the Government might think fit to impose, and notwithstanding also that the Commission, appointed subsequently to the mission of Captain Donelly, had re-echoed his recommendation that a grant should be made. The Society had shown the utmost readiness to comply with the recommendations of the Commissioners. A special Committee to consider the changes to be made in the constitution and powers of the Council had been appointed; the Society agreed to adopt them; and, if the alterations in the constitution of the society had not been completed, it was only because the society had been requested by the Treasury not to proceed further, as the Government wished to institute an inquiry with respect to the proposal of amalgamation with the Mu-
 676
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he would occupy the attention of the House for a few minutes only. One of the allegations of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire was that the Christian name of Father Hutchison inscribed on the tombstone was not the name by which he was baptized. The fact was that Father Hutchison changed his name at confirmation, or rather added to his existing name that of his particular patron saint. And he must tell the hon. Member for North Warwickshire that the law of England allowed any person to change his name at confirmation. If he would look into the highest legal authority,  Coke upon Littleton
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he should think there could be no objection to presenting it.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that Mr. Rawlinson had not yet made his detailed Report of the result of his inspection of the Bradford Reservoirs, which are eleven in number, but he intended to do so as soon as he could. He was at present engaged in his other duties. He had, however, informed him (Sir George Grey) that in two out of the eleven Reservoirs—Doe Park and Bradfield—the embankments were imperfect, but, the water having been drawn off while they were repairing, there was no present danger, and the corporation undertook that they should not be filled again till they were made properly safe. All the rest Mr. Rawlinson deemed to be sound.
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in reply, said, it was certainly not intended to detain convicts sentenced to penal servitude for a longer time than at present in county or other local prisons; but, on the contrary, it was hoped that they would be kept there for a shorter time. In consequence of the increase of penal servitude sentences in 1861–2, it was difficult to provide for the convicts in the Government prisons, and some of them were therefore detained longer than usual in the local gaols. Last year, however, there was some decrease in the number of penal servitude sentences, and it was expected that arrangements would be made to remove convicts from the local prisons at an earlier period than hitherto.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied, that it was required by the Factory Regulations that Sub - Inspectors should be at least twenty-five years of age at the time of their appointment. The new scale of salaries recommended by the Chief-Inspectors, and submitted to the Treasury, would not give an annual increase of pay; but there were five classes, the lowest begining with £300 a year, with an increase at the rate of £50 per annum in each case, after a certain number of years' service, and reaching £500 after thirty years' service. It was true that only two could be at the same time in the highest class. As to the allowance for expenses, Sub-Inspectors received in addition to their travelling expenses, 12 s
 SIR GEORGE GREY  believed it was adopted on the joint recommendation of the two Chief Inspectors.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that could only be so if the Court should decide that no undue influence had been exercised upon the mind of Mr. Hutchison. If undue influence of a spiritual nature were exercised
 650
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, it appeared to him that the petition of Mr. Smee, which had been printed upon the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman opposite, the Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate), upon which this Motion was founded, did not in itself afford sufficient reasons for the appointment of the Committee which had been asked for. He must express the same opinion with regard to the correspondence which had taken place between Mr. Smee and the Home Office which had been laid before the House. At the same time, he could not but sympathize with that gentleman's feelings when he found that a near relative with whom he had been brought up on terms of intimacy, and with whom he afterwards became closely connected by ties of marriage, had been induced to change the religion in which he had been brought up, and to adopt the creed of a Church from which Mr. Smee, no doubt, conscientiously dissented. Referring to the oilier circumstances mentioned by the hon. Gentleman, it was much to be regretted that a youth imperfectly instructed in the truths and doctrines of his own Church should, on his first entrance into active life, be exposed to the influence of a man of deep learning, great persuasive powers, and very attractive manners, such as was the late Dr. Faber; but he scarcely thought the House could be recommended to agree to a Committee for the purpose of considering and suggesting measures to counteract such influence. The only practicable way of counteracting that influence would be by taking care that, as far as possible, the youth of this country should be well grounded in the doctrines and truths of their own Church before sending them out into the world, and should thus be better enabled to resist such influence. Having said this, it appeared to him that the hon. Gentleman had wrongly interpreted the object and effect of the Act for the regulation of Burial Grounds, an Act which was framed entirely on sanitary grounds, and solely for the pur-
 648 649
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether, at the Conference about to assemble on the affairs of Germany and Denmark, the interests of the inhabitants of the Duchies of Holstein and Schleswig will be represented and protected?
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he would not presume to give any answer to the question which was addressed to the noble Lord with respect to the bombardment of Sönderborg. He feared that the reply had been by no means satisfactory. He wished, however, to give an explanation which he had seen as to the cause of that bombardment. He had seen it stated in a Hamburg paper, that there was an understanding between the Danes and the Prussians that there should be no bombardment of Sönderborg or of West Dybböl, as the latter contained the sick and wounded of the Prussians, and the former was full of women and children. But, subsequently, a Danish officer was sent with a flag of truce to say that the Danes were going to bombard West Dybböl, and the reply was, "If you do so we will bombard Sönderborg." He did not defend the bombardment, because he believed it added to the horrors of war, but he was merely giving the account which he had seen in a paper from Hamburg, and there was one circumstance which made him hope that account was true. Hon. Gentlemen would recollect that about a month ago a shot was fired at a Danish vessel, and it went into Sönderborg. Immediately a flag of truce was sent by the Prussians to say that it was a mere accident, and the Danes were asked to take care that their vessels should not
 716
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, he rose to order. If the Attorney General by the rules of the House could not fully answer his questions, he would rather take another opportunity of raising the question.
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, he rose to call the attention of Mr. Attorney General to—
 "A rule obtained for a Commission to examine the Pacha of Egypt and other witnesses at Cairo, to obtain evidence against the Steam Rams detained at Birkenhead; and to ask how long this investigation is likely to take, and the probable expense of it: Whether the trial of the Birkenhead iron-clads will be postponed from May next, until this information be obtained: And, why this rule was not applied for when the vessels were first detained?" "I said to Mr. Adams that the most stringent orders had been given long ago to watch the proceedings of those who might be suspected of fitting out vessels of war for Confederate purposes; that if there were six vessels, as it was alleged, fitting out in British ports for such purposes, let evidence be forthcoming, and the Government would not hesitate to stop the vessels, and to bring the offenders before a court of justice; and that Mr. Adams was no doubt aware that the Government must proceed according to the regular process of law, and upon sworn testimony." "When the United States' Government assumes to hold the Government of Great Britain responsible for the captures made by vessels which may be fitted out as vessels of war in a foreign port, I have to observe that such pretensions are entirely at variance with the principles of international
 691 onus probandi "Gentlemen,—Referring to your ready acceptance of the offer of Her Majesty's Government to prevent any attempt at the forcible abduction of your property, the iron-clad vessel now nearly completed at Birkenhead, and understanding that the trial trip which has been the subject of former correspondence has been abandoned, I am directed by the Lords Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury to acquaint you that, from information which has been received, it has become necessary to take additional means for preventing any such attempt." "In the first place, Her Majesty's Government are advised that the information contained in the depositions is in great measure mere hearsay evidence, and generally that it is not such as to show the intent or purpose necessary to make the building or fitting out of these vessels illegal under the
 692 bonâ fide one "In my belief, it is impossible that any nation retaining a proper degree of self-respect could tamely submit to a continuance of relations so utterly deficient in reciprocity. I have no idea that Great Britain would do so for a moment." "But law, as you are well aware, is enforced here as in the United States, by independent Courts of Justice, which will not admit assertion
 693 "Now, what is the duty of a neutral in regard to two belligerents, and what are the rights of neutrals? The American Government have laid down the position for themselves, because they have declared that a neutral is at liberty to furnish a belligerent with anything that the belligerent may choose to buy, whether it be ships, arms, or anything else. I cannot, in the abstract, concur with my hon. Friend in thinking there is any distinction in principle between muskets, gunpowder, bullets, and cannon on the one side, and ships on the other. Those are things by which war is carried on, and you are equally assisting belligerents by supplying them with muskets, cannon, and ammunition as you are by furnishing them with ships that are to operate in war." Gibraltar 694 Germania 695
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, it might tend to curtail unnecessary discussion if, in the absence of his right hon Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he announced at once that the Government were prepared to agree to the Committee for which the hon. Gentleman the Member for Galway (Mr. Gregory) had just moved. He had no doubt that the result of the full inquiry which would take place as to the character of the institutions in question would be to place them in a different position from that which might have followed from the decision of the Commission of 1862. He agreed in very much which had fallen from his hon. Friend, but there were two points in which he was in error. His hon. Friend had repeatedly declared that the Government were desirous of making Dublin a provincial town and of destroying the Museum of Irish Industry by amalgamating it with the Royal Dublin Society. He was totally unaware of any such designs being entertained on the part of the Government in regard to Dublin, and he could state that they had come to no decision whatever with respect to the amalgamation of the two museums. It was true that the Commission of 1862 had in their Report recommended such a proceeding, but the Government had not resolved to adopt it. He owned frankly that the feeling against amalgamation was very strong in Ireland; and that, for his own part, he had never approved of the recommendation of the Commission. From the first he had deemed the constitution of the Commission rather singular, and he thought that the result of the inquiry was very partial; for, while several representatives of the Dublin Society had been examined, no one had been examined on the part of the Museum of Industry It was under that conviction that the Government were now willing to grant the Committee. The objects of the Royal Dublin Society and of the Museum of Irish Industry were quite separate, the former being, as he might say, exhibitional, while the other was intended to give education for industrial purposes. He should be very sorry to see the latter lose its dis-
 675
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, it is difficult to satisfy my hon. Friend, for he finds fault with the past, with the present, and with the future. I shall not, therefore, attempt to alter his opinions, but shall simply answer the questions which have been put to me. Now, Sir, my hon. Friend accuses Her Majesty's Government of having misled Denmark, and of having excited expectations which have not been fulfilled. I utterly deny these allegations. There is not a syllable in the blue-books with which my hon. Friend pretends to be familiar, but which I cannot believe he has read, which bears out the assertion he has made. Our policy, Sir, has been plain and simple from the beginning, and, as I think, honourable throughout. Our object has been first of all to prevent war, and, hostilities having commenced, to restore peace. My hon. Friend says we have thrown over the Treaty of 1852. No such thing. Again, I say my hon. Friend has not read a word of the blue-books, for there is not a syllable in them to justify such a statement. On the contrary, not only do we maintain the Treaty of 1852, but every one of the Powers who concluded that treaty equally maintains it. Therefore my hon. Friend must have been in a dream on this matter, and comes down here to expound his illusions, instead of telling us what he would have discovered if he had perused those documents which seem to weigh so much on his mind, but to dwell so little on his memory. My hon. Friend has fallen into some of those contradictions which men of his genius and imaginative powers are occasionally apt to stumble into. He has critized the Conference, and very naturally, being of an inquisitive turn of
 708 uti possidetis status quo ante bellum 709 710 sine qua non 711
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I can assure my hon. Friend that the interests of the people of Schleswig and Holstein will be sufficiently cared for. In the first place, there will be in the Conference a representative of their lawful Sovereign; and that Sovereign, no doubt, will have equally at heart the interests of all his subjects. In the next place, there will be in the Conference the representatives of the two German Powers who have taken up arms on the alleged ground of enforcing engagements connected with these two Duchies. Thirdly, the Diet will, we hope—but no answer has yet been received—be represented at the Conference, and although the Diet has nothing whatever to do with the Duchy of Schleswig, that not being a portion of the Confederation, the representative of the Diet will take good care of the interests of the Duchy of Holstein, which is under the Confederation.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he wished to give notice, that in the event of his not being able to get Votes to-night
 789
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, that supposing they agreed to the Committee without a division, he should at a future period propose the Committee to the House, and, in doing so, should follow it up by asking for leave to send for persons, papers, and records. He thought it desirable that the Committee should examine such gentlemen as Sir A. Spearman, Mr. Chadwick, Mr. Scudamore, Mr. Tidd Pratt, several actuaries, and three or four gentlemen connected with Friendly Societies and Industrial Insurance Offices. He should like that evidence to be distinctly taken and printed for the benefit of the House, so that they might be assisted to come to a decision on the subject.
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he rose to make a few remarks on the subject of recruiting for the army. It might appear to some that the question was one of those respecting the discipline of the army with which that House ought not to interfere, but the recruiting for the army was governed by an Act of Parliament, and it was to the effect of that Act he wished to draw attention. He regretted that a Return for which he had moved had not been laid upon the table, because it would have shown whether the alarm which had been expressed with respect to the working of the Limited Enlistment Act was well founded or not. On a previous occasion, the Under Secretary for War had stated that the War Office had no alarm whatever on the subject, because there were only about 4,000 men who would claim discharges on expiration of service during the year. For his own part, however, when he looked at the manner in which it was proposed to meet the requirements of the service, he confessed he felt the greatest possible alarm. If it was necessary in time of peace to reduce the standard of the army by one inch—in other words, if the ten years' service men were to be replaced by recruits of a lower standard—he thought things could not be regarded as in a satisfactory condition. He did not mean to say that good men could not be got at 5ft. 5in.; but his alarm arose from the War Office being obliged in time of peace to resort to a measure which ought to be reserved for some great emergency. Nor did he believe it to be absolutely necessary to reduce the standard at the present moment. Additional men were not wanted for the Artil-
 810 811
 COLONEL DUNNE  thought it extraordinary that the War Department remained ignorant of the fact known to every officer of the army, that there were something like 20,000 men whose period of service expired in each year. They had no right to calculate upon these men re-enlisting, and there was not an officer in the service who would not recommend that the first enlistment should be for twelve years for the line as well as for cavalry and artillery. The suggestion of the right hon. and gallant Member who had just spoken, for securing a more intimate and advantageous relation between the regular army and the militia, was one well worthy of the attention of the Government. It was one of the most important subjects that could engage their consideration. As things stood, a great number of men were discharged from the army, perhaps without a pension, and then spread discontent where they resided. At any rate they were entirely lost to the service. As the ten years' men were not sent out to India with their regiments if they had only a year or two of their term to serve, and as a year or a year and a half was required to make soldiers of them, it was clear that the country enjoyed but a short period of efficient service from them. If these men who could not be sent out to India were transferred to militia regiments, they would improve the efficiency of the militia, and be retained in the service of the country. The capitation rate was, he thought, a very bad bargain for this country. He noticed at page 12 of the Estimates, an item of £44,500 for the clothing of two Indian regiments in China. He wished to have some explanation of that item. The whole of the clothing system was in a most unsatisfactory state. No army in Europe was clothed in so expensive a manner as ours;
 812
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, that when he found that there was a reduction of only £215,000 upon an expenditure of nearly £15,000,000, and that the supplementary Estimates for the embodied militia amounted to a much larger sum, he thought they could not look with much favour upon the economy of a Government, the Chancellor of the Exchequer of which had, the other night, given them so severe a lesson upon the subject, especially when they found that that economy was accompanied by the reduction of 1,500 men belonging to the most valuable portion of the service. In the War Office the increase for clerks was £4,000, and in that monstrous establishment 409 clerks were employed at an average salary of £270 a year. There were
 828
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that the proportion of men to horses in which the reduction was being made was the proportion previously existing in the cavalry, so that if it were wrong, then it must have been wrong before. He quite admitted that at the War Office they were
 829
 COLONEL NORTH  said, the noble Lord seemed to forget the fortifications, and how they were to be manned.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : By the militia and Volunteers.
 COLONEL NORTH : The militia and Volunteers! Oh, oh!
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he wished to ask the reason for the increase of the Vote for fire brigade, musketry warders, works in the field, &c., from £500 in the last year to £3,700 in the Estimates before them.
 THE MARQESS OF HARTINGTON  said, his only explanation was that he supposed the sum taken last year was not found sufficient.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, that the Vote stood upon the Estimates at £1,352,047.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that was one of the Votes alluded to by the noble Lord at the head of the Government, when he stated that the extra cost involved in calling out the Yeomanry would not cause an increase on the total Estimates. The Vote had been reduced by £33,000—a reduction warranted, as the Government thought, by the accounts from New Zealand. That reduction was chiefly in the items for commissariat transport to the colonies, which was taken at a very high rate indeed, because while the army was actively engaged in New Zealand, the cost of transport was enormous. There might be a considerable saving on the Estimates which had reference to war in New Zealand, although the war might not come to a conclusion for some little time. The Estimates were framed on a supposition that the war would continue over the whole of the financial year; and though the war was not yet at an end, there was reason to believe that it would not last for more than a year from the date of the last accounts, which dated hack for a considerable period. The Government had estimated that the war would continue to April, 1865, and its cessation before that period would cause a corresponding decrease in the Estimates.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said he wished to ask, what was the reason of the great increase of £46,000 in the cost of forage?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, an explanatory paper had been published on the subject of the increased price of provisions in certain parts.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he could not tell the exact number of horses there, but there could he no doubt that forage was very scarce, as it had been found necessary to send out a certain kind of it from this country.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, the original Estimate was framed on the supposition that the war would last for three quarters of a year from that month, but later advices had led them to believe that it would be concluded in a shorter time.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he knew no reason why the Vote should always appear in its present gigantic form. It certainly could be more easily discussed in separate items. He was quite prepared to point out how an extensive economy might be practised; and if the noble Lord would turn his attention to the various items he was sure a reduction of £500,000 might be made in the Vote. He regretted very much the intention to make a reduction in the number of the Royal Artillery. The line might, perhaps, be reduced to a small extent, but a reduction of the Royal Artillery affected the most important element in the service; and yet this was, it seemed, to be attempted for the sake of a miserable economy. It required two or three years to make even an intelligent man a good gunner. When the last attempt of this sort was made, many of the men went into the Life Guards; but, of course, the experience they had gained as gunners was not of much use to them as cavalry soldiers. If the noble Lord desired to weed the Artillery he should take care not to lose efficient men. Why was it that our service was deficient in staff knowledge? The fact was that we had not selected a sufficient number of men from the higher ranks to receive instruction in staff experience, but in consequence of the arrangements now being carried out we should have a class of staff officers second to none in Europe. In the Peninsular war, no doubt the staff was equal to all the service it was called to fulfil, but they were placed under the direction of a great captain. The expenditure on that branch of the service might not appear to be useful at the moment, but at a critical moment, and in the present state of Europe no one could tell how soon that time might arrive, its use would be made apparent. The Crimean war was a war of siege and not of campaign, and there was no movement of troops there which could teach a single lesson. He approved very much of the establishment at Aldershot, which was an excellent strategic position, for troops could be transported thence to the most important points on the coast in a few hours, and on that very ground it was singled
 819
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he rose to reply to the questions he had put to him. As he did not then see the right hon. and gallant Member for Huntingdon in his place, he would defer for a time his reply to the observations of the gallant General, as he hoped to be able in some degree to calm the apprehensions which he entertained in regard to the probable effect of the Limited Enlistment Act. The hon. and gallant Member for Queen's County (Colonel Dunne) asked what was the meaning of the Vote for pay and clothing for certain native Indian troops. The fact was, that the Home Government did not pay the expenses of these regiments in detail. The Indian Government sent in the account and the amount was paid in a lump sum. It had been alleged that the great source of extravagant military expenditure was the establishments. That was a very vague term, but he had a Return of the expenses of what he might call the establishments, and he had ascertained that the commissariat staff eost£l04,000; clothing staff, £24,000; barrack staff, £53,000; purveyor's staff,£28,000; stores, £218,000; War Office and Horse Guards, £202,000; and the chaplains, if they could be included in the list, £50,000, making in all £679,000. That was, no doubt, a large item, but not so great as the sweeping assertions which had been made would lead one to imagine. It was obvious that any reduction in the establishments would not make much impression on the total amount of the Estimates. He should be glad if any hon. Gentleman would inform him whether he had omitted any establishment from his list, and how any diminution could be effected. Reference had also been made to the depôt battalions which had been described as one of the most extravagant parts of our system. It was, no doubt, a question well worthy of discussion, whether some more economical system could not be devised, and he did not know any on which the attention of gallant Members could better be bestowed. He had not, however, as yet heard from them any practical suggestions on the subject, or, indeed, anything more than wide general statements.
 820 s d s d s d s d employés 821 s d
 COLONEL NORTH : Not with respect to infantry officers. The date of the order applicable to them is the 16th of October last.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, the deduction had been made in the case of cavalry officers ever since 1815, and it had only been extended to infantry officers when the latter received the advantages for which it was originally enforced. The hon. and gallant Member had also asked him a question with respect to cooking. In reply, he had to stale that the greater part of the item—£1,460—would go in extra pay to sergeants-instructors, of whom there were now 170, and the number was being increased. A considerable saving had been effected in the article of fuel, chiefly in consequence of the improvements made in cooking, which improvements were mainly due to the exertions of the sergeants instructors. The hon. Baronet opposite (Sir Henry Willoughby) suggested that the Vote might be very advantageously subdivided, He did not exactly see how. A great many of these items were very small, and they were given in great detail.
 822 823 824 825 826
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he wanted to know whether the supplementary Estimate of £40,000 for the yeomanry, was the exact sum that appeared in the original Estimate. The ground upon which the noble Lord had consented to call out the yeomanry was that the war in New Zealand was nearly at an end, and he should like to hear whether the sum of £40,000 was the saving from that cause.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he wished to call attention to a recent regimental order, which he could only characterize as a piece of contemptible economy. It appeared that the veterinary surgeon at Aldershot, who looked after the horses of the staff and the mounted officers of regiments, had applied for assistance, and that, after a long correspondence, an assistant was granted to him, who was to receive 1 s d s s
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that the increase in the item for forage was due to the high price of it in New Zealand. There were commissariat branches in all parts of the world, and the officers had a variety of duties to perform, and the amount referred to by the hon. Member for Lambeth was very reasonable.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, the chief reduction was in the item for commissariat transport. There was further a reduction in the cost of forage for the colonies, and also in the charge for provisions.
 ADMIRAL DUNCOMBE  said, he thought previous notice ought to have been given of the reduction of an Estimate.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he had tried for the last three or four years to obtain from the Government the prices at which the army was clothed, but he had never received any satisfactory reply on that point. He believed the reason was that the accounts were not kept as they ought to be. The system of a great central establishment for clothing the army was a very costly one, and that, under the existing system, the clothing for the army cost double what it otherwise would. Mr. Hume used to find fault with the system of Government establishments, and used to protest that, except in special cases, Government should not undertake any manufacture. He wished to know whether the accounts of these establishments were kept on any system, and whether the noble Lord could state the prices of the articles manufactured?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  admitted that the sum required for new buildings in Pimlico was very large, but those buildings were finished, and he could not see how it could be more economical to hire buildings when they had got what they wanted. It was said they could not tell the cost of any article; but they knew the cost of materials and the other expenses, and, therefore, they could calculate the cost of the articles made. Since they had manufactured clothing themselves, the cost of that portion which was still got from contractors was materially diminished. In 1859 the contract price of a private's tunic was £1 1 s s d
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he was surprized to hear complaints of the clothing, as he had thought that if there had been any improvement in any department of the army, it wan in the clothing. When he established the Pimlico manufactory he believed experience would prove what it had done, that by that means army clothing would be produced both better and cheaper. He thought that the Royal Artillery had always made their own clothes.
 835
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he believed that the establishment at Pimlico clothed 30,000 men, besides the Irish constabulary and the London police, but he did not think that one establishment would be sufficient to clothe the whole army. Although he did not object to a moderate establishment to operate as a check upon contractors, he deprecated too large an establishment as uselessly expensive.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, that the duty required from the English soldier was much more than that required from the foreign soldier. He would also observe that if there was one thing more than another which would give offence to officers and soldiers in the army, it would be interfering with the buttons and facings of their uniforms. Civilians had no idea what were the feelings in the army on that subject, and he therefore hoped the day was far distant when the Government would interfere in such matters.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, there had been no alteration in the Pimlico staff. Some of the store clerks had been removed, and absorbed in other de-
 836
 COLONEL NORTH  asked, to what cause the saving in the use of fuel, referred to in the Vote, was to be attributed?
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he wished for an explanation of the alteration with regard to the payment of the ranger of the Curragh of Kildare.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that as the Curragh had become a military station, it was thought better to transfer the charges to the military department, instead of continuing them with the office of Woods and Forests. The Curragh, up to that time, had hitherto been held by the Crown at a nominal rent, but now it was proposed to take a lease of the property. In answer to the question of the hon. and gallant Member for Oxfordshire (Colonel North), the saving in the fuel had been effected partly by the use of improved grates in the barracks, and, still more, by better management in the cooking department. The plan of allowing the men a profit upon the price of the fuel burnt under the regulation quantity had in many cases been eminently successful.
 COLONEL NORTH  asked the amount of the pay and allowances of the Inspector.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, the Inspector's (Mr. Marriner's) salary was £150 a year, and his travelling expenses actually expended. Captain Ross, Assistant Quartermaster General at Aldershot, who was not exclusively employed in the cooking department, was included in the general staff, the expense of which, when completed, would be about £1,750.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he hastened to dissipate the very natural apprehension of the Committee by stating at the outset that he did not intend to follow the noble Lord through the able but
 849 850 851
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, he thought that the worst thing that could happen would be the introduction of an extra legal authority into courts-martial. He trusted that the time would never come when regimental or military courts-martial would be conducted by other than the colonel of the regiment; for, however much courts martial were blamed for their decisions, it generally turned out that they had been right after all. He hoped they had heard the last of the court-martial on Colonel Crawley. The continued discussion of the question was calculated to have a very deleterious effect upon the discipline of the army.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, that when the subject was formerly before the House, he had expressed his opinion that in ordinary cases justice was well administered by courts-martial, but that the legal machinery of the Judge Advocate General's office was not sufficient to conduct such a trial as had lately taken place. At the same time, he could not admit many of the statements which had been made as to the manner in which that trial had been conducted; but that was a subject he would not go into at that time. It might be very easy to say that no legal assistance should be given, but he did not see how it was possible to preclude it. The whole subject of courts-martial was under consideration, and every effort would be made to place it on as sound and satisfactory a basis as possible.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to consolidate and amend the Church Building and New Parishes Act.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the Bill wag recommended by a Select Committee and the same as introduced last year. It would not in any way interfere with church rates. The law would be left as it stood. If any Amendments could be suggested he would be most happy to consider them.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he so far agreed with his hon. and learned Friend that this was no party question, and he hoped the House would not make it so. It appeared to him not to be irregular but in the highest degree regular and proper that the evidence taken by the
 856
 SIR HERVEY BRUCE  said, he was of opinion that the evidence could not be produced, because no one was in a position to say that the inquiry had been completed.
 MR. NORTH  said, he considered it would be advisable to print the real facts that had come out during the inquiry, because they had already appeared in the newspapers in a garbled form. The House might possibly, on receiving the evidence, address the Crown for a Commission to inquire into the corruption of the borough.
 MR. CARNEGIE  observed, that when the hon. Member for Longford drew a comparison between the French army and ours, it should be recollected that the French army was raised by conscription and ours by voluntary enlistment. The French army, therefore, had a much larger number of skilled mechanics than our own. He had always found there had been ample employment for all tailors and shoemakers in making alterations and repairs, without setting them to actual making of regimental clothing. If the clothing were attempted to be made in the regimental workshops, he believed it would not be attended with good results. He quite agreed as to the advisability of rewarding efficient non-commissioned officers, but he did not see how the introduction of the system of manufacturing in regiments the clothes to be worn by the soldiers would at all tend to that desirable end.
 MR. CARNEGIE  said, he wished to call attention to the item with regard to clerks. The military store clerks appeared to have been got rid of and pensioners employed in their stead.
 MR. LYGON  contended that the evidence and the proceedings altogether of the Committee were all null and void. No action could be taken by the House except on the Report of the Committee, and in that case there was no Report. The Minutes ought to be laid before the House, because grave inconvenience might follow if that were not done. Upon that ground he was anxious that they should be produced, so that then they might take action, in order to prevent the recurrence of a similar failure of justice. He would move, as an Amendment, the omission of the words "and the evidence taken before."
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to move for the appointment of a Committee of Inquiry into the operation of the Highways Act, previous to introducing further legislation on the subject, or any amendments of the said Act?
 LORD HOTHAM  said, he wished to know whether the noble Lord intended to limit himself to-morrow night to asking for a Vote on account, or whether he proposed to take his chance of the double event of getting a Vote in Supply and taking a Vote on account?
 LORD HOTHAM  said, he desired to say a word upon the Limited Enlistment Act. The opening observations of the noble Lord upon that subject had afterwards been materially diluted by the statement, that in consequence of the number of men who might claim their discharge at the end of their period of service, the Secretary for War had thought it necessary to offer inducements to these men beyond those to which they would have been previously entitled. The inducements that would have to be given, would depend very much upon the service on which the men were engaged. One of the objections which he had always entertained to the Act, that it might be the cause of the country being taken by surprise by great numbers of men leaving the army at times when it was very inconvenient to part with them, had, at length, been acknowledged by the Go-
 827 s
 LORD HOTHAM  said, that although he could count a length of service in the House, only exceeded by that of the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government, and, he believed, by that of two other hon. Members, he could truly say he had never risen with so much reluctance as he felt on the present occasion. That reluctance proceeded from many causes, but he would trouble the Committee with, only two—one was, because the question was one of military discipline, and
 837 838 839 840 The Times "I believe I can assist Mr. Bouverie in describing the document bearing on the Mhow Court Martial which he asks the War Office to produce. Two memoranda, emanating from the Horse Guards, have been read by Colonel Crawley to the assembled officers of the 6th Dragoons. They are, therefore, clearly not private letters, but public documents, which the House of Commons is entitled to see. The first of them is dated December 18, 1862, and has been published; the second, which was communicated by Colonel Crawley to the regiment at Mhow about the end of April or the beginning of May, 1863, is probably the document which Mr. Bouverie wishes to elicit. I have a  resumé "The only document which at all answers the description of it given by my right hon. Friend
 841 post mortem 842 "In addition to my report of yesterday, I have the honour to add that it has been brought to my notice that the deceased was in the habit of drinking a considerable quantity of brandy daily while in arrest, and on inquiry I find this to be true. It is my opinion that this, in conjunction with the other exciting causes before stated, was calculated to increase the predisposition to apoplectic seizure of which he died." 843 844 845 846 "Had Sir Hugh Rose been better acquainted with some of the facts of the Sergeant Major's case, he would have taken a different view of it." "Clandestine, unsoldierlike, and improper proceedings of the three non-commissioned officers might be fairly interpreted by Colonel Crawley into a conspiracy." "Evidence in proof of a cabal on the part of the three non-commissioned officers having been already forwarded to the Horse Guards." "Had, on more occasions than one, acted with great impropriety, and want of discipline; that he was not by any means the superior non-commissioned officer described by the Commander-in-Chief to have been." 847 "An official, recorded, and public proof of his misconduct already forwarded to the Horse Guards." "Objectionable and opprobrious language, in presence of other non-commissioned officers, towards Colonel Crawley." "Hoped that there might be some mistake as to the use of those beastly and abominable expressions against his commanding officer, which had been attributed to him." "The character of Sergeant Major Lilley for sobriety and good conduct, previous to his arrest, seems to have been undoubted. 848 "It is in this manner that the authority and influence of Commanders-in-Chief are to be maintained in the eyes of their subordinates, and whether such treatment of such men is compatible with the well-being of the English army, or the safety of the Indian Empire."
 LORD LOVAINE  observed, that the recent trial had shown the great inconvenience of the present procedure; because words had been placed in the mouth of an officer attributing injustice to one of the highest military authorities in India, and folly to another. With reference to the speech which had been read by the prisoner in this case, that it was quite clear, from a note that subsequently appeared in  The Times
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he gave a preference to the system of clothing adopted in the French army, where the materials were supplied to the different regiments and manufactured by the men themselves. The result was that the clothes of the French soldier were of better materials than those of our troops—they fitted better, and were supplied at a more economical rate. In the Sanitary Report on the Indian army it was proved that the men suffered very much from the misfits of shoes sent out by the contractors. He would press on the Government the advantage of employ-
 833
 MR. O'REILLY  said, that although reduction could not be well looked for that year, he had no doubt that a proper, well conducted inquiry would lead to very considerable economy in the general expenditure on the Army Estimates; but instead of reduction he saw symptoms of their increase. In the observations he was about to make, it might appear that he differed from two axioms laid down by high authorities. The first was that of the right hon. and gallant General opposite (General Peel), that the cost of the army might be taken to be, in round numbers, £100 per man; but he presumed the gallant General did not mean that such was the necessary calculation, but only that of late years it might be accepted as a fact. If they went on as at present, he believed the gallant General would agree with him that the expenditure would not be limited to £100 per man. The second maxim was laid down by the late lamented Secretary of State for War, that there was nothing whatsoever to be gained by a comparison with other services. He could not agree that a careful comparison in particular items between the administration and management of the French army and our own would be altogether futile. The totals were certainly sufficiently striking. The British army might be taken in round numbers to consist of 147,766 men; the number of horses, 13,693, or one horse to every 11 men. The total estimated cost was nearly £15,000,000; but if they deducted Votes 8, 9, 10, and 11, for auxiliary forces, £1,209,509; Vote 14, for fortifications, £73,000; Vote 16, for surveys, £88,345; and Vote 27, for disembodied
 813 s d s recrutement et réserve s d s d s solde et entretien des troupes s s s service de marche s s s d s s s d 814 s s s s d s s s d s s s s s 815 s s d s s s s s d s s s s d 816
 THE MARQUESS HARTINGTON  said, they hoped to be able to get a Vote in Supply that night, but if they were not able to do so, he would ask the House to give them a Vote on account.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he should be glad to promote any proceeding which might lead to practical legislation on the subject of Insurances for the working classes, but the question before the House was not whether they should legislate for the evils that had long existed in regard to the conduct of Assurance Societies, but whether they should at once pass the Bill of the Chancellor of the Exchequer without any inquiry, and without satisfying themselves by any authentic means or evidence of the reasonable character and necessity for passing that Bill. He was in favour of the proposition of the hon. Gentleman opposite for a Select Committee. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had thought proper to make important statements involving very grave imputations upon existing institutions. No doubt hon. Members connected with those institutions would be able to defend whatever admitted of defence in the conduct of their affairs, but he was bound to ask himself whether, supposing the statements of the Chancellor of the Exchequer were true, they afforded
 790 791 792 793 794 795 s s 796 797 798
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, there would be a difficulty in comparing the items with those of the last and of the next year, if no new Estimate were prepared.
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  urged the Government to prepare an amended Estimate. He believed the cost of the New Zealand war had been much underrated, and at the end of the year it would be found to be nearer a million than half a million.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he wanted to know the items on which a reduction had been made.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he took the same view. He would also observe that the charge for provisions was very high.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he believed it to be the opinion of many French officers that their own system was a bad
 834
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, that taking the number of men in the Estimates, and dividing with them the cost of the clothing, it gave a sum somewhat less than £4 for each man. He, however, admitted that that was not a fair way of arriving at the individual cost.
 MR. HORSMAN : I hope the noble Lord will excuse me, but I am afraid I have not made my question quite intelligible. I know, of course, that the Government would adhere, in whatever course they may adopt, to the principles and practice of the Constitution; but my question has reference to the practice of the Constitution so far as this, that the Crown exercises its prerogative under the advice of its responsible Ministers, and that those Ministers act under the control and advice of Parliament. I therefore wish to know whether Her Majesty's Ministers, before tendering their advice to the Crown, will give Parliament an opportunity of considering it?
 MR. HORSMAN : Is there any case of exceeding instructions?
 MR. HORSMAN : Sir, I have a question to put to the noble Lord at the head of the Government with respect to the coming Conference on the affairs of Denmark. I assume that in the Conference our representative may undertake certain engagements on the part of England which will not be valid until ratified by the Crown in the exercise of its prerogative under the advice of its responsible Ministers. The question I have to ask is, Whether Ministers, before they determine upon the advice they shall give to the Crown, will submit such engagements to the consideration of Parliament, so as to obtain the consent of Parliament before they advise their ratification by the Crown?
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, it was then a misfortune that so great a master
 807 808 s d
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he rose to say a few words on behalf of certain societies to which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had made allusion on more than one recent occasion in that House. The right hon. Gentleman had indulged in a series of observations regarding these societies which the House was little accustomed to. He stated that the Professional Society had transferred its business to the European Society, but that, in order to make themselves safe, the European made it a condition that the amount of liability should be inscribed on each policy, in a manner and under circumstances which the right hon. Gentleman described. This, the Chancellor of the Exchequer said, was no better than wholesale robbery. And wholesale robbery it would have been if there had been a particle of truth in the right hon. Gentleman's description of the transaction. The Chancellor of the Exchequer went farther, and said that a good many of these proceedings were worse than wholesale robbery, and that many persons who had never seen the inside of a gaol were fitter to be there than many a rogue convicted ten times over at the Old Bailey. Did the right hon. Gentleman apply this to the European?
 MR. MACDONOGH  said, the subject was one of considerable importance. He did not object to the production of the proceedings of the Committee, but resisted the production of the evidence as a thing unheard of and illegal. The Committee had not reported the evidence to the House, and, therefore, it would be irregular to lay such evidence before them. No sufficient reason had been urged for the adoption of the Motion. The proceedings of the Committee, and also of that House, with reference to Election Committees, were regulated by statute, and Mr. May's excellent work stated that the House had parted with its functions by the passing of the Act 11  Vict
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he believed that the measure was intended to secure the payment of church rates in certain parishes. He thought that the Attorney General ought to explain its objects before he asked for leave to introduce such a Bill.
 MR. HUNT  said, he thought that the whole question of the administration of military law required investigation. The present system worked well enough in ordinary cases, but, as had recently been proved, it broke down under unusual pressure. The duties of the Judge Advocate, he thought, wanted revision, for it was his duty to advise the prosecutor, whilst, at the same time, he was legal assessor to the tribunal that had to adjudicate on the matter. Surely a person who acted as assessor should not be connected with the prosecution; and probably it would be better to have a legal assessor to give his assistance to the court. It was also desirable that the practice of writing out questions should be done away with, and that witnesses should be subjected, when necessary, to a sharp cross-examination. There was another point as to the assistance given to a prisoner by legal gentlemen. If legal assistance was allowed to be given, why should it not be regularly recognized by the Court? In the case of Colonel Crawley, he was reprimanded by the Court for putting a certain question to; a witness, and he was obliged to explain that the question was not drawn up by him, but was first placed in his hands by the; gentleman who sat next to him—his legal assistant. Then the prisoner had to read a long defence, which was written for him by a legal gentleman the day before; but he did not see why, when the defence was to be made, the legal gentleman should not make his speech as in any other court. He thought the whole question of sufficient importance to be dealt with by a Royal Commission.
 MR. HUNT  said, he hoped that the noble Lord would take care that the Votes were amended in consequence of the favourable news from New Zealand.
 MR. HUNT  seconded the Motion.
 MR. HUNT  said, he hoped the hon. Member for East Worcestershire would withdraw his Amendment. This was a very anomalous and exceptional case. The evidence was complete. The sitting Member was not in this country, but his father, who was in the House, was anxious that the evidence should be printed.
 MR. HUNT  said, there appeared to be a reduction in the cost of the clothing. Tunics that formerly were charged a guinea, were now supplied at 16 s d
 MR. HUNT  said, he wanted an explanation of the items of reduction.
 MR. HUNT  said, he would move that the Chairman should report Progress.
 MR. HUNT  said, he thought it desirable they should report Progress. For the sake of regularity he would suggest that, as an alteration had been made in the amount of
 831
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, no answer had been given to the argument. The question for the House to consider was upon what ground it was that the evidence should be printed. He asked for information from the Speaker, the highest authority on the subject.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he would appeal to the right hon. Gentleman the Speaker whether the Committee had not ceased to exist, and whether the present proposal was irregular. The Act said the Committee might report, and by the next clause they were permitted, after having first reported, to bring any matter in connection with their inquiry before the House, and take their opinion upon it, but it must be as a Committee. The Committee had ceased to exist, and therefore this proceeding was irregular. In the other House of Parliament it was enacted that if a Committee reported the existence of corrupt practices the House should recommend the appointment of a Royal Commission. But in this case there was no Report. Still, the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite said the House had the same authority to proceed as if there was a Report. If so, the last Act was useless. Was there, he asked, any precedent for taking steps on the Report of a Committee which had ceased to be a Committee?
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that it was for the House to decide the question. If he had seen anything in the proposition contrary to the rules of the House he should have considered in his duty to call attention to it.
 MR. GEORGE  said, he had no objection to the Committee setting themselves right with the House, but he did object to the evidence being printed. The Committee, when once appointed by the House, derived its power from the statute, and was no further under the control of the House. If a Committee neglected to perform its duties, and thereby became defunct, there was an end of it, and its proceedings. The very counsel for the petitioning Member in his book on election law said that in the case of an illegal adjournment the Committee was defunct. The Committee had never expressed an opinion. The investigation was in the nature of a criminal proceeding; and the law presumed the innocence of a man whose guilt was not proved.
 MR. HUBBARD  considered, that much of the hostility displayed towards the Bill, was excited in consequence of its being introduced under a title which neither explained its real nature and character, nor the intentions of the Government in bringing it forward. He believed, however, that the defect had been atoned for by the right hon. Gentleman's speech, in which he had given the requisite information. Any prejudice which had existed against the measure arising out of the mode of its introduction had passed away, and there was much in it that commended it to the acceptance of the House. The principle that Government should not interfere with schemes which could not be satisfactorily undertaken by individuals or private societies was generally good, but there were undoubtedly cases in which the interference of Government would be attended with benefit. The establishment of banks for the receipt of the small savings of the labouring classes was an instance of this, for the security elsewhere could not be so great as that afforded by the Government, and the increased security would probably be the occasion of attracting more deposits, the result of thrift and frugality. He therefore thought it was a measure the House might fairly entertain. He looked upon it as an extension of the Post Office savings banks principle, which had received the sanction of the country. When Government pro-
 799
 MR. HASSARD  said, he should support the Amendment on the ground that the Committee alone could decide upon the value of the evidence.
 MR. COLLINS  saw no reason why the evidence should not be laid before the
 857
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, he objected altogether both to the inquiry proposed and to the principle of the Bill. According to the practice of the House, to vote for a Committee was to sanction the principle of a measure, and that he was not prepared to do. There was great danger, if the Bill passed, of overloading that already
 800
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : This discussion appears to have arrived now at its natural close, and this is the less to be regretted because possibly the Amendment of my hon. Friend does not present to the House any difference of opinion. The effect of the Amendment will be that the House, at its discretion, will name a competent number of Gentlemen as a Select Committee. These Gentlemen will meet and probably will appoint me, as the author of the Bill, the Chairman of the Committee. I should then have the opportunity of giving all the information which it is in my power to afford respecting the Bill, and the views with which I should endeavour to act upon it, assisted by such officers of the Government as were able to render me assistance. After the Committee had been nominated, a further question would arise—namely, whether the Committee should have power to send for persons, papers, and records. Upon this proposal would arise practically the question, whether the Committee shall be a Committee upon the clauses of the Bill, or a Committee of general inquiry into the subject of the Bill. I certainly could not agree to any general inquiry, and it is but right we should have a clear understanding upon the point. I see no mode by which if "persons, papers, and records" were to be sent for, the Committee could avoid falling into great difficulty. The officers of the Government, and persons favourable to the Government plan, who would be examined, would give evidence upon a very complex question, involving an immense amount of detail, and then the Committee would say very naturally that they were bound to hear persons of intelligence and information who entertained opposite views. Now, that is a kind of investigation which it would be totally impossible to undertake. In the first place, it would amount on my part to an entire abnegation of the regular and ordinary duties of my office were I to become in any degree the organ of the Government in conducting an investigation of this sort. In the next place, great practical evils would arise from an investigation which it would be impossible to separate from a great deal of controversial matter. It
 801 802 803 804 805 s 806
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had applied that expression to many transactions of the kind, namely, amalgamations, but not to that particular case.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had paused for a moment before rising to reply, in. the hope that some Gentleman would say something about the society to which the hon. and learned Gentleman had referred, but he regretted that superior attractions had drawn Gentlemen away from the performance of that duty. He trusted, therefore, that after what the hon. and learned Gentleman had said, the House would allow him to make a few remarks by way of explanation. In the strongest part of the language which the hon. and learned Gentleman had quoted he did not refer particularly to the Professional Company, but alluded to other societies, which he did not think it necessary to name. When he spoke of the wholesale loss inflicted upon holders of policies of the Professional Company he meant to describe the effect of rash and reckless speculation, without imputing any improper motives. It too frequently happened that persons of great respectability involved themselves in undertakings of this kind, which had the effect of deluding and robbing others, without the smallest impurity of motive on their own part. He believed, after what the hon. and learned Gentleman had stated, that there was no impurity of motive on the part of the Professional directors. It was also to be hoped—and might, indeed, be believed—that nothing would ultimately be lost to such of the policy-holders as might have kept their policies alive; while
 809
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that he had received many letters both for and against the Bill, and in this conflict of testimony he must necessarily pause before he gave his vote. The question ought to be considered dispassionately in a Committee, and the House would be better able to form a judgment after that Committee had reported. One of the soundest principles of political economy was that the Government should never do that for the people which the people could do for themselves; and the question was whether the maxim had not been violated by the Government measure. On the other hand he was quite sure it would be to the advantage of the working classes to get the Government security, because the Government would be able to pay. He should vote for the Amendment.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he thought the item for buildings and incidental expenses connected with the commissariat excessive.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that having voted the number of men, it was not possible to reduce materially the amount of the Vote; but he could not help thinking that the policy of Her Majesty's Government being to keep the country out of a war, the sum which was now demanded for the army was an extravagant one, and that a much smaller force and a much smaller outlay would be sufficient for the defence of the country. He also wished for some explanation as to the item of £1,435 for the director of gymnastics and fencing, and for sergeant instructors. He saw no necessity for such an expenditure.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished for an explanation of the item of £13,000 for the purchase of buildings for inspecting contract clothing. He agreed with the hon. and gallant Member that the cost of clothing the army was excessive, and ought to be diminished.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to know whether it would not be more economical to hire buildings for their manufactures than to build great establishments at Pimlico?
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in. reply, said, he thought an inquiry would be desirable before they attempted to make any ex-
 787
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, there was no question of the appointment of a second Committee, nor as to the validity of the last election for Lisburn. The question was whether the Chairman, having reported that the Committee were not competent to proceed, the House had not a right to know what were their proceedings while they were a competent Committee under the Act of Parliament. The House did not call on the extinct Committee for the evidence, but upon the officer of the House, in whose custody that evidence was.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to call attention to the inconvenience of discussing so large a Vote as £5,708,000, and to suggest that it should be subdivided. It was utterly impossible for private Members to do more than express their opinions upon the Vote in its present shape. It appeared that the Bri-
 818
 MR. ADAIR  said, he rose to move as a Resolution—
 "That the Minutes of the Proceedings of, and the Evidence taken before the Select Committee on the Lisburn Election Petition be laid before this House."
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  asked, what was the meaning of the entire abolition of the military store clerks? A number of clerks had been engaged for a considerable time as temporary clerks, but he believed it was the feeling of the late Sir George Lewis and former Secretaries for War, that it was desirable to absorb them as much and as often as possible into permanent clerks. He asked if all the temporary clerks in the department had been so absorbed, or if they had been disposed of in any other way. Temporary clerks, so called, but who had discharged their duties as such for a number of years, and as such they were deserving of much consideration, should be dealt with tenderly.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that the remark of the noble Viscount opposite, though true as regarded the Appropriation Act and the total amounts, yet, on a comparison of the Estimates of one year with those of another, it was more convenient that they should know what the items were.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  said, he was quite surprised at the amount charged for forage. How many horses were there in New Zealand?
 SIR WILLIAM FRASER  said, he wished to call the attention of the Advocate General to what he submitted was the inexpediency of making the colonel of the regiment the prosecutor in the event of a court-martial upon an officer of his regiment. The practice was, in his opinion, most objectionable, as putting, it might be, a distinguished officer in an unpleasant position, and likely to breed ill-feeling in regiments. Supposing that an adjutant was brought before a court-martial and acquitted, how could the business of the regiment be properly carried on with the adjutant in daily communication with his
 852
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he hoped the Committee would not insist upon reporting Progress. Estimates of future expenses were necessarily conjectural, as were those of savings. The fact simply was that they thought, from the latest advices, that the war would not continue as long as they at first imagined.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  observed, that there would be a sum total for this year to be set against that for next year.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, my right hon. Friend is no doubt well aware that, in a mixed Constitution like ours, each branch has its separate functions, though those functions are very often so interwoven with one another that it is very difficult to draw a definite line between them. Nothing but great forbearance on the part of each branch enables the aggregate whole to work harmoniously as a Government. But there are matters in respect to which the line is distinct, precise, understood, and acknowledged. Such is the case with regard to the functions of negotiating and making treaties with Foreign Powers. That function is known to be distinctly with the Crown, acting under the advice of its responsible Ministers; and if the case should arise which is contemplated by my right hon. Friend, of which I am not at all aware, we should deem it our duty to adhere
 788
 VISCOUT PALMERSTON : If a Plenipotentiary goes beyond his instructions he does that which is not authorized by his instructions, and therefore he acts either without instructions or against instructions.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I thought my answer went precisely to that point. It is not the practice, nor is it in accordance with the principles of the Constitution, that the Crown should ask the advice of its Parliament with respect to engagements which it may be advised are proper to be contracted. I ought, perhaps, to have added something with regard to the question of my right hon. Friend, whether, if the Plenipotentiary of England in the Conference should agree to certain engagements which would afterwards have to be ratified by the Crown, Parliament would be consulted between those two events. My right hon. Friend must be aware, that by international usage, the only ground upon which a Sovereign can refuse to ratify engagements made by a duly authorized Plenipotentiary, acting of course upon instructions, is that he has entered into such engagements either without instructions or against instructions. There is a Conference to be held in London, and it is not to be supposed that my noble Friends who are to represent this country will act either without instructions or against instructions.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, in reply, that it was not the intention of the Government to introduce a Bill of that character this Session. The Report of the Commissioners was not unanimous, and it was necessary that it should receive the most careful consideration. If, however, there were any improvements in this matter which could be carried out by virtue of the powers belonging to the Lord Chancellor, the Lord Chancellor would no doubt be glad to adopt them.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON , in reply, said, he had very little to add to, and he did not think he had anything to retract in, the answer which he gave to the hon. Gentleman on this question some time since. He then stated that his noble Friend (Earl de Grey.) had every disposition to afford facilities to soldiers desiring to employ themselves in the cultivation of gardens, and that a commencement had been made in the matter, and would be extended as much as possible. The Horse Guards had received a Report from the officer commanding the Artillery at Alder-shot, that two batteries of Artillery had been for some time cultivating ground ns gardens, and that the very best results had followed. Occupation had been afforded to the men, and their comfort also greatly increased by the production of vegetables for their mess. The land had also been allotted for that purpose for the Military Train at Aldershot, but owing to a question having arisen as to the payment of rates by the soldiers, it had not yet been cultivated. At Warley three acres had been allotted for that object. In the southeastern division, in the neighbourhood of Brighton and Dover, some of the troops had had allotments made to them. In Woolwich also some allotments were in existence, and more were being provided. At Colchester arrangements of a similar nature were in progress. No general rule could be laid down on that subject, and each case must be dealt with as it arose. In some places land was easily procured, and in others not so readily; and it became a question, of course, whether the soldiers were not to pay rent for land taken out of
 876
 CAPTAIN JERVIS , in rising to bring-forward the question of which he had given
 877 878 879 880 881 "That this House, having by the Acts 21 & 22  Vict Vict. Captain Jervis.
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, that after the clear admission of the right hon. Gentleman that he accepted the Report of the Commissioners, and that it would be carried out  bonâ fide,
 LORD STANLEY : May I be allowed to ask, whether the plan to be proposed will be produced in time to be discussed this Session?
 MR. HADPIELD  seconded the Motion, and said that the question was one of great importance, and the lowering of the duty on proxies proposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer would be a great advantage to shareholders.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, there was an old saying that hard words did not always constitute sound argument; and the speech of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Lowe) showed the truth of the saying. He had said that the noble Lord's (Lord R. Cecil) assertions were untrue, and his opinions absurd; but how had he proved what he
 912
 LORD ROBERT CECIL , in bringing forward the Resolution of which he had given notice—
 "That, in the opinion of this House, the mutilation of the Reports of Her Majesty's Inspectors of Schools, and the exclusion from them of statements and opinions adverse to the educational views entertained by the Committee of Council, while matter favourable to them is admitted, are violations of the understanding under which the appointment of the Inspectors was originally sanctioned by Parliament, and tend entirely to destroy the value of their Reports," 898 "The Reports of the Inspectors are intended to convey such further information respecting the state of elementary education in Great Britain as to enable Parliament to determine in what mode the sums voted for the education of the poorer classes can be most usefully applied. Your Reports will be made to the Committee, but it is intended that they shall be laid before both Houses of Parliament. The Committee doubt not that you are duly impressed with the weight of the responsibility resting upon you, and they repose full confidence in the judgment and discretion with which your duty will be performed." 899 900 "It is not unusual to represent the schools of the class just mentioned as institutions in which an unnecessarily high quality of instruction is given to the scholars, and at the same time to make out as a grievance that your Lordships' system ignores the very existence of 15,000 schools which stand in great need of assistance, but get nothing, although, without the services of educated teachers, they really contrive to teach children the simple elements of education." "There are, of course, examples in which the general regulations of all public departments press with severity and apparent inequality; but, on the whole, it is not correct to say that schools are unaided because your Lordships require an impossible standard of school management and instruction." "This state of things is neither due to the enticements of public grants nor wholly to individual exertion; highly-trained teachers have obtained a fair trial, and experience has shown that they are not only the best, but the only persons qualified, as a class, to conduct schools in which the poor are to be thoroughly, although plainly, educated." 901 902
 MR. AYRTON  asked, Whether there was any scheme under consideration for the employment of Indian officers when they returned home after serving in India?
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, that the case of the  Science
 MR. LAYARD , in reply, said, with regard to the first part of the hon. Member's question, that to the best of his belief that despatch was only read and not communicated in copy to Her Majesty's Government. Perhaps the hon. Gentleman would repeat his question to-morrow, and he would then be able to answer it.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he would request the hon. Gentleman to repeat that question also to-morrow.
 MR. NEWDEGATE : Do I understand the right hon. Gentleman to say, that a clergyman of the Church of England of the parish is the person responsible for the registration of burials performed by other ministers?
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Under what provisions of the Law is the power to grant Licences for Private Burial Grounds or Places vested in the Home Secretary, and should not such Licences be published; where does the Law require the Registers of Burials performed within such Private Burial Grounds or Places to be kept, and are there specified by Law any means by which, or conditions subject to which, the Public have the right of access to and inspection of such Registers; who are the Persons or Officers whom the Law holds responsible for the Registration of Burials in such Private Burial Grounds or Places within the Metropolitan District; the same questions with respect to Places beyond the Metropolitan District; who are the Persons or Officers whom the Law requires to make, or to afford facilities for making, extracts from such Registers, and to certify such extracts; and which of the Statutes relating to Burials apply to the
 873
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : I quite admit the importance of the subject which has been introduced in so temperate a manner by the hon. and gallant Member (Captain Jervis). There is, however, not the least reason for supposing that the Government has been disinclined to do justice to the officers of the Indian army. We have all along admitted that they are entitled not only to justice, but to the most liberal and generous treatment on the part of the Government. I have never denied that for a moment, nor have I a single syllable on this matter to retract. Our object has been to adhere scrupulously to the Parliamentary guarantee given to these officers. I need hardly remind the House that the whole of these arrangements were sanctioned by a great majority— indeed, by almost the whole—of the council of India, who naturally sympathize with the officers of the Indian army, and were little likely to withhold anything to which they were fairly entitled. I can assure the House that the very last thought in our minds was the idea of doing any injustice to the Indian officers. After the statements which have been made, I hope I may be permitted, without going into details, to say that a very large measure of consideration was given to the army of India. We adopted, of course, those arrangements which we deemed best calculated to promote the efficiency of the public service; but in doing so we endeavoured to give to the Indian officers every possible consideration. The very first step that was taken in regard to pensions, pay, and allowances, imposed an additional annual charge of a quarter of a million on the Indian revenue. We cannot, therefore, be accused of having stinted our measures by mere considerations of economy. When
 892 893 894 895 896
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, it was not for him to pronounce what was legal or illegal—the practice was declared to be illegal by a Court of Law before which the point was raised. He was perfectly aware of the despatch which the hon. Gentleman had quoted, which, however, did not affect the opinion of the Court of Law in any way. With regard to the question of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets, it was quite true that several Indian Engineer officers had been employed in this country, and there was no reason why Indian officers should not be employed here on general service on their return from India. As to the noble Lord's question, he hoped in a very short time to be able to announce that a conclusion had been come to upon the point. He was in hopes that he should have been able to submit his proposal before Easter, but unforeseen difficulties of detail had arisen, causing some delay. He hoped, however, to lay the proposal on the table in a short time. With regard to the question of the hon. Member for Derby, the case of the
 897
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH , in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to afford shareholders in joint-stock companies facilities for voting by means of Voting Papers, explained that under the present system the vast, majority of shareholders could vote only by anticipation. Shareholders in public companies, unless they were able to be personally present, which was often physically impossible, for no room could be found large enough to contain perhaps 18,000 or 20,000 people, were in the habit of delegating their authority and voting by proxy. The consequence was that the proxies being necessarily given in anticipation, the question was decided before it could be discussed by the meeting of shareholders. The Bill which he asked to be allowed to introduce would effect but a very slight alteration in the present state of the law. The great charter of railway companies was the well-known Clauses Consolidation Act, the 8 & 9  Vict. 915
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether the Sultan has recently ordered the Pacha of Egypt to discontinue the supply of forced labour to the works of the Suez Canal; and whether Her Majesty's Government will support the Sultan in that determination?
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he questioned what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman with respect to the retiring funds of Indian officers. He could not understand how the practice could be called illegal, considering the approving despatch of the Court of Directors in November, 1837, and the adoption of the recommendations by previous Governments.
 MR. BUTT  said, he wished to ask the Attorney General for Ireland, Whether it is intended to bring in any measure to assimilate the proceedings of the Law and Equity Courts in Ireland to those of the English Courts; and, if so, when such Bill will be introduced?
 MR. MAGUIRE : I have only one question more. Is it not a fact known to the right hon. Gentleman that Robert's Head shuts out the light on Roche's Point?
 MR. MAGUIRE : Is not Daunt's Rock five miles off the extreme point of the entrance to Cork Harbour? I also wish to know, Whether the attention of the Government has been directed to the necessity of removing Daunt's Rock altogether, and whether there has been any survey made with that object in view?
 MR. MAGUIRE : The right hon. Gentleman has not yet answered my question. I desire to know, Whether Daunt's Rock is not five miles off the extreme point of the entrance of Cork Harbour?
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he rose to ask the President of the Board of Trade, As to the intentions of the Government with respect to Daunt's Rock; whether they intend to take immediate measures to have it removed by blowing it up, or whether they have resolved on at once giving the usual notice of the intention to place a Light Ship, with fog bell and signal gun, near it; and, if so, out of what sources do they propose that the cost of such Light Ship is to be defrayed?
 MR. WALTER : Sir, as I may be unable to address the House at a later period of the evening. I beg to say a few words in seconding the Motion of the noble Lord. If the question which my noble Friend has raised was simply one affecting the order and discipline of the Department, I should be the last to join in supporting it; but the case is of a serious character; and the noble Lord has stated very fairly that by adopting the course it has been pursuing in garbling the Reports of the Inspectors, the Education Department deprives this House of the information which it ought to possess when dealing with this question. If the Inspectors were merely correspondents of the Department; if those who have charge of the Department receive the Reports of the Inspectors merely to grind up in order to make a report of their own, that would be quite a different question, and I should not object to their garbling those Reports. But I think the Inspectors stand in a very different position. They are gentlemen of very superior education; they get high salaries; and I think I may say it is believed by this House, that of all others they are eminently competent to guide the House on this subject. Well, what is the position of any Member who entertains views of his own—-it may be crotchety, but at all events deliberate views—on this question? My noble Friend has truly reminded the House that it has been my lot to address the House on the question of certificated masters. That question has undergone discussion here in two successive Sessions, I find in the Reports of two Inspectors — Mr. Norris and Mr. Stewart — opinions to the effect that I have entirely failed by my arguments to show that the system of certificated masters is not the best one. And I find in the same Reports statements that in the uncertificated schools are good-for-nothing-masters—old crippled persons, eighty years of age, paupers, and all the rest of it; and, in short, that I have not a leg to stand on if I bring the matter forward. I do not complain of that. On the contrary, I say the Inspectors have a right to make those statements; but when I have reason to know that in a Report of a different character, by a gentleman holding different opinions—a Report which speaks of a particular school as being the very beau-
 903 primâ facie
 MR. DILLWYN  rose to call attention to the insufficiency of the accommodation at present provided for Patents and Models of Inventions in the Museum at South Kensington. He said it was of the greatest importance that those who had invented machinery should have a ready means of seeing what had been already done in the same way. The present Museum of Patents was quite inadequate for the purpose, and, in fact, had been originally intended to be only temporary.
 MR. BASS  wished to know, why the grievances of the medical officers of the Indian army had not also been brought under the consideration of the Commission?
 MR. HASSARD  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, If the case of the barque  Science,
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs to be good enough to inform him, Whether Her Majesty's Government have any objection to lay on the table the Despatch of the French Government of the 30th of March, suggesting that the wishes of the population of Schleswig and Holstein should be consulted; also, whether he will lay on the table the answers to the invitation to join the Conference about to assemble, which has been sent out by Her Majesty's Government?
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he wished for an answer to his second question.
 MR. INGHAM  suggested that the scope of the Bill should be extended.
 MR. LOWE : Sir, I assure the House that the case mentioned by the hon. Member for Berkshire is entirely new to me; I have not the least idea to what the hon. Member alludes. The noble Lord the Member for Stamford (Lord Robert Cecil) has spoken of the "ferocity" which we displayed in a recent instance. I quite understand what he means. On Thursday last the noble Lord asked mo to state the grounds on which Mr. Morrell had been dismissed from the office of Inspector. I said I did not think it would be right to make an  ex parte 904 905 906 907 908 909 beau ideal 910
 MR. LOWE  explained that he did not mean to say that if the present system were abolished the Office would not work, but he intended to imply that the Government of the Office would be taken out of their hands. With respect to the reduction in the number of Reports—under the original system they had head Inspectors and assistant Inspectors, and the head Inspectors only made reports; but the system had been changed, and now all were Inspectors and made Reports. According to the present plan of one-half of the Inspectors reporting this year, the same number of Reports would be presented as in former times.
 MR. WALPOLE   reported
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Sir, there is no intention, on the part of the Board of Trade, to take the measures referred to by the hon. Gentleman. Considerable difference of opinion exists as to whether it would be desirable to place a Light Ship upon Daunt's Rock. If it should be decided that such a ship should be placed there, the Elder Brethren of the Trinity Corporation are of opinion that, considering the proximity of the Rock to Cork Harbour, the expense of supporting the Light Ship should be borne by the vessels frequenting or otherwise using Cork Harbour. Inman's Company, one of the ships of which was recently lost upon the Rock, signified their willingness—not lately, but some time ago — to pay any toll upon their ships which it might be necessary to impose for the support of a Light Ship. Although the Government has no intention to place a Light Ship at present, it has been recommended that an improvement should be made in the light on Roche's Point. That proposition has been sanctioned by the Board of Trade, and will shortly be carried into effect. It is such that the light exhibited on Roche's Point will indicate to a ship making for Cork Harbour when she is approaching Daunt's Rock, so as to warn her against running into that danger.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : I believe the Rock is between four and five miles from the entrance of Cork Harbour, but there are two lights visible, the light upon the Head of Kinsale and the light upon Roche's Point. The latter is visible in clear weather in the neighbourhood of the! Rock. Provided, therefore, the weather be clear, there are sufficient lights to enable any prudent navigator to avoid Daunt's Rock,
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : There has been no Government survey of Daunt's Rock with a view to ascertain the expense of its removing by blowing it up, but I am informed that a private survey is now going on, and that the opportunity is being taken of the steamer lying upon the Rock to
 872
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Only in the case of a ship being so close in to the Rock as to be out of her proper track would the light on Roche's Point be screened by Robert's Head.
 MR. O'HAGAN  replied, that he hoped in a very few days to introduce a Bill for assimilating the constitution and procedure of the Courts of Equity in Ireland to those of the English Courts of Equity, and also to assimilate the practice and procedure of the Courts of Law in Ireland to those of the English Law Courts.
 MR. W. EWART  said, he would beg to inquire of the Under Secretary of State for War, What steps have been taken, or are about to be taken, to enable soldiers in camp (or elsewhere, where it is possible) to employ themselves in the cultivation of gardens?
 MR. W. E. FORSTER : Having brought forward this question last year, I wish to say a very few words to show the position in which the great educational question, which we have all at heart, now stands. The right hon. Gentleman has made great changes—I am not going to say whether they are advantages or disadvantages— but no doubt great changes have been made. A crisis has arisen in the question; and just at this moment, when we are most anxious to get all the information possible as to facts, the right hon. Gentleman comes forward and pleads for the discipline of his Office—what none of his predecessors found it necessary to do—by saying that it was not the original understanding that all the Inspectors' Reports should be produced. Those who knew the history of the Education movement understood that when the Government gave State aid they were to receive information from impartial and educated gentlemen as to how that State aid was applied. It was never more important that we should know the facts; but no facts are given which run, counter to the view of the right hon. Gentleman. He says it is very easy to print these facts elsewhere; but I say the place where they ought to appear is that in which by the arrangement of the Office they ought to appear—I mean in the Reports of the School Inspectors. There is another point. Perhaps the House is not aware that this year the right hon. Gentleman only gives Reports for half the kingdom—the Reports are only from half the Inspectors in the course of the year. I do not suppose that he has taken care to pick the half most favourable to himself, but at the present time, when information from all parts of the country is so much required, he steps forward and says, "I
 911
 MR. MURRAY  said, he wished to ask Mr. Attorney General, Whether he intends to introduce this Session any Bill to carry into effect the improvements in
 874
 COLONEL SYKES : Sir, I rise to support the Motion of the hon. Member for Harwich; and, as the question is of great gravity, affecting the rights of some thousand British officers, and affecting the policy of the proposed military organization of the native armies of India, I will beg the indulgence of the House for some little time. As an old Indian officer who has passed through all the grades of the service, I naturally feel a strong interest in the subject before the House; but probably on that account not much weight would be attached to my testimony. When, however, the House saw two officers of the Queen's army taking the initiative, he hoped they would accept that fact as an evidence of the importance of the subject and of the justice of the complaints. Let the House consider how large a number of officers were affected. It was shown by a Return before the House that, at the time of the annexation, or re-organization, or amalgamation, that the establishment of
 883 Vict. "The Indian military and naval forces of Her Majesty shall be under the same obligations to serve Her Majesty as they would have been under to serve the said Company, and shall be liable to serve within the said territorial limits only, and be entitled to the like pay, pensions, allowances, and privileges, and the like advantages as regards promotion, and otherwise, as if they had continued in the service of the said Company." Vict. "The advantages as to pay, pensions, allowances, privileges, promotions, and otherwise, secured to the military forces of the East India Company by the former Act, should be maintained in any place for the re-organization of the Indian Army." "In the execution of these measures, the amalgamation, the pledge that due regard shall be paid to the rights and claims of the officers of Her Majesty's Indian forces will be scrupulously adhered to," "In the execution of the measures to bring about the proposed amalgamation, it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government that the pledge that due regard shall be paid to the rights and claims of the officers of Her Majesty's Indian Forces, shall be scrupulously adhered to." 884 regimental ipso facto 885
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he cordially seconded the Motion, as he considered the subject brought under the notice of the Government and the House was of very great importance. The grievance of which these officers complained was one that ought to be removed, and he was astonished that the Government should for so long have continued to overlook their complaints. Perhaps an explanation might be found in the fact that these officers were a long way off, and therefore their complaints might safely be treated with neglect. Not long ago the privates of the Indian army were induced to believe that the Government had not behaved well towards them. When it was proposed to identify the privates of the Indian army with the Queen's army, the noble Lord at the head of the Government stated in that House that the men, if they preferred to remain in their former positions, would be entitled to an additional bounty; but when the time came for payment of that bounty, the Government in India refused to give it. He believed that after some time Lord Canning had thought it was advisable that the bounty should be paid; but in the meantime a great deal of indiscipline, approaching to mutiny, took place among the men. He had more than once in that House reminded the noble Viscount that he was in some measure the cause of that mutinous feeling, as he had led the men to understand that they would be entitled to receive an additional bounty whenever they transferred their services to the Queen's army. The noble Lord had not given any reply to any of these representations. Then, as to
 882
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied in the affirmative.
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in reply, said, he had received strong representations from some parts of the metropolis of the evil arising from certain public-houses and refreshment houses being kept open during the whole of the night. It was suggested that it would be desirable to make such an alteration in the law as would compel the closing of such houses between the hours of one and four o'clock in the morning. He believed that such an alteration would be of great benefit to the public, and in accordance with the wishes of the majority of licensed victuallers. The right hon. Gentleman was understood to say that a measure was in course of preparation on the subject.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, there is no express power given by law to the Secretary of State to grant licences for Private Burial Grounds; but, by the 15 & 16  Vict. "That no new Burial Ground shall be provided or used in the Metropolis, or within two miles of it, without the previous approval of the Secretary of State." Vict. Geo.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that as the practice of other Departments had been adverted to, he felt bound to state, as the result of considerable experience, that he thought it was absolutely necessary for the interests of the public that the heads of Departments should exercise some degree of control over the Reports of Inspectors. He had had occasion at the Home Office, as had been the case with his predecessor (Sir James Graham), to call the attention of Inspectors to the nature of their Reports, in which, after stating facts, they proceeded to enter upon controversies upon disputed points. In those cases the Reports were not mutilated, but sent back to the Inspectors, exactly in the same way as he understood from his right hon. Friend the Vice President the Reports of the Inspectors of Schools had been dealt with. He considered that it was absolutely necessary that the head of a Department should exercise a power of that kind.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether the Government have come to any determination in reference to an alteration of the Law regarding the regulations as to the hours at which Licensed Houses in the Metropolis should be closed during the night?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, the hon. Gentleman is well aware, and so is the House, that some time ago the Sultan gave an order that forced labour should be discontinued in Egypt, as it has long been in every other part of the Turkish Empire. The parties engaged in the Suez Canal, who had been employing forced labour to a great extent, petitioned for a prolongation of time, which has been, I believe, twice granted to them. No doubt it is very much to be regretted in the interest both of England and of France that, when both countries are much in need of cotton, 30,000 or 40,000 people who might he usefully employed in the cultivation of cotton in Egypt, are occupied in digging a canal through a sandy desert and making two harbours in deep mud and shallow water. I should hope that so useless an occupation will soon be put an end to.
 MR. LOCKE KING , in moving the second reading of his Bill to extend the franchise in counties in England and Wales, said, that there had never been a measure with regard to the principle of which such singular unanimity hail prevailed among the leaders on both sides of the House. The history of the progress of the measure which he had given on moving for leave to introduce the Bill, must have convinced every Member that such was the case. It was a happy omen to all supporters of the Reform, that its justice had been admitted by those who, to their honour and to the benefit of the country, had led parties in the House for something like a quarter of a century. If he understood the matter rightly, the House must be taken to represent the mature views of the nation at large; and it must be admitted that the opinions of the majority were, to some extent, represented within those walls; in this view the history of the measure was an undeniable proof that there existed a demand for the extension of the franchise. It might, however, be asked why, if such wore the case, some of the measures in which the extension of the county franchise was included did not pass? The answer was, that in these Bills the question he advocated was in evil company. There had been, as it were, a binding together of the living and the dead. The Bills with which his was associated had all perished unheeded and unmourned, while the extension of the county franchise remained a living principle. It had been repeatedly proposed and had found the greatest acceptance in the country. It might, indeed, be likened to a bud which was now and then nipped by chilling blasts, but which had so much vigour and strength in its constitution that, sooner or later, it would be sure to blossom; and if by any accident the measure did not succeed on this occasion, it would certainly be passed at last. The Bill of 1852 was, as they all knew, a compromise; it was unsatisfactory to the country, and after a little while no more was heard of it. The Bills of 1854 and 1859 contained the very principle he was now contending for; but they happened to be unpopular and came to an untimely end. The Bill of 1860, which he might call the Bill of the noble Lord the present First Minister, also dis-
 917 918 919 920 921 s 922
 LORD HENLEY  could assure the noble Lord that the boroughs were not in the hands of the leaders of that House, but that their Members were returned because the electors thought they would support their views in Parliament. Not one hun-
 937 938
 LORD HENLEY  thought that a Bill like the present might have been allowed to pass that House without much opposition from either side, and particularly from the Opposition, for a provision very much resembling it was contained in the measure of Reform, which the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire introduced. The Bill might, therefore, be permitted to go into Committee, and might there be thoroughly discussed. It was a step in the right direction—in the direction of that Reform which those on his side were taught to believe was part of their creed. The measure was a safe one. Our commerce and prosperity had largely increased since 1832, and the country had been kept clear, to a great extent, of foreign wars. That was, he believed, mainly due to the beneficial effects of the Reform Act of that year, and to the manner in which it had brought public opinion to bear on the conduct of national affairs. The Bill now before the House, however, required the addition of a few clauses, and then it would be a very valuable measure. As it stood it would increase the power of the landlords, from its admitting a small class of voters who were utterly dependent on their landlords. He had learnt for the first time that day, from the noble Lord the Member for Huntingdon (Lord Robert Montagu), that it was a very beneficial thing that the Peers should have influence in the elections to that House.
 MR. DAWSON  said, the Bill was a harmless one, of purely a defensive character. If game preservation was to be permitted in Ireland at all, why circumscribe the only means by which the destruction of game could be prevented and punished? If the occupier of land was disinclined to become a public prosecutor, he ought to be rejoiced that under this Bill the property of his landlord would be protected without risk or injury to himself.
 VISCOUNT ENFIELD  said, it was useless to deny that hon. Members sitting on his side of the House were placed in considerable embarrassment by the Bill of the hon. Member for East Surrey; and he was not ashamed to own that he was one of that number. It would be very easy for those who merely wished to give a vote which might please their constituents, or which might, perhaps, have reference to a general election, to vote simply for the second reading of that Bill. But he was one of those who was anxious that the vexed question of Reform should not year after year be dragged through the dirt, and really desirous that, if possible, some definite solution of it might be attained. He was not afraid to own that he thought such a solution was almost hopeless at the present moment. And why did he think so? He looked to the two measures of Reform which were severally introduced by the Government of Lord Derby and by the Government of the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton. Neither of those measures received Parliamentary assent; they were hardly even accepted with any feelings of satisfaction by either side of the House. He would say nothing about the Bill brought in by Lord Derby's Government, except this—and he was not averse to make the confession — that it
 932 933
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  thought that the arguments of the noble Lord were sound, but the result at which he had arrived was a very lame conclusion to his able speech. His own great objection to the Bill was that it was founded on a delusion. It assumed that the representation of the country was a real thing. This was a hallucination. He begged the House to consider two facts. The first was that the representation of the counties was in the hands of the large landowners. It was chiefly in the hands of the Peers. Every one, he thought, would confess that—even the country Gentlemen themselves. This was certainly an anomaly; but this he must say, that he did not disapprove of that so much as he did of that to which he was about to allude. It was right that it should be so to a certain extent, because it secured an adequate representation for the wealth of the country. The other proposition, which he thought would be equally accepted, was this, that the borough representation was in the hands of the "whips" on the two sides of the House. ["No!"] If a man wanted a seat, it was well known that he applied to one of the "whips;" and that, he supposed, was the way in which every Member got in for a borough. Sometimes, when a vacancy occurred in a borough, if no candidate had been already provided, then a deputation was sent up by train to an office in London for a candidate. Then some gentleman, whose name
 934 935 936
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  had not said that that was beneficial, but that it was not so injurious as that the boroughs should be in the hands of the leaders of that House.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH , on rising to move the Previous Question, expressed his regret that the subject of Reform should
 923 924 925 926
 MR. NEATE  said, that three-fourths of the representation was really in the hands of the landed aristocracy, and therefore it was a mistake to complain of the rural districts being not fairly represented. There were but few towns except the metropolis, one or two commercial ports, and some particularly independent constituencies, such as that which he had the honour to represent, which were not more or less under the influence of the landed aristocracy. And even Oxford, up to the time of his own return, was in part under the influence of the landed aristocracy. It had been imputed to him that he had accused the aristocracy of insensibility towards the
 947
 MR. NEWDEGATE  rejoiced at the tone and temper of the debate. He thought it showed that the House bad made great and effectual progress in the consideration of the question of Reform. It was welt known that he was a Conservative according to the meaning of that word in 1842—too decided a Conservative he feared for hon. Members who sat on the front bench on that side of the House. But why was he a Conservative? Because he was anxious to preserve that form of Constitution which secured our freedom, and because he did not believe that freedom—too often won by violence—could be defended against the aggressions that were directed against it without violence, except by law. Now, no subject, in his estimation, could be better worthy of the deep deliberation of the House than the constitution of the body which was to frame the laws that should defend our freedom; and it would be unworthy of that House to declare that they were not ready to examine and consider whether they in that House duly represented the intelligence, the power, the whole elements of the nation, the action of which it was the intention of the Constitution to elicit for the government of the Empire. He had felt the force, the truth, and the sound judgment manifested in the speech of the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex (Viscount Enfield), one of whose constituents he had the honour to be, and representing as he did another constituency which might be considered metropolitan—a constituency embracing almost as great a variety of interests as that which the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex represented, he agreed with the noble Lord that it would become neither of them to reject summarily every proposal for the re-arrangement of the legislative machinery of the nation, and to declare that they considered it immutable, and incapable of being accommodated to the change of circumstances and the altered
 939 s s 940 941 plebiscites
 MR. WARNER  did not much like the Bill, but he thought there were reasons why the House ought not to dismiss it in the summary manner which was proposed by the Amendment. The Bill was an attempt to remedy an acknowledged defect in the representation. If he might say so without offence, he thought it was a clumsy and an impracticable attempt. For that very reason, and in order to clear the way for future reform, he wished to see it thoroughly discussed in Committee. It had been admitted by all parties at different times, that the basis of the franchise was too narrow and ought to be enlarged. The great question in dispute, which had paralysed the action of Parliament for many years, was the question how to en-
 942 943
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he would assure the hon. Gentleman who brought forward this measure, that the last thing he would do was to use a single expression in any way discourteous to him. He deserved, on the contrary, the tribute of every hon. Member in that House for the combined courtesy and ability with which he had always treated this question; and, therefore, in any remarks he might make, he hoped the hon. Gentleman would clearly understand that he was speaking solely with reference to the measure, and not in any way discourteously to himself. He must say, in the first place, that the hon. Gentleman occupied a somewhat false position in that House as the advocate of this measure; and, in the next place, he thought he had brought forward some most remarkable arguments in favour of it. First, as to the position of the hon. Member. Highly and deservedly respected as he was, both in the House and in the district he represented, he must beg to remind the House that, practically speaking, he was not a county Member. Nominally, he was so; and that he was worthy to represent any constituency in the country he fully admitted; but circumstances over which he had no control practically did not place him in that House in the position of a county Member. He was virtually one of that dangerous class of metropolitan Members who never rose without making the House tremble to its very centre, for it was always expected that they were about to press some unjustifiable and piratical attack on the public purse. He hoped never to see their number increased. The House was entitled to have some misgiving as to the sincerity of the hon. Member's views when he told them he came forward as the champion of the rural interest. The first argument he used to induce the House to receive his proposal favourably, was that all other measures of Reform had been cast aside unheeded. That was true; but was there anything in this measure that entitled it to more favourable regard? So far from that, it was open to even more objections than most of the unfortunate Reform Bills that had been already rejected by the House. He said all who loved the Constitution desired to improve its efficiency; and how did he proceed? Why, by taking away that very small share of
 944 A laugh 945 946
 MR. PEASE  said, he did not know nor care to inquire which political party would be gainers by this measure, but he regarded it broadly as a question whether there were not large numbers of persons who were well qualified to exercise the franchise and who did not yet possess it. Every one would admit that, since the franchise was first established upon its present basis, there had been great advances made in respect of intelligence and wealth, and it was inconsistent to allow the representation to remain exactly as it was when other and different circumstances existed. Every hon.
 949
 MR. M'CANN  said that, under the Bill, a farmer's child who on his father's land took a landrail's nest would be liable to a penalty. The measure would create a great deal of ill-blood, and he hoped it would not be persevered with.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he was afraid that the hon. Member for Birmingham, in consequence of not having spoken in favour of Parliamentary Reform, was indemnifying himself by taking this opportunity of venting his indignation upon something connected with Ireland. This was really a most innocent Bill. There were, and always had been, different opinions as to the principle of the Game Laws; but if the objections urged with regard to the particular game which should be included in the Bill were well founded, they would form a subject for consideration in Committee. The Bill was in no way likely to increase those bloody adventures which the fervid imagination of the hon. Member had conjured up as likely to occur if the measure were adopted. It merely provided that where a tenant took land, and agreed that the exclusive right to the game should be vested in his landlord, in that case, and in none other, if some friend of hu-
 957
 MR. BAGWELL , in moving that the House will resolve itself into the said Committee on that day six months, alluded to the evidence taken before the Select Committee of 1846, as showing the demoralizing tendency of the Game Laws. This Bill was to repeal a section of the old Irish Game Act of  Geo
 MR. BRIGHT : I wish to make a few observations on this Bill. I will not go into the general question of the Game Laws, though it is one to which I have paid a good deal of attention. Every English Member will recollect with surprise, and every Irish Member with pleasure, that in Ireland there have been far fewer of contests and bloody adventures in connection with the Game Laws than in England. I suppose every Irish Member will congratulate himself and his country on that fact. Now, as far as I understand this Bill, the object of it is to give additional powers to the proprietors of land for the preservation of game. It gives them additional powers for the prosecution of poachers, and, in
 956
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL  said there was a great deal of poaching in Ireland, but the class of poachers was quite different from the English poachers. Very often the sub-Inspector of police was a poacher.
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman was under a complete misapprehension as to the effect of the Bill, which he might say he had brought forward, not for the sake of the landlords of Ireland, but for the sake of tenants. All the Bill did was to enable the landlords who had reserved the right to the game to prosecute trespassers, instead of placing the onus on the occupier as was the law at present. The Bill did not introduce any increased stringency into the Game Laws.
 MR. TREHERNE  said, that although not the youngest, yet he was one of the newest Members of the House, and therefore asked their indulgence while he addressed a few remarks to them. He did not rise to abuse the landed aristocracy, nor to discuss whether they exercised too much influence in the smaller towns, because those matters had nothing to do with the question before the House. He only ventured to speak now, because, when he was a candidate at the last and previous elections, he had been rigidly questioned upon one point, and he had then declared it to be his deliberate opinion that, in order to calm the agitation and misunderstanding that prevailed, a £20 franchise in counties and a £10 rental franchise in boroughs was an arrangement which should have his support. [ A laugh 948
 MR. M'MAHON  said, that if it was a good argument in favour of the Game Laws, that game was property produced at the expense of the landlord, woodcocks, quails, and landrails were certainly not in the category. He complained that the Bill extended to those birds, and said that under its provisions a person killing wild ducks or teal on a part of the seashore claimed as private property might be imprisoned for two months. The English law did not extend to these birds, and as he believed that game was very well protected in Ireland by the existing law, he should support the Amendment.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, that on the understanding that he would not be placed in a worse position by giving up his place on the paper to-morrow, he was willing to accede to the request of his hon. and gallant Friend. But he hoped the House would show him some consideration on Friday. He supposed the Committee of Ways and Means would be taken next after Supply on Friday.
 MR. CRAWFORD , under those circumstances, would give precedence to the Motion of his hon. and gallant Friend.
 MR. COLLINS  said, he believed that the Bill was one which would not be supported by any hon. Member with sincerity. There were no two Members among those who supported the Bill supported it on the same grounds. One noble Lord had intimated his intention of supporting the second reading in order that the rate fixed by the Bill might be reduced, and another noble Lord also proposed giving it his support in order that he might double the amount. He maintained that the various Reform measures which had been introduced during the last fourteen years had all been in direct hostility to the principles of the Bill, Those measures had dealt with the questions of borough and county representation and the re-distribution of seats; but the Bill introduced by the hon. Member for East Surrey dealt only with one of those questions. The hon. Member for Leeds (Mr. Baines) also had a Bill bearing upon borough suffrage, which he had proposed bringing forward, but it was understood that he now intended to abandon it. [Mr. BAINES: No!] His reason for that statement was, that the hon. Member for Huddersfield (Sir Francis Crossley) had said that the Bill was only brought forward for the purpose of inducing the Government to transfer the assizes to Leeds instead of to Wakefield. The Bill of 1852 bad an opposite effect to that of the one now brought forward by
 951 952
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : It will.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the sugar trade was one of immense importance to the general interests of the country, and it was necessarily hung up in almost entire suspense during the deliberation on the sugar duties which were now pending. His hon. Friend the Member for the City of London (Mr. Crawford) wished to raise a question of very great importance, not at all contesting the principle of the proposed alteration in those duties, but contesting the manner in which that alteration was proposed to be carried out. That being so, it was for the convenience of the sugar trade and of the public generally, that the sense of the Mouse should be taken on the Motion of the hon. and gallant Member (Colonel Barttelot) as soon as possible. He should therefore, hope that his hon. Friend the Member for the City of London would yield to the appeal made to him by the hon. and gallant Gentleman; and as the public was expecting that the alterations in the sugar duties would take effect on Saturday, if the proposed alteration was recognized by the House, he hoped hon. Members would be moderate in the exercise of the privilege on Fri
 959
 MR. W. R. ORMSBY GORE  said, that his object in bringing forward this Bill was not to make the existing law at all more stringent than it was before.
 MR. HIBBERT  said, he for one should go into the lobby with the sincerest desire that the measure should succeed; and he believed that was the feeling on his side of the House. He would support a proposition for the grouping of boroughs in certain cases, or any similar measure which would help on the cause of Reform. The hon. Member (Mr. Knightley) said that the county Members represented on the average 75,000 inhabitants, while the borough Members represented only 25,000, but the hon. Gentleman need not hold that conclusive against giving more voting power to the county Members. For his own part, he neither believed that the influence of Peers in the county representation was greater than it must naturally be; nor, on the other hand, that the borough Members were returned by the influence of the "whips" on either side. He believed that this measure would strengthen, and not weaken the Constitution, and he considered that many persons were unjustly treated in being excluded from the franchise.
 SIR JOHN WALSH  said, he thought they were much obliged to the hon. Member for Coventry (Mr. Treherne) for enlivening a debate which before had been remarkable only for its dull gravity and repose—a feeling he might remark which seemed fully shared in by people out of doors on this subject. There had been no gathering on Kennington Common or Primrose Hill in favour of Reform—almost no petitions to the House on the subject. This apathy on a question which once convulsed the country was not a little surprising. Another singular circumstance was that the Bill had not found a single supporter in that House, and it was doubtful whether even the hon. Member for East Surrey was a hearty admirer of his own Bill. Not one of those who had spoken that evening and said that they intended to vote for the second reading, had done so without qualification; every one of its professing supporters had found fault with it as imperfect, defective, or inadequate—and intended to vote for it only in order that they might alter and modify it. Another objection to the Bill was that it was not designed to be a final measure, but only as a prelude to future legislation. At present, however, it seemed to be brought forward merely as a matter of habit. The noble Lord the Member for Northampton had in his remarks argued very much on the  post hoc propter hoc 950
 MR. KNIGHTLEY  agreed with the last speaker in thinking that the House could be more usefully employed than in engaging for the twentieth time in flat, stale, and unprofitable discussions which could lead to no practical result. He had no wish to attribute improper motives to the hon. Member for East Surrey, whom everybody respected; but he could not
 927 928 929 s d s 930 931 "Such proposals as that of Mr. Baines and of Mr. Locke-King are simply a nuisance, and nothing more. It is absurd to suppose that they can ever be allowed to pass so long as any kind of statesmanship exists in either House of Parliament. Unless they are stupid blunderers, they are grossly insincere. They are measures in effect revolutionary, and yet even in that sense incomplete; and they are proposed under the plea that no great change would come of them. It may be right that the Constitution should be recast, and that a new class should be installed in power, but no statesman of any party will endure that it should be done surreptitiously by measures of professed innocence and under the guise of sham moderation." Saturday Review
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that he had agreed to the second reading of the Bill on the understanding that he should propose Amendments in Committee, and he had now an Amendment on the paper, to reduce the penalties imposed by the Bill to the maximum penalties enforced in England. He saw no objection to the proposal to go into Committee on the Bill, if it was clearly understood that full opportunity would be given for the discussion of the Amendments which it would be necessary to propose when the Bill got into Committee.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  appealed to the hon. Member for the City of London (Mr. Crawford) to postpone his Motion with reference to the adjustment of the sugar duties which stood for to-morrow, as an Amendment to the Motion for the Speaker to leave the Chair. He made this request in order that the Motion of which he had given notice in reference to the malt tax, might be disposed of. The latter was also on the paper for the same day, as an Amendment to the Motion for going into Committee, but the Motion of his hon. Friend (Mr. Crawford) had priority.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I am anxious, before the House comes to a division, to state in a very few words the reasons for the vote which I intend to give. I cannot vote against the Bill of my hon. Friend, because that might warrant the supposition that I am indisposed to any change in the county franchise. Un-
 953 954
 MR. STANLEY  said, he wished to know if there had not been some plans submitted to the Board of Trade by which something better than buoys could be placed on the rocks?
 THE MARQUESS of HARTINGTON,  in reply, said, the pay of 2 s d s d d d
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  stated that the Sergeants in the Artillery Corps were still attached to the army.
 CAPTAIN AECHDALL  said, he rose to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If the Irish Government have directed the Inspector General of Constabulary to recall the instructions issued to the police on the 27th of October, 1862, with reference to the Act 25 & 26  Vict
 MR. STANLEY  said, he wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade, What steps are being taken to mark more distinctly the Platter Rocks in the Refuge Harbour of Holyhead?
 MR. BANKS STANHOPE  said, there was one point on which every hon. Member was agreed, and that was that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had a surplus to dispose of; and he (Mr. Stanhope) thought he should be able to show, by contrasting the claims of malt with the claims of sugar, that malt had a prior claim for a remission of duty. By the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, they had a gross surplus of £2,570,000. Out of the surplus the Chancellor of the Exchequer devoted to the reduction of sugar duties the sum of £1,330,000. This would represent about one quarter of the duty on malt. He would ask the House to compare the case of malt as against that of sugar. There was a great similarity in several points between the two cases—sugar and malt. Both were articles of general consumption among the lower as well as the higher classes; both were articles which were subject to indirect taxation, but there was this difference—that sugar was subject to a Customs duty and the malt to an Excise duty. He must say that, as a general rule, it was preferable to take off an Excise rather than a Customs duty. It was to be remembered that when you took off a Customs duty, you helped the consumer, who was an Englishman, and the producer, who was a foreigner; but when you took off an Excise duty you helped the consumer who was an Englishman, and the producer who was an Englishman also. Comparing the articles of malt and sugar he asked the House to go back a few years, in order to see what had been the process of our legislation with regard to the two articles. He should go back to 1841 and to 1861 to see what the Legislature had done in respect of the duties on malt and sugar in the period between those two years. He should first show what was the amount of taxation on sugar in 1841 and what it was in 1861. He should then take the year 1841, and see what was the average consumption per head of sugar in Great Britain and Ireland, and he should do the same with respect to 1861. Before making this comparison he begged to mention that in 1821 the average consumption of sugar per head was 16lb.; in 1831,
 989 s s s s s s s s s s s s d s s d s d s d s s d s s d 990 s d s d d d d 991 s s s s s s d s s d s d s s d s d s s d 992 ad infinitum s d s d s d s d d d s s d s d s d s d s d s d 993 s d d d
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he did not know what the noble Lord meant, but he certainly seemed to convey the notion that hon. Members who supported the Resolution were hounded on by their constituents, that they were driven like a flock of sheep to vote against the malt tax. As far as he was himself concerned, that was not the case. His constituents did think that they had a right to ask for a reduction of this tax; but their feeling was that if the financial state of the country was such as to allow of any reduction of taxation, the malt duty had the first claim to consideration. They were quiet, orderly people, not prone to agitation, and were willing to bear just taxation; but when they had seen such taxes as the paper duties and wine duties repealed or reduced, they felt that a tax affecting the drink of the working classes deserved the attention of the House. The noble Lord was quite mistaken in the remarks he had made. He could not understand how it was that the noble Lord, himself a county Member, could turn round upon a body of Gentlemen who represented the largest constituencies in the country, and especially upon a question in which the noble Lord's own constituents had a deep interest.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he should not have risen, but he could not avoid noticing the language of the noble Lord the Member for Huntingdonshire (Lord Robert Montagu), who had thought it right to call in question the motives, feelings, and honour of men as honourable as himself.
 MR. PACKE  said, he was glad to see the hon. Baronet who had just spoken looking so well, but he eehoed the sentiment of the hon. and learned Member for Oldham (Mr. Cobbett) when he said that it was impossible to get in the harvest in hot weather, and when men were worked very hard, without a certain quantity of beer to renew their wasted energies. Doubtless, some persons abstained from malt liquor and thrived very well upon it; but the labouring man who worked from early in the morning till late at night, especially in harvest time, could not get on without the stimulus of such a drink. He thought the agricultural classes had a fair right to ask that a portion of the surplus revenue which the Chancellor of the Exchequer intended to apply to the lowering of the sugar duties, should be applied to lowering the duty on malt; but whenever there was to be a
 1010
 GENERAL BUCKLEY  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether it is in contemplation to provide the Drill Instructors of Volunteer Corps clothing and accoutrements in the same manner as if they were in a Regiment of the Line?
 GENERAL BUCKLEY  said, that in the Artillery the Sergeants were clothed.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, that he did not mean to call in question the motives of the hon. and gallant Gentleman, nor those of the mover of the Resolution; he had only stated what were his own. motives.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  would detain the attention of the. House for a few moments only. He wished to say a few words, chiefly in answer to the remarks which fell from the hon. Member for Old-ham (Mr. Cobbett), and to explain the vote which he intended to give upon the present occasion. He, in the first place, disputed the hon. Member's statistics. The hon. Member had stated, somewhat rashly it seemed, that if the malt tax were repealed, beer would be reduced to half its present price, The hon. Member had given the House no grounds for such a belief; he had not favoured them with the calculations by which he had arrived at such a result. He (Lord Robert Montagu) thought he could give sufficient reasons for not accepting such a statement without strict investigation. He had read in the  Economist d ad misericordiam 1000 1001 1002 1003
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, that, as he had stated the other night, the French despatch was not communicated to Her Majesty's Government, but only read to the noble Lord at the head of the Foreign Office. No official copy was left with the Government. As to the other part of the hon. Member's question, there was no intention of laying any further papers on the table at present.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, although the Resolution of my hon. and gallant Friend the Member for West Sussex, which I may be permitted to say he has brought forward, not only with great ability, but with peculiar candour, is very simple in its character, still the discussion in the House tonight has branched out into three distinct subjects. We have had to consider the expediency of the total repeal of the malt tax; we have had to consider the expediency of a remission of that tax proportionate to the amount of surplus which the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposes to apply to the reduction of the sugar duly; and thirdly, we have been called upon to consider, but not so fully, I think, as the circumstances require, the engagements which this Parliament has entered into with the country as to the remission of taxation generally. Now, with regard to the first subject—namely, the expediency of getting rid of the malt tax, I am, I think,
 1046 1047 1048 1049 1050 1051 1052
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  was understood to state, in reply, that for two or three years there had been no examination of candidates for the Indian Medical Service.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether the penny stamp on Proxies would be the common receipt stamp?
 MR. PUGH  said, that he should always be glad to be able to vote for a reduction, or even repeal, of the malt duty; but he could not do so on the present occasion, because it was put in competition with others which certainly did press with some severity upon the poorer classes. He must say, however, that he felt certain the time would come when it would present strong claims for consideration. It was the boast of the late Sir Robert Peel, after he had succeeded in repealing the Corn Laws, that the working man would eat his bread no longer leavened with the sense of injustice, and so it might be said that the repeal of the malt duty would enable the working man to drink his beer unembittered by a similar feeling. When the repeal of the malt duty was discussed in 1833, one of the arguments used by the leading opponents of that measure—Lord Althorp and Lord John Russell—was that if the malt duty were repealed it would
 1005
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If he has yet approved the proposed bye-laws for the City of London, and especially if he intended to sanction bye-law No. 12, which virtually proposes to withhold the common-law right of way through the principal streets of the City from dealers in fruit, fish, and vegetables!
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he wished further to ask, whether, in reference to the matter, the right hon. Gentleman intends to
 968
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether any penalty attaches to Vessels not carrying the proper Lights prescribed by the Merchant Seamen's Act; and, if Vessels infringing those regulations are subject to penalties, what those penalties are, and what is the proper course to take for recovering them?
 MR. BENTINCK  said, that although his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade had spoken with his usual ability and eloquence, he thought he had been wanting in his usual discretion, for he touched upon two very dangerous subjects. The right hon. Gentleman had laid great stress upon the fact that a reduction of the duty on malt would not effect the reduction of a halfpenny a quart in the price of beer. Now, he (Mr. Bentinck) recollected the time when the right hon. Gentleman used to lay great stress on the enormous benefit that would accrue to the poor by a reduction of the duty on corn affecting the quartern loaf. He regretted that the right hon. Gentleman had forgotten the arguments he then used. The right hon. Gentleman had also touched on the dangerous subject of the paper duty. He would have done wisely not to have alluded to that subject, and still more wisely if he had not called attention to those remarkable arguments which were once used in the teeth and laughter of the House, that the repeal of the paper duty was necessary to increase the number of penny newspapers. The right hon. Gentleman had quoted various opinions, but he should have recollected that there was hardly a public man on either side of the House who could not he quoted both for and against any question. He (Mr. Bentinck) would not appeal to the House, because it appeared to be wild on the subject of sugar; but he would make an appeal to those Gentlemen who had at heart the agricultural interests, and he would ask them to look at this question as a matter of business. Agreeing with them
 1036 1037 A laugh
 MR. SURTEES  (who rose with several other hon. Members) said, that being a new Member, he felt indebted to the kindness and courtesy of the House for the opportunity of addressing it; but he felt that the House was so well informed upon all the points relating to the question under consideration, that it was scarcely possible for him to afford any information with which the House was not already acquainted. Having, however, the honour to represent a county which produced a large quantity of barley, he was anxious, in promising his cordial support to the Motion of the hon. Member for "West Sussex, to offer one or two remarks on the subject. He should have been glad if the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had been able so to frame his Budget as, consistent with the efficiency of the defences of the country and the honour and welfare of the nation, to have introduced a measure for the repeal of the Malt Tax, or, at any rate, for its immediate reduction, with an assurance
 984 985 "I should vote for the repeal of the Malt Tax, in preference to that of any other. Looking forward to the ultimate abolition of this tax, I should gladly hail any measure by which for the time its pressure upon agriculture might be mitigated." s d s d 986
 MR. WHITESIDE : Was there any person "bonnetted?"
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, the right hon. Baronet had not answered his question. Was it on the recommendation of any local magistrate that the police were sent to what, according to his knowledge of it, was a peaceful town? What was the name of the gentleman who arrived from London? And was there any breach of the peace in point of fact?
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, By whose directions, and whether upon the recommendation of any Local Magistrate, and whether upon any representations of breaches of the peace committed or apprehended, 150 additional Police were recently ordered to proceed to the town of
 970
 MR. COBBETT  said, he had much pleasure in seconding the Motion, because it afforded him an opportunity of stating fully his opinion with regard to the malt duty. He did not speak as a landowner or as an occupier of land, but as one who regarded the question as it affected the labouring man. He had often heard the labouring man's cause quoted in that House, he was afraid sometimes for party purposes; and, at the same time, he had often seen that as soon as the party question had been disposed of, the labouring man had been entirely forgotten. When he first entered that House the question under consideration was, whether Lord Derby's administration should be dismissed or not, and he heard several Members on the then Opposition side of the House stand up and in very vehement and just terms urge the cause of the labouring man. It was said that the labouring man was forgotten, and that there was an iniquity in the mode in which our taxes were imposed, and that the burden was laid more heavily in proportion on the poor man than it was on the rich. He was not sure that the present Lord Chief Justice was not one of those who made a very animated appeal to the House on the subject. The consequence was that Lord Derby's Government was dismissed, and he was sorry to say the labouring man was dismissed also. Upon a more recent occasion, when Lord Derby's Administration was again in
 980 s s 981 post-mortem 982 983
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether he proposes to re-enact the Income Tax as it stood at the close of 1863, or whether he proposes any, and, if any, what change in its provisions?
 MR. JOHN PEEL  said, he had presided for several years in his own neighbourhood over an association of tenant-farmers, comprising some of the most intelligent farmers in the Midland counties. Now, there was no class of Her Majesty's subjects more patriotic and more willing to bear their fair share of taxation than the farmers of England. As a body he was sure they would repudiate all claim to special immunities or privileges for their own class. All they desired was, to be put on the same footing as other interests, and that the same principle of free trade which had been so happily adopted with regard to commerce and manufactures should be extended to agriculture. The Chancellor of the Exchequer, in his recent financial statement, laid down the proposition that the form of our duties should be such as would least interfere with the natural course of trade, and would be least open to the charge of offering to the producer a premium for doing something different from that which he would do if there were no duty at all. Now, he thought that the malt tax was in direct opposition to the principle here laid down by the right hon. Gentleman, because the tax did interfere with the ordinary course of the farmer's trade, and compelled him to produce that which he would not produce if there were no duty. A short extract from a letter addressed to him by an intelligent farmer would illustrate this statement. The writer said —
 "Respecting the derangements of agriculture caused by the tax on malt, we all know that it
 987 "I find that if I select several years in which Parliament has with firm unsparing hand addressed itself to the business of liberating commerce, those operations have been followed by striking success." 988
 MR. BASS  said, he admitted that the hon. Member for Rochdale (Mr. Cobden) was a great logician, but if his logic had not failed that night logic was a matter of which he (Mr. Bass) knew nothing. The hon. Gentleman had argued that a reduction in the price of beer would not be followed by an increased consumption, though, at the same time, it would bring the article within the reach of those who could not afford it at present. Assuming, then, that those persons who could not get beer now would get it then, was the House to conclude that those who used it now would give it up because they could buy it so much cheaper? With regard to the Motion of the hon. and gallant Member for West Sussex, he (Mr. Bass) confessed that he took the same view as the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down—that it was somewhat indefinite. No doubt the object of the hon. and gallant Member was either now or hereafter to repeal the malt tax; but his Resolution did not deal with the manner in which the malt tax should be reduced or repealed, He could not but think that the Resolution of which the hon. Member for the North Riding (Mr. Morritt) had given notice was better calculated to attain that object. Both the House and the country had adopted the Budget of the right hon. Gentleman. The organs of public opinion on every side not only approved of the reduction of the Income Tax, but they were unanimous in opinion that it was right to take off the war duties on sugar. Probably if he (Mr. Bass) had been asked before the right hon. Gentleman had declared his intentions, he would have preferred a reduction of the malt tax; but now he could only look to the future for that. With regard to a partial reduction of the malt tax, it would be impossible to accommodate the trade to a small reduction, nor would the benefit to the consumer be considerable. The right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down (Mr. Milner Gibson) was not altogether accurate in his estimate of the reduction
 1034 1035
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he wished to repeat the question which he put the other night to the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs—namely, Whether he will lay on the table the French Despatch of the 20th of March, and also
 972
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Not the answers?
 MR. COBDEN : Sir, I listened to the speech of my hon. and gallant Friend— and I may say my representative—who opened this debate with great pleasure. He brought forward his Motion with much ability, and I have not a word to say in opposition to the views he advocates. But as an experienced agitator, I must be allowed to tell him that he has erred grievously in the mode in which he has introduced this subject for the first time formally to the House. There is no rule more deserving the attention of any one who takes charge of a question in this House than this—that he should never allow it to jostle or to become entangled with another question, good in itself, but with which it has no necessary connection. The mode in which this Motion is introduced into the House is such as absolutely to preclude a fair division upon its merits; because my hon. and gallant Friend asks the House to consider not merely the merits of the malt tax, but the merits of another tax which he proposes to remove out of the way in order that the malt tax may occupy its place. With regard to the sugar duty, looking at the matter only as a question for the consumer—although I am not going to deal with the malt tax solely in the light of a consumer's tax—I confess I should infinitely prefer abolishing the sugar duty to abolishing the malt tax. Perhaps there is no tax — after the tax upon bread—upon which there may be so much said to justify total repeal as the duty on sugar. We live in a country where we have not so much of the sun's rays as more southern climes are favoured with. We know that it is the solar heat which bestows sugar upon the earth, and the consequence is that our fruits want the flavour which in other and more genial climes they possess. We require, there-
 1022 1023 1024 1025 1026 1027 1028
 MR. R. LONG  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether Magistrates resident in places which are exempted from the operation of the Highway Act are, or are not,  ex officio
 MR. ALCOCK  said, he remembered that when in 1833 Sir William Ingilby brought forward a Motion to repeal one-half of the malt tax, and carried it by a majority of 10 in a House of 314, Lord Althorp came down next day, and stated that if the House did not reconsider the Resolution, he should be obliged to propose a property tax of £10,000,000 or £11,000,000, and he persuaded them to rescind the vote. He contended that the Government of that day had committed a breach of faith with the country; they had never done anything to repeal the malt tax, and a subsequent Government did impose a property tax. The Government was bound to carry out the vote of the House—repealing the malt duty—or they ought never to have proposed a property tax. Not that he was an enemy to the property tax; it was only fair and right that they should have a certain amount of direct taxation; but what he should have liked was, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer should have put on 2 d d 999
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : He had made a calculation, and he found that the reduction of one quarter of the malt tax would occasion a loss in the present financial year, after providing for the payment of drawbacks, of no less than £1,880,000; and this calculation was made after allowing for an increase of 10 per cent on the consumption of malt arising from the reduction of duty. The question, then, was— how were they going to pay £1,880,000 with £1,330,000? The only argument that could be adduced in favour of the malt tax, according to the hon. and gallant Mover, was that it produced a great revenue—as if taxes were put on for any other purpose than that of producing revenue. There could not be a stronger argument in favour of a tax than that it yielded a very large return. He admitted the evils of an Excise duty, although he had been informed by competent authority that the regulations of the Excise did not materially—perhaps not at all—interfere with the malting of barley. And, whatever might be said concerning competition with the foreigner, it must be borne in mind that there was a
 1030 1031 d ad valorem 1032 1033
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, it appeared to him not to be very clear what was the precise proposal now submitted to the House; whether it was intended to take an opportunity that night to express generally the views of the House on the malt tax question, or whether it was intended to raise some definite issue as to the precise reduction which the House should agree to in the malt tax, and whether such reduction was to take the place of the proposed reduction of the sugar duties. The Resolution was exceedingly vague and indefinite, and the speeches of hon. Gentlemen who supported it had not made it very intelligible. The hon. Mover of the Resolution stated that what he meant by postponing the repeal of the duty on sugar, and dealing with the duty on malt, was that we ought now to reduce the duty on malt one half.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Then he had not caught the exact proposition of the hon. and gallant Gentleman, but he was clear that some other hon. Gentleman had proposed to reduce the duty by one quarter. He (Mr. Milner Gibson) was not particularly friendly to the malt tax or to any
 1029 d
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  believed there had been plans submitted, but nothing had as yet been decided upon.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, in reply, that by the Merchant Shipping Act a wilful non-observance of the regulations as to Lights constituted a misdemeanour, and the offending parties might be indicted and punished by fine or imprisonment. But it was considered that this was not so convenient a way of enforcing those regulations as a more summary procedure. There was also another penalty which might be enforced against persons who had failed to comply with the regulations. The owners of ships not carrying regulation Lights, in case of collision were considered to be in default, and therefore liable to damages for the injury occasioned by their neglect.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that the subject was under consideration.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, in reply, that buoys were placed there to mark distinctly the situation of those rocks, and he was not aware that anything more was necessary. It had been suggested that some kind of Light should be placed upon them, but at present no plan for that purpose was matured. All that existed there were the ordinary buoys for marking shoals.
 MR. WESTERN  said, that being connected with an agricultural county, he desired to state his reason why he could not support this Motion. He could not do so because this Motion for the reduction of the malt duty was made in professed opposition to the proposal of the Chancellor of the Exchequer for the reduction of the sugar duties. Nearly every
 1006
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that Government had no intention whatever of making any material change in the provisions of the Income Tax Act. A point of some consequence was raised last year relating to Railway Companies; but it had since been settled by the Courts of Law. He was not aware of any other point requiring legislation.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied there would be an Inland Revenue stamp for both purposes.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : £1,330,000.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has made a speech which appears to me to be honourable to his candour and frankness; but I confess that I feel some surprise that he should propose, as a practical proposition, that
 1038 1039 1040 1041 1042 1043 1044 "Notwithstanding the Resolution which pledged the House, you are wrong in proposing the repeal of the paper duties; there are claims which come before them." "The accomplishment of such further reduction as may not only equalize the revenue and expenditure, but may also afford the means of diminishing the burden of those taxes which are confessedly of a temporary and exceptional character." d 1045
 MR. BARROW  said, he thanked the hon. Member for Rochdale for the eloquent speech he had made in condemnation of the malt duty, and for the plain manner in which he had shown that some time or other the malt tax must be abolished. It was only a question with the hon. Gentleman whether they should make the remission now or not. He (Mr. Barrow) was unwilling that they should neglect any opportunity of making a beginning. He had presented petitions signed by 7,000 or 8,000 persons, the greater portion of them householders, in favour of the abolition of the tax. The farmers in his county unanimously supported the abolition, and they were actuated as much by a consideration for the benefit of their labourers as of themselves. He had taken no part in the agitation which had been got up on the subject, but he entirely concurred in the opinions expressed by the petitioners, that the existence of this tax was a serious evil for the consumer as well as the producer.
 MR. BEACH  said, that the opponents of the malt tax claimed that a fair issue should be raised, and that a definite decision should be come to, and he thought that the Motion of the hon. and gallant Member for West Sussex raised that issue and challenged the decision in no inconvenient manner. In the present day when unrestricted competition was the law of the country, and our agriculturists had to compete with all the world, it was difficult to justify the retention of an oppressive tax like that on their produce. It was only by the application of an unprecedented amount of skill, energy, and capital, that the British farmer was able at all to hold his ground against his foreign rival; but even now wheat was being poured into the country in such profusion that it could scarcely be cultivated here at a remunerative price. In such a state of things was it not monstrous that barley, the second product of the soil, in which Englishmen were supposed to excel the cultivators of every other country, should be subject to such a heavy impost? Five quarters of barley was a very moderate quantity to be grown on an acre of land; and yet on that quantity no less than £5 10 s 996 d d s d 997 s d s d s d s d s d s s d s d s d 998
 MR. MORRITT : Sir, I do not wish to give a silent vote on this occasion; because, though this Motion was brought forward against my wish, and contrary to any feeling which I have with regard to the malt duty, yet I feel that we have a common cause; and, while I deprecate the manner in which the Motion has been brought forward, I should feel a cur if I did not vote for it. I shall, therefore, support the Motion of the hon. and gallant Member. If my hon. and gallant Friend is beaten—and we are told that he will be beaten by a large majority—it is my firm intention to bring forward the question in such a reasonable way that it shall not be beaten by a large majority. I am told by some hon. Members, "Oh, you are too early with your Motion;" while others again say, "You are too late." If you bring forward a Motion on the subject before the Budget it is said you are too early, as you cannot know what the Budget will be; and if you wait for the Budget it is said you are too late, for the Chancellor of the Exchequer has disposed of his surplus. I now give notice that I will be in the field at the earliest opportunity and with an abstract Resolution, which will pledge no one to any particular course. I shall so bring it forward that the House of Commons by its vote—
 1053
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, he regretted that a rivalry should have been raised between sugar and malt. He admitted that the malt tax was injurious to agriculture; but sugar had peculiar claims on their consideration, and it would almost be a breach of faith to the sugar producers not to attend to them. In consequence of the emancipation measure of 1834, and of the free trade measures of 1845 and 1847, the British sugar grower had had great difficulties to contend with. His own opinion was that the sugar duties had the first claim upon Parliament with a view to their reduction, and especially so as almost every producing interest, except the West India interest, had recovered from the injury suffered during the transition from protection to free trade; and he also thought that hon. Gentlemen who were in favour of repealing the malt duty would very much facilitate the acquirement of their object by supporting the Government proposition, and thus getting out of the way of the superior claims of the sugar duties. If the Motion of the hon. Member for the North Riding (Mr. Morritt) had been brought forward, he should have supported it, for he thought that, from the instances of the advertisement duty, the paper duties and other taxes that had been repealed, the passing of an abstract Resolution of the House at the proper time, would lead to the repeal of the malt duty; but, anxious as he was to see the malt tax repealed, he could not on the present occasion vote for the Motion of the hon. and gallant Colonel.
 SIR BROOK BRIDGES  said, he would hardly have risen to address the House but for the extraordinary description of an agricultural constituency which had been given by the noble Lord the Member for Huntingdonshire, and to congratulate him on the peculiar character of the constituency with which he was connected. It
 1008
 MR. DU CANE  said, that as one of the representatives of an agricultural constituency greatly interested in the question before the House—an interest in which he fully sympathized—he desired to offer his thanks to the hon. and gallant Member for West Sussex for the very able, temperate, and judicious manner in which he had raised the issue before the House. He had no wish in the abstract to dispute the principle on which the Budget was based — the same apparently which the Chancellor of the Exchequer enunciated three years ago when he said that he looked upon the direct and indirect taxation as two fair sisters to whom in his official capacity he was privileged to pay an equal amount of attention. He supposed there was no one who would object in the abstract to the remission of the  Id 1011 "There cannot be a question that it is mainly owing to the exorbitant duties with which malt and the ale and beer manufactured from it have been loaded, and the oppressive regulations imposed on the manufacture of malt and the sale of beer." 1012 "Would the landed interest be willing, if the malt tax was taken off, to release the country from the tax of the Corn Laws; for of this he was sure, that all those were now injured by the existence of the monopoly, which he might term the community at large, would be ready, nay, be anxious, to get rid of it." "Repeal the Corn Laws, and you must allow the agriculturist to grow his own tobacco and to grow and manufacture his own malt." "It enhanced the price of beer; this enhanced price of beer diminished the demand for it, and the diminished demand caused a smaller quantity of barley to be cultivated, and the lessened price of barley was,  pro tanto 1013 "We sympathize with the farmers. We never will tolerate one shilling duty on corn; but we will co-operate with them in getting rid of that obnoxious tax, the malt duty. We owe the farmers something, and we will endeavour to repay them in kind." primâ facie 1014 s s s s 1015 s d 1016 "Are a saccharine body—as foots and liquorice, to sweeten it; a bitter principle—as gentian, quassia, sumach, and terra japonica—to give astringency; a thickening material." "As linseed, to give body; a colouring matter, as burnt sugar, to darken it; cocculus indicus, to give a false strength; and common salt, capsicum, copperas, and Dantzic spruce to produce a head; as well as to impart certain refinements of flavour." 1017 1018 1019 pari passu d s d s d s d s d 1020 s d s d s d s s d s d s s d 1021
 SIR EDWARD DERING  said, that the hon. Member for Sussex, and those who followed him in the debate, had dis-
 994 versus 995
 SIR FRANCIS CROSSLEY  said, that he had already on a previous occasion ventured to express his opinion that the malt tax caused no injury to the agricultural interest. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley), in admitting that it was a consumer's question, maintained, also, that it was one affecting the producer, and retorted upon him by asking how the manufacturers would like a duty placed upon their produce? That question was very easily answered. In this country the extent of land was limited, and was not enough to produce sufficient barley for our home consumption, so that not only could we not export, but we were compelled to supply our own wants by importation from abroad. If barley had formed one of our exportable products, the argument, he admitted, would have been a powerful one. The tax would certainly weigh rather heavily upon that portion of the agricultural community who paid for their work partly in money and partly in beer; but he ventured to say that the chief portion of the revenue resulting from the duty was contributed not by the agricultural, but by the manufacturing districts. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Oldham (Mr. Cobbett) had
 1009
 SIR. GEORGE GREY,  in reply, said, he had not seen the charge of the Chairman of Quarter Sessions until a copy had been sent to him by the hon. Baronet. He
 969
 SIR GEORGE GREY  stated, in reply, that the law required that magistrates, in order to be  ex officio 967 ex offlcio
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied, that the bye-laws made by the City had not yet been approved, and for this reason, that a question arose as to whether some of them were not in excess of the powers given by the Act of Parliament. Upon the City authorities being informed of the doubt existing on the subject, they took the opinion of their own Law Officers, who reported that the bye-laws were within the powers of the Acts. So much doubt existed, however, on the subject, that he had thought it right to submit the question to the Law Officers of the Crown, and it was now under their consideration?
 SIR JERVOISE JERVOISE  said,!would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether his attention has been directed to the charge of the Chairman of the Quarter Sessions for Cumberland, showing the cost of prosecutions at the Sessions and Assizes to be an average of rather more than £12 for each prosecution; while under the Criminal Justices Act the average was rather more than £1 6 s
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, in reply, that disturbances were apprehended at Lisburn as the result of the petition against Mr. Verner. The facts were these: —Everybody who knew what the excitement at elections was knew that they sometimes threatened a good deal of disturbance. Well, on the 23rd of March, 1,000 persons, men, women, and children, marched through the town of Lisburn with drums, fifes, shouting, and even the firing of pistols. That, of course, even in a town like Lisburn, created some excitement, and a magistrate of the counties of Down and Antrim on the 30th of March made a solemn declaration that disturbances were to be apprehended. He said that he had just arrived from London, and found a great crowd of people assembled round his house, shouting, "Verner for ever!" "To hell with the petition!" and "To hell with Richardson!" Shots were also fired in the vicinity of that magistrate's house. In the belief that riots would take place, and the reports being that what was called the Vernerite party were very indignant, a request was made to the Government that some assistance should be given; and every sensible person in that part of Ireland thought the Government in granting it acted with prudence and discretion. Accordingly 107 (not 150) of the Police were sent to Lisburn, and they afforded protection to the timid inhabitants of that place. The right hon. and learned Gentleman was wrong in saying the police were retained there. They arrived, he (Sir Robert Peel) believed, on the 4th of April, and were removed on the 11th. Not only did that magistrate of the counties of Down and Antrim make that declaration as to the apprehension that the peace would be broken, but another magistrate in Petty Sessions at Lisburn expressed his belief that the Government exercised a wise discretion in anticipating any probable disturbances. If actual disturbances had taken place, he was sure that the right
 971
 SIR ROBERT PEEL,  in reply, said, the question raised by the hon. and gallant Member had been submitted to the Law Officers of the Crown in Ireland, who were of opinion that the instructions that had been issued were in accordance with the Act of Parliament.
 SIR Robert PEEL  said, there was no breach of the peace in point of fact, because they prevented it. But there was an information sworn to, and a local magistrate did request assistance.
 MR. BAZLEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, How many candidates for employment in the Medical Department for India were presented, and how many were the vacancies at the time of the competitive examination in January last, and again how many at the recent examination?
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  rose to make the Motion which stood in his name—
 "That the consideration of the Duties upon Sugar be postponed until the House shall have had the opportunity of considering the expediency of the reduction of the Duty upon Malt." 973 "That this House is unwilling to proceed upon any Motion respecting the surrender of the large amount of public revenue which is yielded by the duty upon Fire Insurances until it shall have learned the probable state of receipt and charge for the coming financial year, and until, if there shall then appear to be a likelihood of a surplus income available for the remission of taxes, it shall have had an opportunity of considering together the several claims for reduction, and of determining in what manner such a surplus may best be disposed of, with a view to the general relief and welfare of the people." 974 s d s d d s d s 975 976 d d 977 978 979
 COLONEL BARTTELOT : What I stated was, and I thought I stated it distinctly, that I wished to reduce the duty on malt to the extent of the reduction of the duty on sugar proposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 VISCOUNT INGESTRE  said, he could not agree with the noble Lord the Member for Huntingdonshire (Lord Robert Montagu), that it was either dishonest or dishonourable on the part of any Memher of that House to advocate the claims of his constituents. In the county which he had the honour to represent (Staffordshire), a very large meeting of landowners and tenant farmers had been held, at which resolutions were unanimously agreed to in favour of the entire repeal of the malt tax. He admitted that he was not aware of the strong feeling that existed in regard to the malt duty, and when he received; an invitation to attend the meeting, he wrote to say that £5,000,000 was a large sum for any Chancellor of the Exchequer to give up, but that he was ready to support any measure for lessening a burden that pressed so heavily on the agricultural interest. However, when he heard the Chancellor of the Exchequer dilate on the elasticity of the public revenue, with a surplus of £2,500,000, and hold out the hope that, if the country prospered in the same degree, Parliament would have an increasing surplus to deal with, he could not help thinking that the right hon. Gentleman had passed over the repeal of the malt duty rather too lightly; because, in the counties of England interested in the growing of barley, the matter was one of
 1007
 MR. COWPER  said, in reply, that thirty-two sets of designs had been sent in by public competition, and those designs were now hanging up in the Royal Gallery, where they were accessible at any time to the Members of that House. The judges who would be appointed as a Committee to award the prizes would consist of five, and three of whom were architects of acknowledged reputation and experience, but not at that moment practising their profession. There would be also a painter, who was a professional man, and an amateur.
 MR. COWPER  said, the designs were for the plan of the new building that was to occupy one side of the front of the site which had been purchased at South Kensington, where the late Exhibition building stood, and which would afford space enough to receive the Natural History collection of the British Museum and a Museum of Patent Inventions, if it should be ultimately determined to place them in the building. The first thing would be, to get the designs for the new building as a preliminary step, and the use to which that building would be put would be a matter for further consideration. He apprehended that no steps would be taken which would prevent the hon. Gentleman, if he should think, fit, in any form he might desire, bringing the subject under the attention of the House.
 MR. SOMERSET BEAUMONT  said, he wished to know whether the judges were to be paid?
 MR. COWPER  said, it was not usual to offer payment to gentlemen who were kind enough to assent to act as judges in such matters, and it would be going out of the ordinary course to press payment upon
 1079
 MR. COWPER  replied, that he was really unable to say at what particular period of time the matter would be brought before the House.
 MR. COWPER  said, he believed that he would soon be able to lay on the table an estimate for erecting a National Gallery in the Garden of Burlington House, which was one-half only of the site.
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether, as the Armstrong breech-loading guns, constructed by Sir William Armstrong and now under trial at Shoeburyness, are made chiefly of solid blocks of mild steel (tempered in oil), and consequently totally different from the service guns which they are considered to represent; and whether it is the intention of the War Office to institute any and what trial of the Armstrong guns as at present employed in Her Majesty's service, it being evident, from Admiral Kuper's report, that some trial is urgently needed?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he was afraid that he could scarcely, within the limits of a reply to a question, enter into a discussion of the points which the hon. Gentleman raised. He could only say that he would be very glad to enter more fully into the discussion of those points when they came to the gun Vote in the Army Estimates. He might, however, then state that the Armstrong guns now on trial at Shoeburyness were,
 1080
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, he wished to know, whether he was to understand that the Armstrong gun, which was to be tried, was not of homogeneous metal?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : Only the barrel.
 MR. HEYGATE  seconded the Motion.
 LORD STANLEY  said, he inferred from the words uttered by the hon. Gentleman that the House would not be put to the trouble of dividing. In the event of a division, he was in favour of the Motion of the hon. Member for Bradford (Mr. W. E. Forster), though, at the same time, he could not have supported it, had it involved any censure upon the conduct either of the Foreign Office or of the Board of Trade. Though the arrangement between the two Departments as to the conduct of business did not seem to be satisfactory, it was much easier to point out defects than to state the precise manner in which they ought to be remedied. But the hon. Member for Bradford asked only for an inquiry. He had made out a fair  primâ facie 1103 1104
 MR. HENLEY  said, that he too was glad to hear that the Government had agreed to the Committee. The importance of the subject could hardly be overrated, and he only regretted that the arguments of the Under Secretary of State seemed to him to be rather in opposition to the Committee which he had granted. The hon. Gentleman concluded his speech by telling the House that he had given the subject a great deal of consideration, and that, in his opinion, it was impossible that the business of the various Departments could be carried on in any other manner than it was at present. Having made that statement, the hon. Gentleman then said he agreed to the Motion. The principle of the matter was very simple and was one that applied to every transaction in this country. In every transaction of business in this country a man was never satisfied, when he wanted to get anything done, unless he could go direct to the persons who were to do it. When A was obliged to go to B to get C to do something, the work was multiplied, and was not done satisfactorily. He agreed with the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn (Lord Stanley), that it was not very clear how there was to be an amendment; but, in his opinion, the present system was so palpably unsatisfactory that it was desirable there should be an inquiry to see whether some improvement could not be devised. He was not prepared to say whether the
 1107
 THE O'CONOR DON  said, that as the county Roscommon, with which he was so intimately connected, and which he had the honour to represent in that House, had been so pointedly alluded to in the course of the present debate, he wished to make a few remarks. He was very desirous of ascertaining the true state of the facts connected with crime in Ireland; but he greatly doubted whether the Return asked for by the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Whiteside), would give the information which he desired. The last list of crime in the county of Roscommon presented eighty-seven offences, but let not the House suppose that eighty-seven outrages had really taken place. In Judge Christian's charge, at the last assizes, he alluded to eleven incendiary fires as having been reported. Now, it should be remembered that there existed in Ireland a system under which compensation was granted for malicious injuries. Consequently there was a great temptation to induce persons to invent or exaggerate the character of offences. He found by a reference to the presentments made before the grand jury at the last assizes of Roscommon, that out of those eleven alleged incendiary fires there were only three instances in which compensation had been given. It was not, therefore, to be concluded that those eleven outrages had actually been committed. In three other instances the parties did not even swear informations, which proved the fact that they themselves did not believe that the fires were attributable to the deliberate designs of any person. When Judge Christian delivered his charge, in which he spoke of the disturbed and criminal state of Roscommon, he made inquiries into the nature of the offences
 1134
 MR. COWPER  said, the Government had not abandoned the project. It was at present under consideration, and he hoped shortly to be able to bring the matter before the House.
 MR. J. B. SMITH  begged to move the adjournment of the House. He thought that it was too late for them then to properly discuss his proposition that the duty should be imposed only for one year instead of three. The present question was one that ought to be brought on at a much earlier hour than it had been, in order to be properly discussed. There were several hon. Members who had not yet spoken who were desirous of expressing their opinions upon it. He trusted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would promise to introduce the Bill at such a time of the evening as would allow of time fully to discuss a subject of that importance.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET , in reply, said, the Government had no intention of increasing the pay of the labourers in the Royal Dockyards. The hon. Gentleman said they were paid at a rate considerably below the market value of their labour;
 1081
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, there was no difficulty in filling up the vacancies with hired labourers.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  observed, that the question of detection of crime in Ireland was not then before the House, but as it would have to be discussed he should reserve what he had to say about it till a future occasion. When the hon. Member for Roscommon (The O'Conor Don) sought I to establish that only a small proportion of what he called incendiary fires were proved to be malicious, he merely proved that there existed extreme difficulty on the part of those persons who were the sufferers by those offences, in making clear the existence of ma-
 1135 1136
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he hoped the applicants would be allowed to appear before the Committee, as their object was purely destructive and not constructive. He further hoped other parties might be emboldened to follow their example.
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he must deny that the amount of undetected crime could
 1137
 MR. O'REILLY  thought that the person in question was a clergyman. He hoped he had stated sufficient facts to show that a comparison of the number of alleged offences with the number of persons brought to trial would not show the amount of undetected crime in Ireland.
 MR. AYRTON  moved—
 "That it be an Instruction to the Committee on Group 1 of Railway Bills, if they think fit, to allow the promoters of the London Main Trunk Underground Railway Bill [ordered by the House not to be proceeded with in the present Session] to be heard upon Petition against the following Bills, with which such Bill would, if proceeded with, have been in competition—namely, Metropolitan Railway (Trinity Square Extension), East London Railway, Great Eastern Railway (Metropolitan Station and Railways), Metropolitan District Railways (No. 2), Metropolitan Grand Union Railway (No. 2); Provided that such Petition shall have been deposited within the time prescribed by the Standing Orders for depositing Petitions against Private Bills."
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman what he intends to do with Burlington House?
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, he would beg to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether the Government have abandoned the intention of introducing any measure for the concentration of the Courts of Justice? The present suspense was extremely inconvenient to the profession and injurious to the owners of property on the site recommended by the Commission of 1859. He knew of one man of the latter class who a few years ago derived about £2,000 a year from his property, and who was now almost ruined by the proceedings of the Government in issuing notices year after year.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  would beg to inquire, by what authority all those plans were prepared?
 MR. LAYARD  said, that he could not allow the subject touched upon by his hon. Friend to pass without observation, as it was one that was worthy of great attention. His hon. Friend had made it his study and possessed as much information upon it as any hon. Member of the House; in addition to which he believed that some resolutions passed by a deputation from a large number of Chambers of Commerce of the most considerable cities in the country, had a short time ago been confided to his care. Those resolutions, or rather memorials, had been somewhat largely circulated among the Members of the House. He had himself received one,
 1093 1094 1095 locus standi 1096 1097 "As a general rule, I should say that recommendations emanating publicly from our own commercial bodies must afford very disadvantageous grounds for the Foreign Office in attempting to move other Governments to reduce their tariffs, I can understand that our diplomatists abroad might, in a quiet way, by keeping Foreign Governments well informed of the benefits which a free trade policy has conferred not only on the prosperity of our people, but—what is still more precious to rulers—on the interests of the public revenue, induce them, from motives of self-interest, to follow our example. But from the moment that it is known that our diplomacy is set in motion by our Chambers of Commerce to urge a reduction in the tariffs of other countries, it places Foreign Governments, which are generally more enlightened and disinterested on economical questions than their people, in the disadvantageous position of appearing to move under foreign influence for the benefit of aliens, and thus the most seductive arguments are furnished to the Protectionists, who can appeal to the prejudices, and even the patriotism of the public, in defence of what they call the rights of native industry. I have, whenever an opportunity has offered, expressed these views to the members of our Chambers of Commerce." 1098 "We will give you the same privileges as we have given France; but we will not make any further concession, because if we do the French Government would claim to have it extended to them, without giving us an equivalent." 1099 1100 1101 1102
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I wish to make an inquiry of Her Majesty's Government respecting the distribution of offices as at present arranged. The point is one of some gravity, and I trust I may be permitted to preface my Question with one or two remarks, which shall be confined strictly within the limits of an explanation of its purport. The matter to which I wish to call attention is the tenure of office by those Gentlemen who at present fill the post of Under Secretaries of State. The House is aware that the distribution of offices is, generally speaking, arranged by statute—by the Act familiarly known to every hon. Gentleman as the Act of Queen Anne, the 15th of  Geo Geo 1082
 MR. DISRAELI : My explanation of the reason why I did not give any notice of my intention to bring this question before the House is the same, I think, as that which has influenced the noble Lord in declining to consider it now. The fact is I was not before aware of the state of affairs in respect to this matter. But because I was not aware of that state of affairs that does not make the matter the less important. The noble Lord, I am sure, will agree with me that this is a question of great importance. And you, Sir (addressing Mr. Speaker), will say whether
 1083
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that some years ago he had taken great interest in the collection of commercial statistics, which he was happy to say were now submitted to the House. It was at that period necessary that he should collect that information for himself, because when he commenced that task of calculation of the balance of Trade, the real value of the exports and imports of the country was not given, and he had to seek the information through his own channels. He (Mr. Newdegate) had also commenced the system for the adoption of which the coun-
 1108 1109 1110 Jewish Intelligencer chargé d'affaires
 MR. POTTER  begged to second the Motion. He had served on the Committee which had been appointed two years ago on the subject, and had paid some attention to the facts of the case; while personally he had no personal interest in the matter, nor, as far as he knew, had any of his constituents, he begged to say that the conclusion to which he had come was that a single uniform duty was the most desirable. After subsequent communications with grocers and with consumers he still retained that opinion. The present duty was called an  ad valorem 1165 "The proposition which I lay down, and which I invite the Committee to proceed on is that the form of our duty should be such as will least interfere with the natural course of trade, and be the-least open to the charge of offering to the producer or manufacturer a premium on doing something different from that which he would do if there were no duty at all." 1166 Economist s s
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he had no desire to prolong the debate, as it was past midnight, but as his hon. Friend the Member for the City of London (Mr. Crawford), who had advocated his Motion with so much ability, had referred to him in the most marked manner, and as he had acted as Chairman on the Committee to which the subject had been referred, he did not think that it would be respectful either to him or to the House if he were entirely silent. He trusted that his hon. Friend would excuse him if he used the greatest brevity in his remarks, and did not deal with the subject at the length which he should have devoted to it, but for the lateness of the hour. He should endeavour, in the few remarks he would make, to satisfy his hon. Friend that the three propositions into which his Resolution was divisible were not, either collectively or separately, worthy of the adoption of the House. The first of his hon. Friend's propositions was that it was impossible for the officers of the Customs to ascertain by inspection the quantity of saccharine matter contained in any sample of sugar. In answer to that he should appeal to the evidence before the Committee and to the practice of the
 1167 1168 1169 1170 s d s d 1171 s d ad valorem 1172
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that he had never intended to impute any personal motive to either the hon. Member for the City of London (Mr. Crawford), or to Mr. Nelson.
 COLONEL EDWARDS  said, in the absence of his hon. and gallant Friend (Sir John Hay), he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If he will lay upon the table of the House a Copy of the Letter from the Chairman of the West Riding Quarter Sessions, recently held at Pontefract, and of the Resolution passed there on the subject of the Assize Town for the West Riding of Yorkshire?
 MR. BUTT  affirmed that the Bill referred to was one intended to reverse a decree of the Court of Chancery, and urged the House to give the matter a careful consideration before agreeing to the Motion.
 MR. WHITESIDE : I never brought it before the House.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that in a former debate he had stated the number of fighting men who had emigrated from Ireland at 100,000 men. He afterwards applied to the proper quarter, and was told that he had stated the figures accurately.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he rose to ask for certain Returns of indictable offences committed in particular counties in Ireland, and laid before the Judges at the late assizes for Roscommon, Cavan, Longford, Limerick, and Westmeath. He did so with the object of eliciting an explanation of the causes for the prevalence of so large a proportion of undetected crime in those counties, and to ascertain what course the Government proposed to adopt to lessen the same. The assizes having now terminated the subject might properly be considered by the House, and if they could discover the causes of the defects in the administration of justice they might possibly suggest a remedy. The condition of Ireland had been described by the Attorney General for that country in very favourable terms, and the right hon. Gentleman had declared that no country in the world was so free from crime, and that although agrarian offences did occur, they were merely local, and left the normal condition of Ireland one of peace and order. The documents which he asked for were two in number. The first was a list of indictable offences and of persons indicted in, the several counties named in his Motion. The second was a list the existence of which was not known to many hon. Members, and therefore he would describe it. When a Judge arrived in the town where
 1121 1122 1123 1124 1125 "For copies of the lists of all indictable offences laid before the Judges of Assizes at the late Assizes for the counties of Roscommon, Cavan, Longford, Limerick, and Westmeath; and also for the names of the parties made amenable at the said assizes, and of the offences for which they were severally indicted, as appearing in the calendars of said counties; and for an explanation of the causes why so large a proportion of undetected crime prevails in said counties, and what course the Government means to adopt in order to lessen the same."
 MR. WHITESIDE : I beg your pardon. What I stated was—
 MR. BAGWELL  said, that he must agree with most of the statements of the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Dublin University (Mr. Whiteside). He believed the disinclination which at present existed among the Irish peasantry to give information against criminals was one of the effects of the police system, which did not afford protection to prosecutors. Not only had the magistrates and the grand juries no control over the police, but it was believed that their recommendation of a constable would prevent the man from getting promotion. The men composing the force were exceedingly fine men, but they had no inducement to exert themselves, as it was impossible for them, under the existing system, to improve their position in connection with the force.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he should oppose the Motion. The corporation of Belfast had been proved to have acted wrongly in the administration of the funds of that borough; and individuals belonging to that body had from time to time sought, by the aid of Parliament, to free themselves from the obligations which the Court of Chancery had imposed upon them. In 1857 they brought in a Bill which they were obliged to withdraw; and in 1858 another Bill which they brought in was rejected by a Select Committee. Subsequently, a Royal Commission was sent down to inquire into the matter. The charges preferred against the corporation before the Commission were, that it had kept the popular element out of the Council, and had closed the representation of the borough to all except those of its own way of thinking. The popular party, however, finding they could do nothing, ultimately withdrew from the inquiry; but the Report of the Royal Commission was nevertheless laid before Parliament. The case concerning the corporation was at present under trial; and it was sought to get the Report of an  ex parte 1075
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he is aware of the fact that the operation of one of the provisions of the Penal Servitude Bill will be to abolish the Refuges for Female Convicts in Ireland; and, if so, whether the Irish Government had been consulted upon the matter, and had approved or otherwise the abolition of said probationary institutions?
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, that after the observations of the hon. Member for Salford he should not press his objections.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he wished to point out that the principle of producing before an existing Committee the evidence taken at a previous investigation was one usually followed. He saw o objection to the Motion.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he should oppose the Motion. He wished to call attention to the recommendation of the Joint Committee of both Houses, that certain Bills should not be proceeded with during the present Session. The object
 1076
 MR. DILLWYN : What is the object of the Museum?
 MR. BASS  said, he was glad that the Government had consented to grant a Committee. In the French and Prussian Governments there was now a department in the Foreign Office which had charge of affairs of commerce exclusively, and he believed that a similar arrangement prevailed; also in Russia. No one would question the ability with which the hon. Member for Rochdale (Mr. Cobden) had conducted the negotiations for the French Treaty, but there had not been uniformity of advantage, and great dissatisfaction was felt by many of his constituents, that the opportunity of altering tariffs in certain cases during the negotiations was lost. English subjects were only allowed to introduce some goods into France a year after the treaty was concluded, although France entered immediately upon her exports; there was still a suspense account, and for some years to come England would not be able to enter into fair competition with the French silk manufacturers. Considering the advantage that France derived from the treaty, and the enormous increase in her trade which it had produced, he believed that the Foreign Office might be well employed in inducing France to do away altogether with the suspense arrangement. The Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs had told them that the Government had done what they could in the case of Spain, but that their efforts had been totally unsuccessful. It would, he thought, have been only reasonable on the part of Spain, with the advantages she had derived from the French Treaty, to make some little concession to this country. Her commerce in wine with this country had doubled since the treaty was concluded, and the price of her wines had been increased 50 per cent, so that in point of
 1106
 MR. M'MAHON  said, in his opinion, the Irish Members of that House ought to be thankful to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Whiteside), for having brought that subject before the notice of the House. At the same time, he regretted that the debate was of a mere abstract character, and could be attended with no practical result. He would rather that the right hon. Gentleman had moved for a Committee to examine into the efficiency or inefficiency of the Irish police. If the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland knew more about the country, he would not be so strenuous a supporter of the Irish police. That body, according to the judgment of most people, resembled more closely an army of occupation than a civil organization for the detection of crime. The Irish police were armed with swords, guns, and bayonets. They lived in barracks like fortresses, and did not mix with the people; thus they knew nothing of their character, and possessed none of the facilities which the English police force had for the detection of criminals. Every year, too, they were becoming more and more military. In the case of the English police, they lived among the people in their own houses, and knowing thoroughly all the various districts in. which they lived, as well as the general character of the inhabitants, when a crime was committed they were in most cases able to pounce upon the criminal. Unfortunately, in Ireland, everything was managed in such a manner as to conduce to a job. In the case of a felony committed in England, the person who had been robbed gave information to the police, who generally succeeded in detecting the criminal. Then the person robbed employed his own attorney and barrister, and the offender was brought to speedy justice. In Ireland, on the contrary, a person was not allowed to vindicate the law by means of professional men of his own choice, and in consequence of the system upon which prosecutions were conducted juries would not convict. There certainly was a Crown prosecutor in Ireland, but he generally lived in Dublin, or the chief town of the county
 1133
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Was the case referred to that of a clergyman?
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  expressed surprise that the noble Lord did not make this appeal before his own Attorney General for Ireland (Mr. O'Hagan) made his long and rather singular speech, in which he quite led the House away from the real subject. He was the last man to doubt the purity or impugn the morality of the Irish people; but the present was a question not of national morality, but of the organization of the police force. The Government of Ireland was framed on a vicious system, which had long been abandoned in England. It was a system copied from France. Everything in Ireland tended to Dublin, every question must be referred to the Castle. The only point on which Irish Gentlemen, who differed from one another on every other matter, were agreed was the utter inefficiency of the system of a military police. The constabulary were riflemen, but without the activity and discipline of soldiers. It had been said that they were a fine body of men, and that in one sense was true, for they were six feet in height. As a detective police, however, they were altogether useless, Irish gentlemen, whether magistrates, Judges, or grand jurors, all shared that opinion. Ireland might be pure and moral, but he doubted whether the Irish Government was so. Everything in the country was transferred to that sink of iniquity—the Castle. If such a Government were in existence in England the country would not go on for twenty-four hours. Irish gentlemen were reproached as absentees in this country, but what inducement had they to remain in Ireland? Their opinions were set aside, their services were declined; the Castle was everything, and except the Law Officers
 1142
 MR. COBDEN : Sir, as the Motion of my hon. Friend has been agreed to, there is little ground for prolonged discussion at the present moment, but I am anxious to say a few words to prevent any misapprehension here, and especially abroad, as to the scope of the proposed inquiry. It must be remembered that our manufacturers do not present themselves to this House at the present moment in the position of complainants as to the operation of the free trade policy carried out as we have carried it out in this country, irrespective of the action of other countries. The manufacturers do not come here asking the Government to forward their interests by promoting commercial treaties. The French Treaty arose from an accidental conjuncture of circumstances, and nothing of the kind can happen again. It so happened — opportunely happened — that we had considerable reforms of our tariff still to accomplish, which it would have been our interest to have effected, whether or not the French Government had simultaneously taken a large step in the same direction. But it so happened, fortunately, that the French Government was just in the disposition to make the first great step in the path of commercial freedom in that country. The two Governments were enabled with much more ease and advantage to perform these two operations together than they could have done separately. But it would have been equally their interest to have done it separately as by commercial treaty. Now, with regard to the argument that has been urged from time to time, that we have lost advantages by having carried out the principle of free trade so largely ourselves, without having first gone to other countries to induce them to go step by step with us, I venture to say there are not two opinions in the country amongst the mercantile and manufacturing population as to the gain we have made during the last twenty or twenty-two years by advancing without waiting for other countries to take any step with us in this policy. The immense increase in our commerce, as shown by the financial statement of my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, has been the reward we have received for having anticipated other countries in the policy we have adopted. Now, having entered this caveat against any possible misrepresentation of the object of this Motion of my hon. Friend the Member for Bradford (Mr. W. E. Forster), I would ask whether,
 1116 1117 1118 1119
 MR. CRAWFORD  rose, and said: * s "At present we have classified duties upon sugar—approved by many, a scandal and offence to many more. Now, I am not able to deny that
 1144 "I am not able to say that this system of classified duty has been condemned by experience." locus standi 1145 locus standi The Times "There is another reason of a practical kind which ought to tell in favour of low duties for inferior sugars, and it is this, they contain a great deal of treacle, which is quite uncrystallizable, and almost valueless in sugar-growing countries, but it is worth a good deal here." s d 1146 1147 "Is the comparison made entirely by the eye?" "There was a time when those questions of appeal were very numerous, and before we had adopted the practice of sending all sugars to one room to be assessed there, it was difficult to come to a decision; we then endeavoured to ascertain the saccharine qualities of the sugar by an instrument that was called the saccharometer." "Does not the judgment of the officers differ very much upon the same sugar?" "Yes; no doubt it is a very nice operation; I cannot say they could bring it to mathematical precision." "Their judgment is guided now entirely by the colour and the grain, is it not?" "It is difficult to say how far the qualities of grain, and colour, and whiteness are indices of saccharine matter: if you consider them as the indices and exponents of saccharine matter, it becomes a mere question of saccharine matter altogether. I apprehend (he goes on to say), with respect to what are called grocers' sugars, and so forth, that the buyers purchase those sugars, and that those sugars have a value with reference to colour, irrespectively of their saccharine qualities." 1148 "In consequence, I believe, of my representations, they (the Custom House officers) have been much more liberal than they were formerly; but still it is not a thing that the officers are able to judge of; they often lay the 12 s d s d "You have assumed that a certain portion of each (sugar) is saccharine matter, and a certain portion is not?" "In this calculation I have not assumed that; I have simply taken a calculation in the  ad valorem s d s d s d s d s d s d 1149 "Have you found that different rates of duty are sometimes assessed on exactly similar sugars?" "Yes; I have some samples here to show that; it happens sometimes, not only upon sugars of, you may say, exactly the same quality, but upon others. These are samples of Mauritius sugars, This one by the  Speedwell s d s Winterthur s d s d s d s d s d s d s d s d 1150 "Mr. Ogilvie presents his compliments to Messrs. Chalmers and Guthrie, and begs to inform them that having inspected the trade samples of sugar herewith returned, he finds that it is decidedly liable to the duty of 13 s d "Of course, Mr. Ogilvie has no right to expect that parties should point out mistakes to their own detriment, though it is but justice to state that there are parties who have done so; but if a party knows that a mistake has been made, which was obvious in this case and prefers the chance of its passing unnoticed or undiscovered, and if afterwards those chances do not turn out so favourable as expected, there does not appear to be very strong grounds of complaint." 1151 1152 "There is another fault found with the Act of 1846, and that is also referred to in the Report of this Committee in the 10th Resolution—namely, as to the mode of levying the duty. It is said that the Act does not, in point of fact, give the protection it professes to give, that various sugars are subjected to one duty, and hence the whole of our colonial Muscovado sugar is exposed to the competition of the best brown clayed Havana. That is most clearly stated in the evidence of Mr. Greene. I will not trouble the House with quotations, but he states that there are differences of from 8 s s s s "If we are right in supposing that the greater part of the foreign sugar will come in at the higher rate of duty—if in fact the really formidable competition with colonial sugar is this description of foreign sugar—then we shall give a protection for a year higher than is now enjoyed by the West Indian proprietors." 1153 "The discouragement which the existing arrangement of duties offers to an improved system of manufacture will be best conceived from the following facts:— "First. That the process of 'spoiling' sugar, when it seems better than would be likely to pass the lowest standard, is not of unfrequent occurrence on estates where the vacuum pan is used "Second. That a gentleman in charge of an estate on which vast expense has been incurred for steam clarifiers, bog and charcoal filters, vacuum pans, and pneumatic pumps, assured me that for a further trifling outlay of £100 he could, were it not for the  quasi bonâ fide "I venture most respectfully to conclude the observations which I have felt it my duty to make on a subject of so much importance to this colony in the words of a report addressed by the celebrated chemist Peligot to the French Colonial Minister in 1842:—'If colourless sugar cannot be produced from the cane (as was supposed a few years ago), if the molasses which impregnates and colours this sugar cannot be removed, if the production of colonial brown sugar must remain stationary as to quantity, if the quality cannot be improved, the excess of duty upon white sugar may to a certain extent be comprehended and
 1154 "In the present instance, my Lords are disposed to allow considerable weight to the arguments adduced by the Governor of Guiana; and they would observe that the application of  ad valorem ad valorem 1155 s d s d s d s d 1156 s s "With regard to the lowest scale which would be charged with 11 s s d 1157 s "So that it may now be said on the banks of the Ganges, as well as in the West Indies, and in our own sugar factories of the North, the dregs, the fermentations, the leavings of molasses, are good enough for England." "And thus it is that the English consumption is completely at the mercy of the refiners, from whom alone they can obtain the sugar they prefer; while, on the other hand, the planters of the West Indies, the Mauritius, and India, shackled by a barbarous legislation, and having no other outlet than the demands of the English refiner, take no pains to increase their produce, or to improve their implements, and are ten years behind the French planters." projet de loi 1158 "It is evident that the obligation imposed upon the planter to send nothing but impure sugars to France, in order to preserve for that produce its greatest portable weight, is a law only fit for barbarians," "Never has England received a greater quantity of the worst sugars, and never has France received richer or finer. "The sugar refined in Holland is almost entirely the produce of Java, which is perhaps the best raw sugar in the world." "Since 1860, thanks to the suppression of the standards, France has become the market for the first sugars, both in colour and quality. Let the standard be re-established, and a contrary direction
 1159 s 1160 s d s d 1161 s d "There seems to be one very important element overlooked in the sugar controversy among the confusion of fixed or graduated scales of duty, namely, that the process to which the imported sugars are submitted by the refiners of this country deprives them in a great degree if not altogether of their conservative qualities. This does not apply, of course, to the hard lump sugar, which is in every way unexceptionable, but to the remaining products—crushed lump, pieces and bastards." "The first and second, though good in flavour and appearance, lack the sweetening properties of good raw sugar, and for preserving fruit, or wine-making, are almost worthless. The third named (bastards) are bad in taste, stinking in odour, spoiling everything coming in contact with them. Of these last named, because they are generally sold at a less price per pound than raw sugar, the poor people in the agricultural districts make their little keg or jar of elderberry wine." "And the chances are that before Christmas it has become sour as vinegar. That is not the case with wine or preserves made from raw sugar, which will keep for many years." "Even the lollypop makers will not buy either of the three products named for their purposes, well knowing that disappointment is very likely to attend their operations. There is also another
 1162 "The great bulk of the retail trade, who alone are brought into immediate contact with consumers, know by experience the facts as detailed in the foregoing letter. Upon our shoulders fall, all the complaints of preserves that will not keep, and wine that turns sour; and we believe that a great deal of this state of things will be removed by a uniform duty on all kinds of soft sugar." Economist Economist Economist "It has been justly remarked that those more moderate advocates of a uniform duty who would have what they call one duty on 'refined' and one duty on 'unrefined' sugar, or one duty on 'liquid
 1163 "A uniform duty on liquid cane-juice, on the coarsest 'excrements' of the sugar-cane, and also upon the nicest and most delicate product of the manufactory, is consistent and intelligible." Economist Spectator "If a commodity is capable of being made by two different processes of manufacture, as is the case with sugar, it is for the interest of the consumer that that process should be adopted by which the best article will be produced at the lowest price; and it is also for the interest of the producer, unless he is protected against competition, and the process most advantageous for the community at large, and which it will be most for the advantage both of the consumer and producer, is that which is least interfered with by Government." "That all Customs duties which operate as an encouragement to the home production of taxed articles are an eminently wasteful mode of raising revenue." 1164
 MR. CRAWFORD  begged to explain
 1173
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he wished to ask two questions relating to this matter. The one was, whether the Government propose to submit to the House their plans for the Natural History collection, and, if so, how soon; secondly, whether those plans will be submitted to the House before any steps are taken to provide a building for that collection?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  begged to explain that what he had said was that France, not having given to other countries those advantages which she has given to us, it was inevitable that the negotiations should be commenced by France and other foreign nations.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that as there was no objection on the part of the Government to grant the Committee, he did not know that it was necessary to prolong that debate, or to enter into a general discussion upon the mode in which commercial negotiations had been conducted between this country and foreign Governments. But he wished merely to notice some remarks made by the right
 1111 1112 1113 1114
 MR. O'HAGAN (THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND)  wished to say a very few words before this discussion concluded, with reference to some observations which appeared to him to have unwarrantably dealt with the administration of criminal justice in Ireland. The general effect of the debate was very satisfactory, for it had dispelled delusion and done justice to public officers who had been assailed without sufficient reason. He did not think it necessary to go at length into the general question; but now, at the close of the debate, and after the testimony which had been given as to the condition of Ireland by so many representatives of large and important constituencies, he thought himself entirely justified in repeating the assertion he had made on a former occasion in that House, and to which his right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Dublin, adverted in the opening of his statement, that there was not at this moment in the world a people less tainted with vice or crime than the people of Ireland. His hon. and learned Friend the Member for Wexford had denounced the system of crown prosecutions in Ireland and urged the substitution of that which prevails in England. He confessed he did not admire the continual reiteration of the preference for all English institutions with
 1139 1140 1141
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  asked, When it was proposed that the alteration in the Fire Insurance on Stock-in-Trade should take effect?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said that, as the 1st of July appeared to be an inconvenient day for the purpose, he should be happy to substitute for it the 24th of June. With the view of obviating another difficulty, he should propose that, in the case of all policies made after the Resolution on the subject should have been recorded, but before the new law took effect, the duty should be chargeable at the existing rate only to the 24th of June, and for the remainder of the period at the new rate. An apprehension, he might add, prevailed, that a new rate of policy on stock-in-trade would require a
 1175
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought that at that hour of the night (ten minutes to one o'clock) it was hardly to be expected that the House could then properly dispose of the question. In substance though not in spirit he considered the proposition of the hon. Member for the City of London (Mr. Crawford) perfectly fair. He hoped, however, the hon. Member would not prevent their proceeding with the business, and therefore he suggested that the discussion which the hon. Member desired relative to the period for which the proposed duties should be imposed might be more conveniently taken in Committee on the Bill, and he undertook that it should come on at an hour which would give hon. Members an opportunity of fully and fairly discussing the question.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the arrangement between the Foreign Office and the Board of Trade in reference to trade with foreign nations, and to move for a Select Committee thereon. The first point that would suggest itself to any hon. Member reading the terms of his Motion would probably be that it was rather a serious thing to ask the Government for a Select Committee to inquire into the manner in which two of their Departments transacted their business. There were two precedents for such a course, however, to which he might refer—the one was the Select Committee which had been granted to inquire into the constitution of the Board of Admiralty, and the other a Motion by the hon. Member for Liverpool (Mr. Horsfall) two or three years ago, for inquiry into the constitution of the Board of Trade. That Motion was not, indeed, granted, but it was not opposed on the ground of being contrary to the practice of the House. He was quite aware that it
 1084 "That your memorialists understand that the arrangement between the Foreign Office and the Board of Trade is at present as follows:—That the Foreign Office takes action in commercial matters, solely in concert with the Board of Trade. That consequently communications from Her Majesty's Ministers and Consuls abroad on commercial matters are forwarded by the Foreign Office to the Board of Trade, in order that through such Board they may, if deemed desirable, be communicated to commercial men; and that, on the other hand, the suggestions of such commercial men for action by the Foreign Office in commercial matters are expected to be made to the Board of Trade. That while gratefully acknowledging the desire, both on the part of your Lordship, of the President of the Board of Trade, and of the staff of both offices, to promote the interests of commerce, your memorialists have found by experience that this double action tends to defeat the fulfilment of that desire. That the present movement throughout the Continent of Europe towards free trade, consequent on the reduction of its tariff by the French Government, makes it especially necessary that our Government should give constant and unremitting attention to all questions connected with foreign tariffs (especially to any changes that may be contemplated in them), and should be ready to take prompt action on information obtained, while at the same time it makes it especially undesirable that English manufacturers should find themselves compelled, by want of such prompt action, to make in Parliament or through the press such public expression of their wishes as tends to their defeat by alarming manufacturers abroad. That therefore your memorialists cannot but think that the interests of trade would be greatly promoted if commercial men in this country were put in im-
 1085 1086 1087 1088 ad valorem s 1089 1090 "The Earl of Chatham, with his sword drawn, Was waiting for Sir Richard Strachan; Sir Richard, longing to be at 'em, Was waiting for the Earl of Chatham." "The Earl Russell, with his pen made, Was waiting for the Board of Trade; The Board of Trade, in helpless bustle, Was waiting for the Earl Russell." 1091 1092
 MR. MASSEY  said, he would remind the House that the Joint Committee only recommended the postponement of the Bill referred to, and not that the schemes involved in them were to be superseded by others which were recommended to be heard. If the promoters of these Bills were not to be heard before the Committees appointed to consider the more favoured schemes, they would be effectually superseded, and it would be useless for them to avail themselves of the privilege to proceed with their schemes at a future time. They did not ask for their schemes to be sanctioned now, but only to be heard against other schemes.
 SIR ARTHUR BULLER  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether the Government intend doing anything towards the relief of the labourers in the several public Dockyards, who are at present paid at a rate considerably below the ordinary market value of labour?
 MR. BAINES  said, it was true that the Under Secretary of State had most courteously offered to receive a deputation from the Chambers of Commerce at the Foreign Office, and to give them every assistance. The deputation, accompanied by himself and the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Cobden), did go to the Foreign Office a few days after the invitation was given, and waited upon the Chief Secretary for Foreign Affairs, and also upon the President of the Board of Trade, and stated the view of the Associated Chambers upon those matters. He could confirm what had been said by the hon. Member for Bradford (Mr. W. E. Forster) as to the strong views entertained by the Chambers of Commerce on the subject, and their opinion was entitled to great weight, not only from the fact that they represented the mercantile communities of England, Scotland, and Ireland, but because they were frequently able to obtain from foreign merchants intelligence which was unknown to the Board of Trade. To give an illustration of how far the Department of the Board of Trade was behindhand in information, when the deputation waited upon the Board of Trade in February last, the President was asked whether
 1105
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied, that the Bill regarding highways was in print, and would be soon introduced. With regard to the other measure, he was waiting to receive the Report of medical men as to the dietary of borough prisons before he completed the provisions of the Bill.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied that he had no objection to lay a Copy of the document in question on the table.
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in reply, said, it was not the intention of the Government, in preparing the Penal Servitude Bill, to interfere in any way with the practice which prevailed in Ireland of sending female convicts having tickets-of-leave to refuges, both Protestant and Roman Catholic, from which he believed very beneficial results had arisen. He had been in communication with the Irish Government on the subject, and he had given notice of an Amendment in Committee on the Penal Servitude Bill, which would effectually accomplish
 1078
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he was surprised at the view taken of the question by the hon. Gentleman. When the matter of which he spoke was referred to the arbitration of the Colonial Secretary, it was agreed that the Report referred to should be taken as part of the materials on which the award should be made.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  moved that the Copy of the Report of the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the state of the affairs of the Borough of Belfast, with the Minutes of the Evidence, presented 24th February, 1859, be referred to the Committee on the Belfast Improvement (No. 2) Bill.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he wished to ask, whether the applications referred to by the noble Lord were not from men desiring to be put upon the fixed list of the Dockyard establishment, and whether there was not at present very serious difficulty in filling up the ranks of the hired men with persons of competent ability in the shipwright and other departments?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, What are his intentions in regard to two subjects which are now exciting great interest; whether he intends to introduce a Bill for the amendment of the Highway Act; and whether he will bring in the Bill he promised for the improvement of discipline in county and borough prisons?
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that the right hon. Gentleman would have an opportunity of referring to the subject afterwards. As regarded the Motion then before the House, the Government were quite ready to furnish the right hon. Gentleman with the copies he required. The right hon. Gentleman had also asked him if he could give any explanation as to the cause why so large a proportion of undetected crime prevailed in the country, and what course the Government intended to adopt in order to lessen the amount of undetected crime. The right hon. Gentleman had then gone  seriatim 1127 1128 "I have been furnished by your county Inspector with his Report, containing a return of the amount of offences committed, and I am struck with suprise at the numbers set down for which no one has been made amenable, and others where the prosecutions had been altogether abandoned." 1129
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he had given the subject much consideration since it had last been submitted to the attention of the House. He assured the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Dublin University (Mr. Whiteside) that the observations he made upon a former occasion were not intended to cast any slur upon the remarks of the Judges. His object on that occasion had been to show that the state of the country generally was not what it was sometimes described to be. Before, however, alluding to the subject, he wished to make one remark. They all knew that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Whiteside) was a very spirited and dashing speaker, and that when he made an assertion, which
 1126
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : Well, then, the right hon. Gentleman had ventured upon erroneous statements which he was obliged to correct. He had had drawn up for his own information the statements of the Judges of twenty-nine separate counties, and in every instance they had spoken favourably of the state of the country and of the constabulary. He would not weary the House by going through the whole of the charges, and would, therefore, only allude to the charge of Chief Justice Monaghan at Kerry, who said that he would not join in the cry that had been raised by his brethren, the other Judges, to run down the constabulary. The Chief Justice, on the contrary, expressed his belief that the police honourably and conscientiously discharged their duty. In twenty-eight other counties similar reports had been made by the Judges. So active and energetic had been the constabulary, indeed, within the last few years, that the annual Report of offences, arrests, &c., showed a decrease of offences last year compared with 1862 of more than 1,200. The right hon. Gentleman had spoken of the popula-
 1130 "County Westmeath, Kilbeggan, April 13. "On Sunday night last, about eleven o'clock, James Casey, about twenty years of age, of Boston, county Westmeath, within two miles of Moate, was returning with four others from Ballycumber, in the King's County. Some talk about their respective fighting powers ended in one William Galvin's giving Casey a blow with a large stone held in his fist over the left temple. I saw him on Monday evening, and though perfectly sensible and collected he refuses to say one word about the affair, saying he knows nothing about it. [An hon. MEMBER: That is a common case.] The information of Reynolds, who was of the party and present, clearly fixes it on William Galvin, who, he says, was provoked by Casey. We should have succeeded in arresting Galvin, who has got off, but that Casey's father, who sent for Dr. Mathews, at half past twelve a.m. on Monday morning, never called at the barrack, which was passed on the way to the doctor's, through whom, I understand, the police heard of the affair about noon of Monday last. William Galvin was at his usual employment up to that hour of that day, but did not return to it after dinner hour, for we were near him." "Parsonstown, April 11, 1864. "I have to report that at ten o'clock a.m. on the 1st inst., two men, names unknown, went into a field in the above townland, where Michael Coughlan, his two brothers, and seven men (in the employment of Coughlan) were ploughing, and
 1131 1132
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, What number of Plans have been sent in for the proposed New Museums at South Kensington, where and when he intends to exhibit them, and who are to be the Judges to decide upon them?
 MR. BAZLEY : But the circumstances of our country were very different, and the manufacturers of England could not be fairly dealt with upon the basis of a treaty between France and other continental countries. The right hon. Gentleman seemed to think that our consuls should not be employed in negotiating commercial treaties; but for what better purpose did they keep up their consular and diplomatic establishments, at an expense of half-a-million sterling? Why should those gentlemen be kept in particular positions if they were not to perform duties which would be useful to the country? If foreign Governments were reminded of the advantages of free trade without there being any treaties, a great deal might be done. The vast amount of exports from the country required that more attention should be paid to the interests of commerce. During the last twenty years our imports and exports had quadrupled in amount, while our consular representation remained the same. He did not attribute any blame to the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, nor to the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs, whom he had always found most courteous and attentive to any representations; but until our consular arrangements were amended, our com-
 1120
 MR. BAZLEY  observed, that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Ashton-under-Lyne (Mr. Milner Gibson) had said that France must take the lead upon the Continent in reference to commercial treaties.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : No change has recently taken place in regard to the distribution of Government Offices. It is the same now as it has been for a long time past. The question of the right hon. Gentleman is one which requires examination, and I am not prepared to discuss it off hand, no notice having been given of it.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  begged to observe that there was a very important matter of deep public interest to be disposed of that night, the Report of the Committee of Ways and Means on the Sugar Duties. Very great commercial inconvenience would be experienced if the Report were not brought up that night, and it was then past ten o'clock. He therefore appealed to hon. Members to have the kindness to postpone their observations on the topic now before the House, and on any other subjects of which they might have given notice, to some other evening, as it would be a very great convenience to the public service.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, he could not see any possible reason against issuing the writ. Assuming that Mr. Bruce could not sit as Under Secretary for the Home Department, at any rate he was Member for Merthyr Tydvil, and had now accepted office under the Crown. It was undoubtedly correct, under the circumstances, to move the issue of a writ for Merthyr Tydvil. Even if Mr. Bruce was not a Member of the House, it would be equally necessary to move a writ for Merthyr Tydvil, which could not be left without a representative.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  thought it was inconvenient that a discussion upon the more general Question of which notice had been given should be raised incidentally upon this Motion for a new writ. He was prepared to meet the arguments of hon. Gentlemen opposite when the proper
 1196
 MR. YORKE  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether there exists any extradition Treaty between Austria and Russia; whether his attention has been called to an Order published by General Mensdorf, dated Lemberg, March 16, 1864, and to a similar Order published by General Meckl, dated Cracow, March 12, 1864, ordering all Polish Refugees to be immediately sent back across the frontier; and whether Her Majesty's Ambassador at Vienna has been or will be instructed to use the friendly influence of this country, in order to put a stop to such inhuman practices?
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he had to thank the noble Lord for giving him the opportunity of assuring the House that when he referred to that document on a former occasion, and used the word "unquestionable," his meaning was simply this—that never having heard any suggestion that the document was not what it professed to be, and knowing that it had been placed in the hands of Lord Lyons by Mr. Seward, and sent on that authority by Lord Lyons to Her Majesty's Government, and that it had been referred to, as if substantially trustworthy, in a communication by Mr. Adams to Earl Russell; being ignorant also of the peculiar form in which such documents are presented to the Confederate Congress; and also not being aware at the time that an opinion had been expressed by any person throwing doubt on the genuineness of the document, he, in his simplicity, did assume that the document was what it purported to be. Had it been so, emanating from the Confederate Government, it would undoubtedly have been as he had represented it, of unquestionable authority. His impression was, that the letter of Mr. Adams should be produced. [Mr. LAYARD: No, no; the despatch of Lord Lyons.] He meant, that
 1203
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : Sir, it would have given me much pleasure to hear my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Cambridge University (Mr. Walpole), (who had risen but sat down on there being a call for the Attorney General), before addressing the House on this subject, since I am sure we should all have derived benefit from any observations he might make; and I shall regret if, following me, he should make observations I shall not have the opportunity of answering. But I take it to be the wish of the House that I should
 1236 1237 1238 1239 corpus delicti Anne 1240 Geo Geo Geo 1241 à fortiori 1242
 MR. HENLEY  said, that in the old times of low diet, reports had certainly been made to the magistrates of his county that men occasionally went home out of prison in a weak state not fit for work, though he never recollected anything so
 1257
 MR. EVANS  said, that eighteen months' separate confinement was as much as most prisoners were able to bear, so that the proposal of the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Adderley) was not practical. He did not think that the effect of the lengthened minimum would be to choke the county gaols in the way that was supposed.
 THE O'CONOR DON  said, that the schedule as it stood would prevent female convicts from being sent to refuges, as was now the custom in Ireland. A new clause, of which the right hon. Baronet had given notice, however, would meet that difficulty, and he would not press the Amendment which he had put upon the paper.
 MR. J. J. POWELL (Gloucester)  pointed out the hardship that might arise under this clause, which declared that a ticket-of-leave holder, on being convicted either by the verdict of a jury or upon his own confession of an indictable offence, should be liable to have his licence revoked, and to undergo the unexpired portion of his term of penal servitude in addition to the penalty for the new offence. The clause did not speak of any offence for which the person should have been indicted, but merely of an indictable offence. Now, it was an indictable offence to strike a man, and not the less so because it might be done under the greatest possible provocation—as, for example, where a man struck another for wantonly insulting his wife or his sister in the street. For the offence committed under such circumstances, a magistrate would, perhaps, only inflict a fine of 1 s
 MR. EVANS  remarked that the Irish system depended upon Mr. Organ, who was a man such as was seldom to be met with. He was sorry that he could not support the Amendment.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was against all licences at all, and thought that when you had got a thief the best way was to keep him to work out the full sentence passed upon him. Whether the sentence was one of six months' imprisonment or of six years' penal servitude, he saw no reason why there should be any remission. Being of opinion that the whole system of remission was a mistake, he was also of opinion that the mistake was not mended one bit by supervision, which was mere moonshine. Upon what was it founded? The hon. Member for Salisbury (Mr. Marsh) said, that in Australia employers of labour would sooner engage a thief than an honest man. Did he think that that was the case in England? Hardly. Mr. Organ, the great authority on this subject in Ireland, said he had great difficulty in getting employers of labour there to engage these men, and that, when this difficulty was overcome, it was necessary to keep the thing a secret from the workmen, who would otherwise have made the place too hot to hold them. With our police organization, what chance was there that this could be kept a secret in England? Our workmen did not mind working with a man who had been transported, and who had served his term, for they had a strong
 1268
 LORD NAAS  trusted that an addition would be made to the clause enabling the chief of the police to dispense with the periodical visits of the licence-holders if he were satisfied they were doing well. If no other Member did so, he would give notice of an Amendment to this effect on the Report.
 LORD NAAS  dissented from the opinion of the right hon. Gentleman (Sir Robert Peel), that the House had no right to ask for the production of the memorials to the
 1271
 MR. LYGON  said, he did not intend to oppose the Motion of the hon. Member, but if he insisted upon bringing the proceedings of the Committee under the notice of the House and the consideration of the public, it was impossible that the House should consent to let the matter rest where it was. When the agent of the sitting Member withdrew from the Committee, he stated that he was convinced of the justice of his cause and could establish his case. It was impossible that a Committee should be allowed by an illegal act to come to an illusory conclusion, and defeat the object for which it was instituted. He regretted that the question had been mooted as it had been, because no useful object could be obtained, and injustice might be done to persons who could not defend themselves. He threw upon the Chairman of the Committee all the consequences which might follow the publication of the evidence.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  was understood to state that the first Report of Sir Richard Bromley on the proposed reforms at Greenwich Hospital, together with a letter from the Governor of Greenwich Hospital, were laid on the table of the House, but he did not think it advisable to lay the further communication received from Sir Richard Bromley on the subject upon the table, as it was only a rejoinder to the Report of the Commissioners.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, it was intended to ask for the Vote. He expected to bring the Vote on on Thursday next, but if not, early the following week. He would give notice when the Vote would come on.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL : Sir, I can only begin by expressing my regret that the right hon. Gentleman should have taken the Resolution which I offered to the House and which was accepted by the House last Tuesday as directed personally against himself. The terms of the Resolution were directed against the Committee of Council. It was the practice of the Committee of Council which I desired to censure; and I did not venture to give any information, for I possessed none, as to whether it was the right hon. Gentleman or any other person who was guilty of the practice to which I referred. I think the House will have gathered from the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, that what I laid before them on Tuesday night was entirely supported by the facts. It was a fact that the Inspectors received back their Reports from the Committee of Council, in many cases with the passages; marked, indicating that they were thought objectionable; and it is the fact that whenever they declined to remove the passages so indicated their Reports were suppressed. The right hon. Gentleman has since informed us that that was done by a clerk in the office without his orders. But he must have been perfectly aware of this on Tuesday night. [Mr. LOWE: No.] Was he not? Then I can only regret that he was so little acquainted with the proceedings in his own office.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL : If the right hon. Gentleman had told us on Tuesday night that he was perfectly aware that in
 1212 1213
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he wished to ask a Question, which, at the interposition of the noble Lord at the head of the Government, he had postponed on Friday evening. He wished to know from the Attorney General, Whether he still considers a certain Report alleged to be signed by Mr. Mallory, on behalf of the Confederate Government, as a document of a character entirely unquestionable, as he on a former occasion had described it? He also wished to know whether the Government will lay on the table the Despatch of Mr. Seward with reference to that document?
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, When the Return relative to Religious Instruction in National Schools in Ireland, ordered last Session, and again early this Session, will be laid upon the table?
 MR. AYRTON  said, he was glad the Home Secretary had proposed the Amendment, because, although the question affected the privileges of the House to a great extent, it also affected the seat of an hon. Member, and the House ought not to pronounce an opinion upon the matter without duly investigating it, and giving the hon. Member affected by it an opportunity of being heard by counsel before the Committee. The speech of the right hon. Gentleman opposite, the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Walpole), I had raised many difficulties which did not occur to his mind before. The right hon. Gentleman said that the statutes spoke of the Secretaries and Under Secretaries in the same language. The effect of the construction put upon the statutes by the right hon. Gentleman might be not merely that the fifth Under Secretary must vacate his seat, but that all the Under Secretaries holding new offices might be equally subject to re-election. That was a reason why the House should proceed with great caution, because the later statutes did not declare that the new Under Secretaryships were not new offices. He doubted, after hearing the right hon. Gentleman, whether the reference to the Committee was quite large enough, and it might, therefore, be desirable that words should be added so that no doubt might arise herein.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he must beg to state that, as far as he was aware, Captain Gordon was not in the service of the Futai but of the Chinese Government. He understood that he was continuing in command of the troops which he had disciplined. He was not quite aware of his reasons for that, but he understood that his motive was that he was afraid that if these troops were disbanded great danger might ensue to the settlement of Shanghai.
 MR. LAYARD  replied, that he was not aware of that fact, but he might add that accounts had been received that morning that Her Majesty's Minister at Pekin had made representations to the Chinese Government on the subject.
 MR. DISRAELI : I rise, Sir, to submit a Question of order. As far as I am concerned
 1197
 MR. DISRAELI : My opinion is that in questions of this kind it is highly desirable that the House should not arrive at a decision which might have the appearance of anything approaching to the character of a party proceeding. At the same time, I think that it is of great importance that the House should not act in a timid and hesitating manner. I have indicated the line that I think that the House ought to take, and I understand that the Government to a great extent adopt it. They acknowledge that there has been a violation of the law, and the only point they hesitate at is, whether it has vacated the seat of the Under Secretary of State who was last appointed. I should not object to refer that matter to a Select Committee in the way that has been suggested; but there are one or two points upon which previously I think we ought to have a clear understanding with the Government. It should be clearly understood that the Bill of Indemnity should not be introduced before the Committee come to their decision, and I should like the House to have some understanding us to what is to be the conduct of this fifth Under Secretary of State. I was not indisposed to limit the inquiry to the fifth Under Secretary. But the noble Viscount
 1249
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, it is now my duty, with a little more detail than I ventured to use the other night, to call the attention of the House to a Question of Privilege—arising out of the distribution of offices held by Members of Her Majesty's Government. The House will perceive that the Question is one of great gravity. Already it has led, in a constitutional sense, to considerable inconvenience, and it may, if neglected, produce results of a character so serious that it is difficult at this moment to adequately describe them. And, Sir, my opinion is, that the embarrassing and even dangerous position in which this House is placed in regard to the distribution of offices here— embarrassing certainly to the Ministry, and, as I shall show, dangerous to the House—had its origin in the way the present
 1219 1220 1221 1222 tu quoque 1223 1224 1225 1226 1227 1228 1229 1230 1231 "Notice having been taken by a Member of this House that more than four Under Secretaries of State have been sitting and voting in this House at the same time during the present Session,— Resolved, that the provisions of the 21 & 22  Vict
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, this is the first time that I recollect that a Ministerial explanation has led to a debate. It is extremely irregular, but I will put myself in order if necessary by making a Motion. [ Cries of 1216
 MR. ADDERLEY  rose to move, as an Amendment—
 "That this House is of opinion that the system of discharge of prisoners from Penal Servitude on licence, without police supervision, should no longer be continued." 1251 1252 ipso facto
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he was aware there was nothing about photography in the Bill, but by police regulation that photographic resemblance was to be considered  primâ facie 1253 1254
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. ADDERLEY  thought, that by making the present minimum term of three years more severe—such as two years' imprisonment, and one year on public works—it would be a better introduction to liberty than a longer term of penal servitude.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he should raise the Question in the Estimates, and move that the Vote be omitted.
 MR. NEATE  said, he did not think any ground had been made out for the severer treatment of criminals which it was proposed by this Bill to carry out. He proposed to move the omission of the second clause. The clause proposed to increase the minimum sentence of penal servitude from three years to five years—a change of which no notice was given in the Preamble, and without the attention of the Commission, on whose Report the measure was founded, having been directed to the subject. His objections to the change were first that it was too important an alteration of the penal laws to be made without sufficient notice, and next, that there was no such increase of crime as to justify the measure, notwithstanding the distress in Lancashire and other circumstances. That the number of criminals had increased was true enough, but that increase was sufficiently accounted for by the growth of our population, and by other circumstances. One cause of the increase of crime was the harsh treatment extended to tramps and vagrants in our workhouses; and therefore if we were to review our penal system we ought at the same time to review the Poor Law. One effect of increasing the period of penal servitude would probably be that Judges would frequently, in consequence of the severity, rather sentence to imprisonment for two years; and thus there would be an augmentation in the number of those who came under the system which now prevailed in the county gaol. The system pursued in county gaols was generally one of great severity. Magistrates generally made the arrangements for the management of convicts, and the law which required the sanction of the Secretary of State had become a dead letter. In illustration of what he meant, he referred to the severe arrangements recently made by the magistrates of Hampshire. He might add that he recollected his right hon. Friend the Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) saying, with respect to the system
 1256
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, in reply, that his attention had been directed to the decision in question, and, as a matter of course, the Poor Law Board had accepted it as declaratory of the law. If any parish or union, under entirely similar circumstances, applied to the Poor Law Board, they would be informed that that was the law as it stood on that point.
 MR. C. W. WYNN  said, he wished to know what the probable operation of the alteration of the minimum of imprisonment from three years to five would be upon the number of prisoners to be received into county gaols, and what security the Home Secretary had that this new scale of punishment would be carried out any better than the old scale. According to the Judicial Statistics of 1862–3, of the number of persons convicted of offences for which they were liable to penal servitude for life, one-half had been sentenced to imprisonment; and of those who were liable to penal servitude for fourteen years, three quarters had been sentenced to imprisonment. Of 1,493 persons liable to penal servitude for life, only twenty-three were sentenced to it; and for 218, six months' imprisonment was deemed sufficient. Sentences for terms exceeding ten years were passed only on seventeen out of 4,499, who were liable to fourteen years penal servitude. As a county magistrate, he looked with some apprehension on the working of this second clause. The effect would be that something like three-fourths of those now sentenced to three years' penal servitude, instead of being sentenced hereafter to five years, would be sentenced to imprisonment. The consequence would be that the additional gaol accommodation for long sentences of imprisonment would be required to the extent of at least three-fourths.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY , said he did not think any difficulty could arise on that point; but nevertheless the utmost possible care ought to be taken in the form of the reference to the Select Committee, as it appeared to him the question involved one of the most formidable constitutional points that in his experience had ever arisen in the House. He thought that they ought to make the subject clear and specific, as
 1250
 MR. HUNT  said, that there was nothing in his Amendment which need prevent the noble Lord's suggestion from being adopted. He imagined that the chief constable
 1269
 MR. HUNT  wished for some explanation as to the course the right hon. Baronet proposed to take with regard to the Amendment which he had induced the Committee to adopt.
 MR. HUNT  moved, at the end of the clause, to add the words—
 "If any holder of a licence granted under the said Penal Servitude Acts, or any of them, who shall he at large in the United Kingdom, shall fail to report himself to the chief police station of the borough or district where he shall be on his arrival therein, and subsequently on the first day of each month, or shall change his locality without having previously notified the same to the police station to which he last reported himself, he shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanour, and may be summarily convicted thereof, and his licence shall be forthwith forfeited by virtue of such conviction." 1260 1261 alibi
 MR. HUNT  said, "No" to the observation of the hon. and learned Baronet opposite, that the last Under Secretary appointed was the Marquess of Hartington. As a new Under Secretary for the Colonies had been made within the last few days in consequence of the resignation of the chief of that Department, he (Mr. Hunt) would suggest that the hon. Member for Louth (Mr. Chichester Fortescue) was the last Under Secretary appointed.
 MR. MOOR  said, he should support the Amendment of the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt). He admitted that the subject was surrounded with difficulties; and, so long as transportation was kept in its present suspended state of animation, those difficulties must continue. The only way to meet the matter was to look it in the face. So long as the home-made criminals were turned out upon the country, they must make use of police supervision, for without it neither property would be safe, nor would there be a chance of reclamation for the convicts themselves. The supervision was recommended in the Report of the Royal Commissioners of last year, and he (Mr. Moor) regretted that the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary did not read this paragraph instead of the one immediately succeeding it. The paragraph said that there would be much difficulty in securing efficient supervision on the part of the police, but that this object had now become of such extreme importance that it ought to be attempted. Again, Colonel Henderson, in writing to Mr.
 1265
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he believed it to be quite possible to establish in England the system adopted in Ireland, and Mr. Organ had stated that he would undertake to establish it if the Secretary of State would allow him to try. He hoped the Amendment would be carried, for he thought it would bring about an improvement in the police force. It was disgraceful that every reform had to be dragged from the Government through the aid of those who sat on the Opposition benches.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If the Government intend to introduce this Session any Bill relating to the Ecclesiastical Commission?
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Headlam) had misunderstood the question under discussion. He had assumed that Mr. Bruce was a Member of the House, that he had accepted office under the Crown, and that consequently a writ ought to be issued. But the question raised by the hon. Member for the University of Oxford was, Whether Mr. Bruce had or had not been a Member of the House?
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, the object of the hon. Gentleman opposite was to prevent him from stating the facts, but they had not the power of doing so. Sir Robert Kay having been made President of the College of Cork was also made President of the Dublin Society, obtaining two salaries. He could not help characterizing the whole thing as a complete job.
 MR. WHITESIDE  was proceeding to discuss the propriety of having two institutions—the Dublin Society and the Museum of Industry—situated within six minutes' walk of each other, when the professors were the same, the lecturers were the same, and the subjects were the same, when—
 MR. WHITESIDE  submitted that he was quite in order, inasmuch as when the
 1274
 MR. WHITESIDE  objected to the name of the hon. Member for Galway (Mr. Gregory), and proposed that the name of Mr. Lowe should be substituted.
 MR. BAGWELL  rose to order. The hon. Member for Liskeard was not present.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, it was perfectly true that the House had decided the Question that the Committee should be appointed, and under ordinary circumstances it would be desirable that the discussion should be confined to the names of the Members of whom it should be composed. He understood the right hon. Gentleman to object to some names, and to desire to propose others; it was impossible to prescribe the limits to which the argument of the hon. and learned Gentleman might extend in his endeavour to procure the substitution of one name for another.
 MR. SPEAKER  reminded the hon. and learned Gentleman that the main Question now was the nomination of the Committee.
 MR. SPEAKER : I wish to point out to the House that there is no Question before it. An opportunity of making a personal explanation is granted by the courtesy of the House; but it is not usual that such a matter should be concluded by a Motion, and made the subject of a general debate. I think the House will now agree with me, that all those who can be said to be personally concerned in this discussion have been heard by the House. [ Cries for
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he would beg to ask the noble Lord, whether he will lay on the table the Despatches of Lord Bloomfield on the subject, including his Despatch
 1201
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he wished to ask the President of the Poor Law Board, Whether his attention has been directed to the decision in the Common Pleas on the 5th of February to the effect, "that lands
 1200
 MR. WALTER : Sir, as I must consider myself one of the Members who took a prominent part in the discussion of Tuesday evening, and as I have not yet been heard, I wish, in consequence of what has fallen from my right hon. Friend, to make a very few remarks. I merely rise to say that, after the explanation which my right hon. Friend the late Vice President of the Committee of Council has given, I am sure the House will not think it necessary to adopt the course proposed by the noble Lord at the head of the Government. My own opinion is that, after that explanation, no Committee is required for making further inquiry into the subject. For myself, I wish to state in a very few words the position in which I conceive myself to stand. The House will recollect that when my noble Friend the Member for Stamford brought forward this subject, I was the Member who seconded the Motion. I had, therefore, no opportunity of replying to the speech of my right hon. Friend, and certainly I was not prepared for that unqualified denial which he then gave to the statements of
 1217
 MR. MARSH  said, that in Australia ticket-of-leave holders were preferred by employers because of the stringent supervision that was exercised over them. In those colonies convicts again offending were remitted to prison to complete their original sentence. That was no hardship, because, when a man was sentenced to four years' penal servitude, he ought to undergo the whole of the punishment, and any remission was a favour to him. The hon. Member who spoke last had referred to the sympathy that was felt for liberated thieves. He, also, felt some sympathy for them, but he felt more for those who were robbed. Unfortunately, the current of public sympathy had of late years run in favour of the thieves, and he was glad to think that the humbug was coming to an end.
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL , in moving for Returns connected with the administration of justice in Ireland, said, that in expressing his opinion that things were not in a satisfactory state in that country, he did not wish to make any charge against the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant. He believed that no Gentleman who had ever filled that difficult post had gone to Ireland with better intentions
 1270
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL , in explanation, said, that he did not repeat the phrase made use of on a former occasion by the hon. Member for Liskeard. He said that the terms in which the Castle had been described were strong, but not inappropriate.
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  rose to order, stating that the only Question before the House was the nomination of Mr. Gregory as one of the Committee.
 MR. LOWE : Of course I was aware that up to 1862 this had been done, because I did my best to stop it.
 MR. LOWE : Sir, I have humbly to beg the House to interrupt the course of their proceedings for a few minutes this evening in order to allow me to make a personal explanation upon a matter which I little thought would have called for explanation at my hands. In order to make my meaning plain the shortest possible course is, perhaps, to read to the House a Minute of the Privy Council passed in January, 1861; because I shall have constantly to refer to that Minute in what I have to say, and I think it will facilitate the understanding of the House if I read it to them at once and without comment. The Minute is as follows:—
 "Their Lordships, having considered the instructions issued from time to time to Her Majesty's Inspectors of Schools for the preparation of their annual Reports, find the sum of those instructions to be that the Inspectors must confine themselves to the state of the schools under their inspection and to practical suggestions for their improvement. If any Report, in the judgment of their Lordships, does not conform to this standard, it is to be returned to the Inspector for revision; and if, on its being again received from him, it appears to be open to the same objection, it is to be put aside as a document not proper to be printed at the public expense." "That in the opinion of this House, the mutilation of the Reports of Her Majesty's Inspectors of Schools, and the exclusion from them of statements and opinions adverse to the educational views entertained by the Committee of Council, while matters favourable to them is admitted, are violations of the understanding under which the appointment of the Inspectors was originally sanctioned by Parliament, and tend entirely to destroy the value of their Reports." 1204 1205 1206 1207 1208 1209 1210 1211
 MR. WHITBREAD  thought it would be fatal to the prospects of convicts in this country obtaining honest employment on their discharge if they were bound to report themselves periodically to the police. Sir Richard Mayne, who said he was ready to undertake the supervision of these convicts, added that in doing so he could not prevent employers from knowing who they were. Whatever might be the case in Ireland, in this country, though employers were sometimes willing to employ licence-holders, workmen would turn them out if they knew the men were convicts. Moreover, he did not believe that the fact of a man's reporting himself once a month was any guarantee that, for the remainder of the month, he did not maintain himself by robbery, A man might report himself in London and be operating for the remainder of the month in Glasgow. Such reports offered no real security to society, while they would have the effect of driving these men out of honest employment.
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, the latter observations of the hon. and learned Gentleman (the Attorney General) seem to imply that some censure is cast upon the Government by the terms of the Resolution, for an error of conduct in having appointed a fifth Under Secretary. Now, I think the House will recollect that my right hon. Friend the Member for Bucks most carefully avoided casting any such imputations; and, indeed, he stated in his speech to-night, that he was not going to cast any censure upon the Government; nay more, he added that the whole House, and he himself as well as others, was to blame for not having noticed the illegality before. He adopted, in fact, the humorous observation of the old play as equally applicable to the noble Viscount and himself, "Brother, brother, we are both in the wrong." The only question now is, how are we to put ourselves right; and this is a matter of grave importance—one that concerns the constitution of the House, and in reference to which we ought to take care to put upon record something to prevent a similar illegality or excess of authority from happening again. The noble Viscount seems to think that this could be done simply by a Bill of Indemnity; but I take leave to doubt whether that is the way in which this House ever sets its records right. It has always taken care to put some resolution upon its Journals, declaring its opinion of a matter affecting the privileges of its Members, and its own constitution; and the Motion of my right hon. Friend seems, therefore, to meet exactly the nature of the case. The observation of the Attorney General is that he concurs in the first part of the Motion, that there has been a violation of the Act of Parliament; and it is the latter part of the Motion to which he demurs. My hon. and learned Friend addressed to this Act of Parliament a very refined argument, but I do not think that that argument was sound. My hon. and learned Friend did not bear in mind two things, which if he had done he would have found the question to be plainer and clearer than he has represented it to be. The first thing I should have wished him to bear in mind was, that he should take the Act of Anne in conjunction with the Act of the present Queen; and secondly, that the words of the Act of Anne, "shall be incapable of sitting and voting," are not more strong for vacating the seat than the words of the later statute "shall not sit and vote." The words are nearly synonymous, and
 1244 1245 Geo 1246 1247
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  stated, in reply, that he did not intend to propose to bring within the range of the foreign duty any grain not subject to duty before. He took that opportunity of giving notice that he proposed on Thursday, in Committee of Ways and Means, to move the Resolution relating to Fire Insurances.
 MR. BARROW  asked how soon they might expect to have a penal discipline Bill by which they might judge of the probable effect of imprisonment upon prisoners in county gaols. He felt objection to the abridging of the discretion of Judges and Justices in giving sentences, because he thought it would extravagantly increase the number of prisoners in the county gaols. From his experience of our criminal law he felt a very strong objection to long imprisonments, believing them to be endured with a sullen endurance, and calculated to render criminals still more vicious.
 MR. BEACH  said, the arrangement to which the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Adderley) referred had not yet been reported to the Quarter Sessions, but when they were, they would be reported to the Home Secretary, in accordance with the law. So far from their being of extraordinary severity, they were a compromise between those who held extreme and those who held moderate opinions.
 MR. BEACH  supported the Amendment. It was notorious that at present the conditions of the ticket-of-leave were
 1263 1264
 MR. COGAN  rose to order. The simple Question was the nomination of the Committee, and he submitted that it was not competent to the hon. and learned Gentleman to discuss the merits of the Question.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER : I wish to make an explanation ["Order!"] with respect to the reasons which induced me, and, I think, forty or fifty other Gentlemen, to give the vote which we did the other night. ["Order!"] I wish to make this explanation in justice to the right hon. Gentleman also. I had no idea whatever that the Question under discussion was one affecting the personal veracity or the personal honour of the right hon. Gentleman. I regarded it as one which purely affected the policy of the department, and the course which those who differed from the department were obliged to take. Gentlemen in my district had been very much surprised that, in the Education Report, a Report of an Inspector in whom they had the greatest confidence did not appear. In consequence of that circumstance, the right hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich asked why the Report in question was not produced, and the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Lowe) was
 1218
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he wished to know, whether the Government have received any information as to Captain Gordon having been engaged in the siege of a Chinese town?
 MR. GREGORY  having proposed that the following Members be Members of the Select Committee on Scientific Institutions (Dublin),—
 MR. GREGORY  moved that there be laid before the House—
 "Copy of the Report of Dr. Brodie, Poor Law Inspector in Ireland, dated the 21st day of November, 1861, on the condition of the Western Districts of Galway."
 MR. GREGORY  maintained that, as a public document, written by a public officer, and addressed to a public department, he was entitled to the production of the Report. It described the manner in which a property of enormous extent had been managed in the west of Ireland, by a large public company, during a time of unparalleled distress. His hon. Friend the Member for Mallow (Mr. Longfield) had given notice of his intention to bring forward a Motion upon the same subject. When the Motion of the hon. Member for Mallow came before the House, he should state the contents of the document, and if there was any inaccuracy in his representations of it, the blame must fall not upon him, but upon the person who communicated to him its contents, and who, at the same
 1272
 MR. GREGORY : In that case I shall move that the grant for the Royal Dublin Society be omitted.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether any information has been received at the Foreign Office that Captain Gordon, of the Royal Engineers, who was in command of Chinese troops in the service of the Futai of Shanghai, has condoned the treachery of the Futai in putting to death the Taeping Princes at Soochow and plundering the city, and against which Captain Gordon himself, Major General Brown (commanding the British troops in China), and all the European Consuls at Shanghai had published an indignant protest; whether he has consented to continue in the service of the Futai notwithstanding these indignant protests?
 SIR DAVID DUNDAS  believed that the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire hit a blot when he directed attention to the fact that five Under Secretaries were occupying seats in the House. As far as he could see, the case was this. By the Act, only four Under Secretaries could sit in the House, therefore, as long as there were only four Under Secretaries sitting in the House everything was right; but if a fifth Under Secretary were appointed and sat in the House, he could not lawfully do so. Hence the person in default was the Under Secretary last appointed. That person was not Mr. Bruce, but Lord Hartington.
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in reply, said he had communicated with the Ecclesiastical Commissioners on the subject of the Report of the Select Committee, and, with reference to those Resolutions of the Committee which related to matters of administration that did not necessarily involve a change in the law, the Report of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners was before the House. With regard to those Resolutions which did involve the necessity of a change in the law, the main Question, he believed, was the constitution of the Commission. Now, he was willing to admit, and he apprehended his hon. Friend would agree with him, that the constitution of the Commission was susceptible of improvement. At the same time, he was bound to say that, after a careful consideration, the recommendations of the Committee did not appear to him to suggest the best solution of that Question, or the best course to be taken with a view to the improvement of the constitution of the Commission. At present, therefore, he was not prepared to give notice of any Bill on the subject, but he hoped to be able to do so at a future time, though he could not say that it would be within the present Session. The subject was one of great difficulty, and required very careful consideration.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he understood the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman to be, not that the debate should be postponed owing to any doubt that Mr. Bruce had vacated his seat, but merely that the issue of writ should be deferred till after he had had an opportunity that evening of bringing forward the Question of privilege to which he had referred the other night. He did not understand the right hon. Gentleman to ask for an adjournment till another day. There could be no objection to a postponement till the noble Lord at the head of the Government was in his place. With respect to the doubt as to the seat being vacant because Mr. Bruce has not been sworn a Member of the Privy Council, he believed there had been several instances in which a Gentleman had not been sworn as a Member of the Privy Council until the writ had been moved and the election determined. That was the case in regard to other offices, which were always held by Members of the Privy Council, such as those of the Judge Advocate and even of the Secretaries of State. In all those cases the writs were
 1198
 SIR GEORGE GREY : It is very desirable that the House should come to some satisfactory decision on the matter involved in this discussion. We have heard the statements of the Attorney General and of the right hon. Gentleman opposite, and the Government have considered the question very fully since notice was taken of the circumstance which has given rise to the present debate. They have had high legal opinions, in addition to those of the Law Officers of the Crown, confirming the opinion of the Attorney General that the appointment of a fifth Under Secretary has not rendered his seat vacant, but there can be no doubt that an error has been committed by the fifth Under Secretary being in this House. Under the circumstances, I would suggest that we should avoid committing ourselves by any decision in this House, either to the proposition that the seat is actually vacant —for that may be wrong, and, if so, it is a serious constitutional error—or to the counter-proposition that it is not vacant. After what has passed in debate it appears to the Government to be the proper course that, in accordance with what has been done on former occasions, when a doubt arose whether the acceptance of an office involved the loss of a seat, a Select Committee should be appointed to report their opinion on the point. I will mention two instances when this course was adopted within my recollection. One was the case of Mr. Wynne, than whom there could not be a man with greater constitutional knowledge. Having accepted an office which seemingly involved the loss of his seat, he himself suggested the appointment of a Select Committee to consider the question. At a later period Mr. Daniel Whittle Harvey accepted an office which led to a doubt whether his seat was vacated, and the House, abstaining from committing itself to any declaration of opinion, referred the matter to the consideration of a Select Committee. I might refer to more cases of an analogous nature; and I therefore think that, without committing ourselves to any opinion—for if we do we may be
 1248
 SIR GEORGE GREY  expressed a hope that the right hon. Gentleman would not oppose any obstacle to their proceeding with the Bill that evening. He did not understand the object of the right hon. Gentleman's Resolution as it had been explained that evening. He had at first imagined that the right hon. Gentleman wished the House to express on opinion to the effect that there ought to be strict police supervision over convicts who had been discharged from penal servitude with tickets-of-leave. At present, however, he appeared to wish the House to discountenance altogether the principles of granting tickets-of-leave. There had been a decided feeling in the House in favour of the Bill being read a second time, and he therefore hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would not expect them to go into a long discussion upon the principles of the Bill. He had no desire to enter into a comparison between the effects of the Bill in England and Ireland. If he did so he should be involved in a long discussion which would probably be attended with no good result. The object of the Bill was to enable the Government lawfully to do what it had hitherto not been possible to do in a legal manner—namely, to authorize the police to apprehend the holder of a ticket of leave upon suspicion of having broken its conditions, and to take him before a magistrate for the purpose of having the question adjudicated upon. The right hon. Gentleman had given expression to his views upon the Bill, and any further discussion on what he had stated would, in his opinion, be better postponed to the Committee.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, there was nothing about a photograph in the Act. The policeman was empowered to apprehend a ticket-of-leave man on suspicion of having committed an offence, and demand his ticket.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he did not think it would be expedient for the Committee to adopt the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman, which would establish a continuing supervision over all licence-holders from month to month. The hon. Gentleman
 1262
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, it was his intention to assist the hon. Gentleman in giving effect to the decision of the Committee.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  then moved the addition of a clause (Licences may be granted in Form differing from that in Schedule A).
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that there would be power included in the Bill to inflict the present maximum number, which, he believed, was thirty lashes.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said that, no doubt, an extreme case might he put, however they might shape a Penal Servitude Act. The object was to make the law accord with what was the present practice, for a licence-holder on conviction for an indictable offence almost invariably had his licence revoked. If, however, the indictable offence committed was of so trivial a character as the hon. and learned Gentleman had described, the Judge might represent the facts to the Secretary of State, and there was nothing to prevent the prerogative of the Crown from being exercised so as to temper justice with mercy.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the system referred to by his hon. Friend was found to work extremely well, and he had therefore drawn a clause to prevent any interference with it.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, it was impossible for him to give an answer with confidence to the question of the hon. Gentleman opposite, because where the law, as it must necessarily do to a very great extent, left to the Judges a wide discretion as to the punishment to be awarded to particular crimes, it was impossible to say how the fifteen learned Judges
 1258
 SIR GEORGE GREY  denied that it was in the power of magistrates to make what rules they pleased for the government of county gaols, without the sanction and approval of a superior authority. As to this clause, there was no point upon which the opinion of the Royal Commission was more decidedly expressed, or upon which those witnesses who were entitled to speak with authority on the subject, were more unanimous than that the minimum of penal servitude ought to be increased. He had stated, on a former occasion, to what extent the sentences of three and four years' penal servitude were passed, contrary to what was the intention of the Legislature when they sanctioned those short sentences. The Commission were fully justified in their recommendation that the term should be increased, upon the ground that there should be a substantial distinction between the sentence of penal servitude and the sentence of imprisonment; but the Bill did not go to the full length of the Report of the Commissioners, for their proposal was that the minimum should be seven years.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the proposed Amendment, if agreed to, would be inconsistent with the power taken to revoke a licence, which could only be done within the United Kingdom, and he feared that it would give rise to great dissatisfaction in the colonies.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that when his right hon. Friend consulted him as to the production of this Report, he said if any Parliamentary ground could be assigned by all means let it be produced, not alone but with all the correspondence connected with it. At the same time, he said that, as it related to events which occurred three years ago, and contained imputations upon the manager of the Law Life Institution, which were answered in a letter from that Society, he thought that unless some present ground could be shown, it would be unreasonsable to go back three years and produce that correspondence. He was not then aware that there was any Motion relating to the Company pending. [Mr. GREGORY: It was on the paper.] If the hon. Gentleman, instead of reserving his observations, had stated why he wanted the paper, he would have had no occasion to make the speech which he had just delivered. When the Report, the character of which his hon. Friend had, he thought, somewhat exaggerated, was sent to him, he wrote officially to the secretary of the Institution, and nothing would give him more satisfaction than that his letter and the reply should be laid before the House. He hoped that there would be no objection to the production of the Report together with the "Correspondence connected therewith."
 MR. ADAIR  moved—
 "That the Minutes of the Proceedings of, and the Evidence taken before the Select Committee on the Lisburn Election Petitions should be printed"— 1273
 MR. CAIRD  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, What are his intentions with reference to the Duty on low-priced Corn? It was a matter of great importance, and it would be satisfactory to the trade to know exactly what the right hon. Gentleman intends doing.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, To lay on the table of the House a Copy of a Letter from Sir Richard Bromley, dated 9th April, and a Letter from the Governor of Greenwich Hospital, dated 11th April, on the proposed reforms at Greenwich Hospital. He also wished to know, when Sir Richard Bromley's Report on Greenwich Hospital will be produced?
 MR. HIBBERT  said that, with the exception of the reduction in diet, he saw very little improvement in the present Bill over the old system.
 MR. HIBBERT  moved to leave out after "large" the words "in the United Kingdom." One of the greatest services that could be rendered to licence-holders was to assist them in emigrating to the colonies. The Discharged Prisoners' Aid Society was willing to assist in this good work, and his object in proposing this Amendment was to enable the licence holders to emigrate legally.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, the Home Secretary had referred to a division which had taken place in the Commission upon a Motion of his right hon. Friend (Mr. Walpole). Had he (Sir John Pakington) been present upon that occasion he should certainly have supported that Motion. Speaking of the discharge of convicts under licence, the Commission said—
 "We believe, on the contrary, that this system, coupled with a general prolongation of sentences
 1266 "That those who may be unfit to go (to Western Australia), but may earn an abridgment of their punishment, and who may consequently be discharged at home under licence, should be placed under strict supervision till the expiration of the terms for which they were sentenced, and that the necessary powers should be given by law for rendering this supervision effectual." 1267
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he wished to ask the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether, after the papers that have been laid upon the table, it is the intention of the Admiralty to persevere, and ask the House for a Vote of money towards the construction of the proposed docks at Malta, and, if so, when the Vote will come on?
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he did not feel himself justified in according more than the first and third portions of the hon. Member's Motion. The men referred to by the hon. Gentleman were sentenced to two years' imprisonment, and the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland thought fit, in the exercise of his prerogative, to remit the last three or four months of their sentences, lie did not think that the House should call the prerogative into question. With regard to the observations which had been made by the hon. Member for Liskeard about the Castle, if he had been in the House he should not have allowed them to pass.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, in reply, that the Returns for which the hon. Gentleman asked were very voluminous. They were received at the Castle on Saturday last, and would, he hoped, be presented in a few days.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  would refer to what had been said by the hon. Member the mover of the Resolution. He had thought fit to repeat the statement that the Castle was a sink of iniquity. He held that such language was unsuitable to the House, and ought not to be used by hon. Members. Had he been in the House at the time the statement was originally made he should have entered a strong protest against it, and he felt certain that the House would not endorse the opinion held by the hon. Member for Liskeard.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he was sorry to oppose the Motion of the hon. Gentleman. The Report, however, contained reflections upon the management of certain property, and he believed its production, after the lapse of three years, would not be fair to the parties concerned. It would only have the effect of raking up old sores without producing any good result.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  suggested that, as the number of lashes which might be inflicted on a prisoner was not specified, the words "a number not exceeding fifty" should be introduced into the clause.
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  said, he did not wish to throw any unnecessary difficulty in the way of issuing the new writ, but the House should observe that the Motion now made was connected with a question of some importance, which had already been brought before them. As the question might arise, which of the five Under Secretaries had infringed the provisions of the Act regulating the number who could hold seats at one time, he would suggest whether it might not be expedient to adjourn the present debate for a day in order to give time for the consideration of the other and more important point. The Motion for a new writ assumed that Mr. Bruce was at present, or, at all events, had been till very recently, a Member of the House; but that was a question which stood for discussion to-night. He moved the adjournment of the debate.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I will look into the Despatches, and see whether there is anything which, consistently with the public service, can be laid on the table. If so, it will be laid before the House.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, we are not aware of any treaty between Austria and Russia for the surrender of criminals. There may be some military arrangement about deserters that we do not know of. But when our Ambassador at Vienna reported to us that the state of siege and martial law had been proclaimed in Galicia, we were informed that any Russian subjects who were in Galicia and were provided with proper passports, were to be allowed to stay there if they showed that it was necessary for their private affairs that they should do so; and those who had not done this were to be required to go to some other part of the Austrian dominions. But it did not appear by that edict that there was to be any surrender of such persons to the Russian Government.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, nothing can be more painful than the discussion which has just taken place. If there be one thing more painful than another to a generous mind, it must be to see an honourable, able, and upright man defending himself before an Assembly like this, against a condemnation which he considers to have been passed upon him, but which he knows to be unjust and unfounded. Sir, the noble Lord who has just sat down has said that if he had been aware on Tuesday night of what my right hon. Friend has now stated, the result would have been different; but let me ask the noble Lord whether it did not occur to him, that when one makes a charge against another it might be well to ascertain by Ml inquiry whether that charge was just
 1214 1215
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : With reference to what has been said by the right hon. Gentleman about the Bill of Indemnity, I have no objection to postpone that until after the Committee has reported.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, there are some things stated by the right hon.
 1232 1233 1234 1235
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the subject to which the hon. and gallant Member had referred was one on which there could be no doubt whatever among those who were conversant with the law and practice of Parliament. The hon. and gallant Member who had just addressed the House had fallen into the mistake of confounding two things which were essentially distinct—the acceptance of an offer of an office, and the completion of the appointment. By the law the thing which caused a seat to be vacated was the acceptance of an offer of office; and what constituted such an acceptance had been repeatedly brought before the House. It had been determined over and over again that a vacancy, under the Act of Queen  Anne 1289
 MR. GRANT DUFF  said, it seemed to him that as far as England was concerned, the whole pith and marrow of the controversy lay in the question whether the  casus foederis 1322 hinc illoe lacrymoe 1323
 MR. COWPER  said, there were no Instructions given.
 MR. KINGLAKE  said, it was with the greatest reluctance that he rose on that occasion after the leaders of the House on either side had spoken; but as he had an Amendment on the paper, he thought it his duty to address a few words to the House. The noble Lord who had just sat down had stated that the near approach of the Conference forced upon him so great a reserve that anything like free discussion on his part was all but impossible. But the Amendment which he (Mr. Kinglake) had put upon the paper was in the interest of that very reserve. It was founded on the fact that the noble Lord a few days ago, well knowing that the Conference was about to meet, came down to the House and prejudged the question by
 1373 1374 1375
 LORD NAAS  observed, that hon. Members on his side of the House had no wish to obstruct the public business, but the Bill was one of enormous importance, and the House ought to be informed of the reasons which induced the Government to propose it.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  submitted that, as the Bill was introduced for the purpose of carrying out the recommendations of a Royal Commission, it was not necessary to make a detailed statement on the Motion for the first reading.
 COLONEL DUNNE  moved the adjournment of the House.
 MR. A. F. EGERTON  said, he should support the Amendment, because he thought it a very proper one. The hon. Member for Liskeard (Mr. Osborne) appeared to have derived his arguments from German sources. Certainly he had taken entirely the German view of the subject. But the House should remember that there was the Danish view of the question, in support of which arguments of great weight might be adduced. The Amendment referred both to the course to be taken in the future and to that which had been taken by past diplomacy. So far as the policy of the noble Earl at the head of the Foreign Office was peace he entirely concurred with the object, and he did not think that any one who considered the subject would be of opinion that at any period of the dispute there had been a sufficient  casus belli 1320 casus belli casus belli "It will be for the neutral Powers to support the engagements of 1851–2 with the modifications adapted to present circumstances, and suggest such an organization of the monarchy as may lead to the permanence of the power and the strength of Denmark as an independent State. 1321
 VISCOUNT ENFIELD : I wish, Sir, to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether it be true that a Treaty has been concluded between France and Cambodia (or that portion of Cambodia which is tributary to Siam), the provisions of which tend to an entire exclusion of all Foreigners from that country
 1287
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he fully concurred in the opinion which had been expressed by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate), that it was most desirable to maintain the integrity of Denmark. He regretted that the forms of the House precluded the hon. Member for Bridport from bringing forward his Amendment before the other had been disposed of, but he felt disposed to vote against the Amendment of his hon. Friend (Mr. Peacocke), because it asked the House to support the Government in maintaining the Treaty of 1852. As a Conservative Member of a constitutional House of Commons, he could not recognize the right of a constitutional Sovereign so far to step beyond the limits of the constitution as to violate the very condition of his sovereignty, and still less could he recognize the right of a democratic majority to tyrannize over, to stifle, and to suppress, the national rights of an independent people. In arguing this question of the Duchies, he begged to remind the Liberal party that they were treading on very tender ground. It had been said that we must not question the Treaty of 1852, because it now formed part of the public law of Europe. But, if it could be shown that the peace of Europe had been imperilled by the operation of that law, was it not, he would ask, time that it should form the subject of reconsideration? It was a law, he believed, which, in Parliamentary language, had been hastily framed and very inadequately discussed, and he desired to see it recommitted for the purpose of being amended. But be that as it might, the acts of Frederick VII. in 1851–2 were, he con-
 1348 1349 Cries of 1350
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, he was of opinion that Irish Bills of importance ought not to be brought in without that full and clear explanation which was invariably given in the case of English measures.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  was not disposed to enter upon the ancient history of the question, but would confine himself to the blue-books which were before the House. There was one element of the Question which must be considered before a proper conclusion could be arrived at, and that element was the character of those persons who had been brought upon the scene—the  dramatis persona "The public mind of Germany has been roused and inflamed by a view of this question of the German Duchies, going far beyond the claims of the Diet of Frankfort. That view contemplates the re-annexation of Schleswig to Holstein, and the incorporation of Schleswig, as well as Holstein, in German territory. The parties who favour this view are closely connected with the 'active party in Europe.'… That active party is eager to promote changes in Germany, which … can only be brought about by civil war and revolution." "There can be little doubt that the Schleswig-Holstein agitation was a revolutionary movement, got up by the party who are desirous of subverting the existing order of things." 1324 1325 1326 "Not a question of the Patent now, but of separating Schleswig and Holstein for the benefit of the Prince of Augustenburg." "He (M. Hall) must confess it appeared that it would be now considered, by Germany, quite illusory to do so (to withdraw the Patent); because, since the passing of the Constitution, the Patent had become of very little importance." 1327 "M. de Bismark said, that the popular feeling throughout Germany was so violently excited … and the feeling in most of the minor States wag so strong on the Schleswig-Holstein question, that the thrones of the Sovereigns of those States would be in danger if they attempted to oppose the wishes of the people." "Count Rechberg said, he considered the smaller States to be acting under the direction of the National Verein, and to be rapidly passing into a state of democratic revolution." "To acknowledge the popular voice by adopting some half measure, seems (to the Prussian Government) to be the only safe course which is open to the Government; and they maintain that an Execution in Holstein … would prevent any revolutionary movements in the Duchy … The danger of war abroad is preferable to the certainty of revolution at home." "Count Rechberg said, one of the most important objects of Austria was to prevent revolution. … Both Governments feel intense alarm at the progress which the spirit of democratic revolution is making. 1328 "The most violent language was held against the two great German Powers. The policy of Austria and Prussia was characterized as 'treason, to Germany.… No chance was now left to the minor German States, but that of accepting the thraldrom of the two German Powers, or of civil war." "Assumes a more and more authoritative tone, … and are now doing their best to excite to armed resistance against Austria and Prussia." "The German Powers were, he knew, persuaded that it was useless to negotiate with any ministry of which he (M. Hall) was the head." "Count Rechberg said, that as long as M. Hall was at the head of the Danish Government, the chances of an arrangement as to Schleswig would be next to impossible." 1329 "M. de Bismark has distinctly stated that the occupation of Schleswig by the forces of Austria and Prussia, is undertaken with a view to the maintenance of the Treaty of 1852, for the integrity of the Danish Monarchy." "The march of this large force could not be stopped… If they did halt on the Eider, the excitement produced thereby in Germany would become uncontrollable, and might lead to civil war." "The agitation has been adroitly seized upon by the leaders of the National Verein and democratic party to create an organization, which will hereafter be used for other purposes, which are probably preparing more serious embarrassments for the Government of the Confederation than any which they have yet had to encounter since the year 1848." 1330 "The fear of the revolutionary party is becoming every day greater, and … is weakening the effervescence in favour of the Schleswig-Holstein cause.… The German Governments are beginning to pause and reflect on the dangers of a schism in Germany, which may eventually lead to the triumph of the democratic party, and the destruction of the minor Sovereignties." "A fear of the revolutionary party has lately produced a desire for a better understanding between the minor States of Germany and the two Great German Powers." 1331 "Striving against his quiet all he can To gain the title of a busy man; And what is that, but one whose restless mind Is made to tire himself and all mankind."
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, that it would perhaps have been better if the Question had not been brought before the House on the eve of a Conference; but the Question having been introduced by his hon. Friend the Member for Liskeard, in a speech remarkable for eloquence and close reasoning, and the debate evidently promising to occupy the whole night, he was prepared to take part in it. His own opinion was that it was not so much a question of Schleswig, Holstein, and Denmark, which had been truly called a most complicated question, and one that, as his hon. Friend had said, had nearly driven one man mad, but he thought it very desirable that an opportunity should be taken of pointing
 1337 1338 "The mode of proceeding suggested by his Lordship would be in a great measure analogous to the course pursued by Great Britain and France on the Polish question. He had no inclination to place France in the same position with regard to Germany as she had been placed in with regard to Russia. The formal notes addressed by the three Powers to Russia had received an answer which literally meant nothing, and the position in which those three great Powers were now placed was anything but dignified; and if England and France were to address such a reminder as that proposed to Austria, Prussia, and the German Confederation, they must be prepared to go further, and to adopt a course of action more in accordance with the dignity of two great Powers than they were now doing on the Polish question." 1339 "Stop all acts of hostility, if any are now being carried on, and be satisfied with the present state of military occupation in Holstein." "After listening to the proposal, M. Drouyn de Lhuys asked what was to be done should Germany refuse to suspend hostile operations?" "If unsuccessful, each Power will be at liberty to pursue the course which its own honour and its own interests may seem to demand." The Rivals "Having been informed that insurmountable difficulties have arisen as to the restitution to the Crown of Sweden of the island and principality of Rugen, of the fortress of Stralsund, and of the rest of Pomerania as far as the river Pehne, which are occupied by the Crown of Denmark, unless it should be assured of the possession of Schleswig, which His Britannic Majesty has already guaranteed, the most Christian King has thought it well, for these considerations, and on the representations of the Kings of Great Britain and of Denmark, to grant to that latter Crown, as he does by these presents, the guarantee of the Duchy of Schleswig, promising, in consideration of the above-stipulated restitutions, in the treaty signed this day at Stockholm by the plenipotentiaries of Sweden, to maintain the King of Den-
 1340 "Upon the maintenance of the union between Holstein and Schleswig, the Federal Diet cannot exercise any imaginable influence, for this reason—that the Duchy of Schleswig does not belong to the German Federal territories, and consequently lies altogether beyond the influence of the Confederation." "Why," said this appeal, "does Denmark continue an apparently hopeless struggle? Why does she not succumb to a superior force, and accept any peace she can obtain? Surely there can be no dishonour in giving way before so many. Thus speak none of the high-minded and generous nations of Europe—none of those who, from far and near, from north, from south, from west, have shown a hearty sympathy for the struggling Danish people, which has raised its courage and imparted loftiness to its soul. But these questions may be asked by statesmen who stand coldly by and see a nation bleed to death in fighting for its rights, its independence; by men who, totally dead to feeling for their own people, only seek to escape from the obligations they are bound in honour and by treaty to fulfil. To such men our answer is ready. As the matter now stands, Denmark cannot yield; not only for her honour's sake, but because her existence as an independent nation is at stake." 1341
 MR. LAYARD  said, he rose to address the House with great reluctance, for it appeared to him extraordinary, and not very desirable, that within a few hours of the time when a Conference was to meet to discuss questions of the greatest importance, those questions should be made the subject of debate in the House of Commons. He had no wish to curtail the privileges of the House. Every matter in which the Government were engaged was a fair subject of discussion in that place, but still he thought that when questions of such enormous importance were about to be considered by the assembled representatives of Europe, the present debate ought to have been avoided. The House must feel that he rose under great difficulties, inasmuch as, under other circumstances, he might be at liberty to say a great deal which on that occasion would be left unsaid, from a fear of prejudging matters that would shortly be deliberated upon elsewhere. He need hardly remind the House that the questions under consideration were of the greatest possible importance, to be discussed with calmness, and not treated with the rollicking rhetoric in which the hon. Member for Liskeard was so fond of indulging. [ Cries of 1351 Cries of ipse dixit 1352 1353 1354 lex regia lex regia 1355 1356 Ironical cheers 1357 de facto employés 1358 1359 A laugh 1360
 MR. LAYARD : Sir, a treaty has been concluded between France and Cambodia; but I have not seen the treaty, and I am not able to state its provisions exactly. Still there is reason to believe that there are provisions in it which imply that exclusive privileges would be given to French subjects over those of other nations. The matter has been called to the attention of the French Government, and Her Majesty's Government have received an assurance from the French Minister of Foreign Affairs, that if there are provisions in the treaty which bear this interpretation, they have been inserted inadvertently; that it was the desire of the French Emperor that it should bear the most liberal interpretation, and that it should not grant any exclusive privileges. The French Government are willing to deal with all other nations in the matter of treaties with the greatest liberality, and that they should be carried out in the same spirit as treaties entered into by the British nation, namely, that the privileges extended to British subjects should be equally extended to all other nations.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I wish to express to the House the reasons that have induced me to give notice of moving the Previous Question on the Motion of the hon. Member for Liskeard, in case, as I anticipate, I shall have an opportunity of so doing. And I am desirous on the part not merely of myself, but of many who sit on this side of the House, to take as early an opportunity in the discussion as I can for giving those reasons, because it has been said that proposing the Previous Question in this discussion implies a certain degree of confidence in the foreign policy of Her Majesty's Government. Now, Sir, as I am very much indisposed to gain any votes under false pretences, I beg to state that I have no confidence whatever in the foreign policy of Her Majesty's Government, and that I was animated in no degree by sentiments of that kind in giving a notice of this contingent character. Sir, I think the foreign policy of Her Majesty's Government, especially during the last twelve months, such as to occasion very just and grave anxiety and apprehension in this country. I think the course pursued with regard to the insurrection in Poland — a matter intimately connected with this affair of Denmark—the course pursued in that matter was one which certainly disentitled the Government to the confidence of this House. Sir, I have before referred to the total want of system which seems to characterize the management of our foreign affairs by the present Administration. I think the climax of mismanagement was reached in the conduct of the Government with respect to the Polish insurrection, and its diplomatic communications on that subject, both with France and Russia. The noble Lord, on a previous occasion when I expressed that opinion, said I was dissatisfied with the Government because they had not gone to war with Russia in the interests of Poland. Sir, although I may, and believe every one in this House must, feel
 1361 1362 1363 1364 1365 1366 1367 1368
 MR. DISRAELI : I beg to move the Previous Question.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that he hoped to be permitted to make a few comments on the speech of the hon. Member for Liskeard, who had condemned the pertinacity of the noble Lord at the head of the Government in adhering to the Treaty of 1852 as a guarantee for the independence of Denmark. He (Mr. Newdegate) was afraid, that the observations he was about to make might entail upon him the accusation of entertaining low and selfish motives. But he held that England never intervened with respect to foreign nations for an idea; and it was his opinion that England had a deep interest in the maintenance of the independence of Denmark. He deprecated senseless interference with foreign nations as much as anyone; but he could not forget that this country had very large commercial interests, and that it had always been her policy to defend them. With that view England maintained possession of Gibraltar on the extremity of the Spanish Peninsula. He had never heard any thinking man contest the propriety of England holding Gibraltar. It had always been conceded that the possession of Gibraltar was necessary to this country, in order to secure the free navigation of the Mediterranean; and he believed that the independence of the Power which commanded the Sound, the mouths of the Elbe, and all the ports that were within the reach of Denmark, was the best gua-
 1342 1343 1344 plebiscite
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH : I desire to put a Question to the noble Lord at the head of the Government with respect to a matter on which it is fitting that the Government should have the opportunity of offering explanations that may take the place of the uncertain rumours now occupying the public mind. It is confidently stated that the reason of the termination—or rather of the interruption — of the visit of General Garibaldi to this country, unexpected as it is, and by no means confirmed by those who have had the opportunity of seeing the General this afternoon—it is confidently stated that the curtailment of the visit is due to a suggestion of the Government. And it is also inferred in the minds of some, that the suggestion of Her Majesty's Government is the result of a suggestion from other quarters. I therefore take this opportunity of putting a Question to the noble Lord on the subject, which, I have no doubt, he will be able to answer in a satisfactory manner, in order to put an end to rumours which will spread through Europe, and which would be extremely injurious to the character of any Government. I beg, then, to ask the noble Lord, Whether Her Majesty's Government have made any suggestion to General Garibaldi to induce him to curtail his visit to England?
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, that the course proposed by the Government was often pursued with reference to Scotch Bills.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he wished to submit a Question to Mr. Speaker relating to Parliamentary usage and law. On the previous night a writ was moved for the borough of Merthyr Tydvil; and the ground alleged for that place being vacant was, that the hon. Member who represented it had accepted the office of Vice President
 1288 Vict
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, that after the able, comprehensive, and convincing speech of the hon. Member for Liskeard, he should not think it necessary to trouble the House with many details. He wished, however, to address a few words to Her Majesty's Government, with a view, if possible, of extracting from them a declaration of the principles upon which they acted when intervening in the affairs of foreign countries. He was desirous of asking them for some explanation of the strange inconsistency which was the characteristic of their foreign policy. There could be no doubt that in the month of
 1332 casus belli 1333 1334 "We are not bound by any guarantee to maintain the stipulations of that Treaty of 1852. For instance, if we have to choose between its modification and the commencement of a war, uncertain in its duration and dubious as to its results, to speak frankly, we should prefer the former alternative; and in saying this we are only following in the footsteps of Great Britain, who in 1830 thought it better to consent to the separa-
 1335 "That the comparison would not hold good unless his Excellency could show that the same sentiments animated the Schleswig-Holsteiners as had been demonstrated by both the Belgians and the Italians. The Belgian revolution had been the work of the Belgians themselves; their desire to separate from Holland had been unmistakable. The aspirations of the Italians for unity had been the demonstration of a whole people, whereas there was every reason to believe that the present movement in the Duchies was mainly the result of foreign interference, and that the sentiment which generally pervaded the Duchies was not for separation from Denmark, but for the maintenance of close relations between themselves." 1336
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, he rose for the purpose of moving an Amendment slightly altered from the form in which it stood on the paper. Seeing that there were two other Amendments on the paper, the House was likely to have full opportunity of discussing the Question, he regretted he could not adhere to the course of the right hon. Gentleman who was about to move the Previous Question. If that motion was made and agreed to, the country would be under the impression that hon. Gentlemen on the Conservative side of the House had no policy, and that the House itself had no opinions on the question. He should like to know, whether the Amendment of the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire had the assent of the gallant General the Member for Huntingdon, who some nights back promised the House and the country a speedy opportunity of discussing the matter. The "Previous Question" was an efficient mode of stifling discussion. Her Majesty's Government would have such a Motion with pleasure, as it would amount to a vote of confidence in the Government in a modified and diluted form. If they said they would not express any opinion as to what policy the Government pursued, it proved that they had no inconsiderable confidence in those who administered affairs; and he had no doubt that that was the spirit in which the Government would receive the proposition. He thought the House was called upon to express an opinion as to what policy ought to be pursued in the approaching Conferences; and he intended, therefore, to move, in order to give the House an opportunity of expressing an opinion upon it, the following Amendment—
 "That in the opinion of this House it is the duty of Her Majesty's Government, at the approaching Conferences, while calling upon Denmark to fulfil the promises which she made to the two great German Powers in 1851–2, to maintain the provisions of the Treaty of London of 1852, so
 1316 status quo ante bellum 1317 1318 1319
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, he wished to ask how the question really stood. As he understood it, the hon. Gentleman the Member for Liskeard did not press his Motion, and consequently his (Mr. Peacocke's) Motion was gone.
 MR. PEACOCKE : On the understanding that the Original Motion be withdrawn.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he must protest against the Bill being brought in without any statement of the places which it purposed abolishing, and, above all, of the places which it would create.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that those entrusted with the business of the country were not taking a wise course in endeavouring to force laws upon Ireland, the nature of which they would not state.
 MR. WHITESIDE  remarked that he had introduced several Irish Bills, but he had never ventured to introduce a Bill of such importauce as the present one without a word of discussion.
 MR. SPEAKER : Does the hon. Member propose to withdraw his Amendment?
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the Amendment had been withdrawn by the consent of the House; but as the House did not consent to the withdrawal of the Original Motion, the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) would have an opportunity of moving the Previous Question.
 MR. GEORGE  said, the Bill involved matters of very considerable importance, and had reference to the abolishment and creation of offices. He thought it was due both to the House and to the public that some explanation should be offered on the introduction of the Bill.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that hon. Members had not yet had time to read the Report of the Royal Commission; and he therefore begged to move the adjournment of the debate.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, that before the Question was put he wished to know how they were to vote. There were two Amendments before the House as well as the Motion of the hon. Member for Liskeard. Now he intended to vote for the Previous Question, but what he wished to know was, whether in order to do so they must not first vote against the Motion of the hon. Member for Maldon, and then, as it were, for the Motion of the hon. Member for Liskeard, and afterwards, when the original Motion was put, to vote in favour of the Previous Question.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : I think I shall simplify the Question very much by saying that I am so satisfied with the discussion which has taken place, so satisfied with the reserve which has been displayed by the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs, who has come out to-night in a new character as the representative of decency and delicacy, so satisfied with the reserve of the noble Lord, and above all, so convinced that this Treaty of 1852 is a dead letter,
 1376 Cries of
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : I beg to withdraw my Motion. ["No, no!"]
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Whatever, Sir, may be the faults or shortcomings attributed to the House of Commons, I can hardly think it can be attributed to us amongst them that we are of an impatient or inquisitive turn of mind; for, though professing the greatest interest in the sanguinary contest now going on in the North of Europe, sympathizing and in many instances subscribing to the necessities of the Danes, in spite of five bulky volumes having been published, containing 1,215 despatches, no inquiry has been made into these bulky volumes, and no discussion has yet taken place upon the policy pursued by Her Majesty's Government. Whatever else then may be attributed to me, I do not think it can be said that I am acting in a premature manner in bringing this subject under the consideration of Parliament. In doing so I shall endeavour to avoid all the genealogical and all the other mystifications by which it has been endeavoured to sink this case of Schleswig-Holstein. I know it has been laid down on the highest authority in this House, that this case of Schleswig-Holstein is above the comprehension of the ordinary Parliamentary intellect. The mysteries of this Eleusis none but the favoured hierophants of the Cabinet can unravel or explain. On
 1293 1294 1295 1296 1297 "Considering that the maintenance of the integrity of the Danish monarchy is bound up with the general interests of the balance of power in Europe, and is of high importance for the preservation of peace, it is unanimously resolved, at the invitation of His Majesty the King of Denmark, that the possessions at present under the Crown of Denmark should be maintained in their integrity; consequently they recognize the wisdom of the views which have determined the King of Denmark to regulate the order of succession and manner of facilitating the arrangements, and the means by which the integrity of the Danish monarchy shall remain intact." 1298 "A good deal had passed in regard to these points. But Her Majesty's Government had studiously and systematically held themselves aloof from taking any share in these negotiations. Her Majesty's Government had confined themselves strictly to the mediation which they undertook; which was a mediation for the purpose of bringing about a restoration of peace between Denmark and the Germanic Confederation."—[3  Hansard 1299 "Her Majesty's Government cannot but consider that in an arrangement affecting the succession to German as well as to Danish States, the acquiescence of the Germanic Confederation would
 1300 "You have thrown the whole Court of Denmark into confusion." "It is my duty not to conceal from your Lordship the unfavourable effect of the proposition you lave made. The Danish Minister came to me evidently harassed by a long previous discussion with his colleagues, and I had, therefore, more difficulty to satisfy him by expressing my opinion that he had given a false interpretation to your Lordship's despatch." "You were quite right in expressing the opinion that M. de Bluhme had given a false interpretation to my despatch. Her Majesty's Government do not require or expect that either the Diet or the Duke of Augustenburg should be made parties to the proposed arrangement as to the succession to the Crown of Denmark." 1301 "In attempting to break the legitimate succession in the Duchies, violently, and without a free renunciation on the part of those concerned, the dangerous principle of arbitrary power is installed in the place coexisting rights, the seeds of future insurrections will be sown in favour of legitimacy. I pray your Majesty may at any risk keep free from establishing the principle of 'integrity not in existence, but intended to be artificially created.' " "King Frederick William IV. long resisted the pressure of Russia, and of influences in the pay of Russia, urging him to sign the Treaty of 1852. I well remember my father's observation on that treaty:—'the first cannon-shot in Europe will annihilate this bungling piece of business.' " 1302 1303 "The town of Kiel has also no newspaper, except an insignificant sheet appearing three times a week, and carefully avoiding polities. The Duchy is, in fact, not allowed to have a press of its own, and is obliged to vent its complaints through the journals of other German States, as opportunities occur. The abolition of the censorship, proclaimed by the Royal ordinance of March, 1848, is merely nominal, for as every paper appearing without special permission, or containing objectionable matter, is immediately seized by the police, no man dares to publish anything without the previous approval of the Government functionaries; while in Denmark, on the contrary, since 1849 the press has enjoyed a very high degree of liberty, which it abuses often enough." "The feeling of all classes of the inhabitants of Holstein, from the nobility down to the common people (and I have had many opportunities of observing it), is equally strong against the partial and unjust system of government pursued by the Danes, and it is pretty certain that they will never rest satisfied until they have obtained guarantees for the protection of the German nationality within the monarchy, and for placing it on a footing of at least equality with the Danish race." "The practical grievances of that Duchy as regards its constitution, finances, administration, and exclusive employment of Danish functionaries, are in all respects the same as those of Holstein, with the addition of that most serious evil, the systematic forcing of the Danish language upon the German portion of the inhabitants." "The Danish police in the Duchy is not only rigorous, but highly aggressive, in its treatment of the German inhabitants; consequently, it is not easy to see how the grievance of the language, or indeed any other grievance, is to be redressed so long as the corporate relations exist which have been forcibly established  de facto "I submit, that what the great Powers have to consider is, not what the Danes are willing to agree to, but what they reasonably ought to agree to, considering the actual legal position of Holstein as a German State, the engagements entered into by the King with both Schleswig and Holstein, and the impossibility of making the people of those Duchies permanently submit to the exclusive rule of the Danish race." 1304 "Most of the clergymen are Danes, and some of them, by the admission even of their own colleagues, are but imperfectly acquainted with the German language, in which, nevertheless, they have to deliver a sermon every alternate Sunday. With few exceptions, they appear abitrary in small matters, and consider their principal duty to be to force the Danish language upon their congregation, instead of propagating the Christian faith. In consequence they are generally more shunned and feared than respected and loved by their parishioners, and their churches are almost empty when Divine service is held in Danish, and indifferently attended when the service is German. I saw a few clergymen who made exceptions to the general rule. Their humane conduct was fully appreciated, and their churches were better attended, though the cause they were obliged to advocate was not more popular. I have, however, good reason to believe that such men run some risks of losing their appointments for want of 'zeal.' " "That the espionage of the police and gendarmes is great, and that they annoy and irritate the population at large, I had evidence of during my journey, and afterwards personal proof of, so much so that I remained a week less in Angeln than I had intended, because I found I could not pursue my inquiries without fear of injuring others by making them suspected. The petty village officials I invariably discovered were chosen from among the few who are ready to serve as instruments of the Danish party, and the like persons almost exclusively held licences as carpenters, tailors, &c.; whereas, inns and public-houses were kept by opponents, as others did not apply for licences, knowing they would meet with no support from the public. I always sought these 'loyal' villagers, and found them, as a general rule, decorated with the Order of the Dannebrog; but, nevertheless, with few exceptions, they admitted, when alone with me, that forcing the Danish language on the people was unjust, and did not advance the Danish cause, but had rather a contrary effect. They said the clergymen were unpopular, not so much because they are Danes, as because they care less for the religious welfare of their congregations than for the progress of the Danish language and Danish institutions. These men invariably made me promise secresy, lest they should lose their licence or their appointment." 1305 "Although the question may be settled at present, by the superior force of the great Powers, and Schleswig and Holstein be made to continue under the rule of Denmark, no satisfactory solution of the question will ever be obtained by this means, and the people of Schleswig, as well as those of Holstein, will never cease to endeavour to bring matters to a crisis, until they are freed entirely from the yoke of Denmark." The Times 1306 1307 "There can be no more ungrateful task than the labour of reading long and obscure despatches in which the meaning is concealed under a multitude of words." 1308 "Her Majesty has been unremitting in her endeavours to bring about a peaceful settlement of the differences which have arisen between Germany and Denmark, and to ward off the dangers which might follow from a beginning of warfare in the North of Europe." d 1309 "We are convinced—I am convinced at least that if any violent attempt were made to overthrow or interfere with the independence of Denmark, those who made the attempt would find in the result that it would not be Denmark alone with which they would have to contend."— [3  Hansard "… I do not myself anticipate any immediate danger, or, indeed, any of that remote danger which the hon. Gentleman seems to think imperils the peace of Europe, arising out of the Danish and Holstein question." "M. Hall, while admitting the gravity of existing circumstances, spoke nevertheless with considerable confidence as to the future. He said that Denmark had gone to the utmost lengths to meet the requirements of the Confederation; that a free and independent position had been given to Holstein by the Patent of the 30th of March, and that the Danish Government had moreover declared that they were ready to negotiate with the Diet if there was anything in that Patent which withheld from the Holstein States aught that they had a right to claim. It was evident, therefore, that what the German Confederation was aiming at was not simply the position of Holstein
 1310 "But the Danish Government need not look so far back in the past to gain the assurance that the active assistance of England will not fail them under the present circumstances. The Treaty of London, in contempt of which the German Powers are at the present moment invading a Danish country, is especially due to the invariable interest which England takes in the maintenance of the Danish Monarchy. And of all the great Powers, England has always been that which has endeavoured with most perseverance to remove the prospects of a collision. Recently, too, the Cabinet of London gave it to be understood at Frankfort that, in the case of an attack of Schleswig, Denmark would not be left alone in the contest. Germany has thought she could continue
 1311 1312 "It will not be thought surprising in England that Her Majesty's Government exercise scarcely any influence in Germany as regards the dispute with Denmark. All publicists of Universities are engaged in demolishing the validity of the London Treaty." "Baron Hugel said he might as well order an apartment in a lunatic asylum as counsel an adherence to the Treaty of 1852." "I regret to say that I have reason to apprehend that Count Platen is preparing to beat a retreat from the Treaty of London, 1852." 1313 1314 1315
 MR. MALINS  said, he thought that the Government ought not to persevere in introducing the measure without a statement when there was such a strong party in the House against their adopting such a course.
 MR. O'HAGAN  was ready to make the statement at once if it was wished. The object of the Bill was to assimilate the Chancery practice according to the recommendations of the Royal Commission, whose Report was laid on the table of the House last Session. He thought the more convenient course would be to print the Bill, and make the statement at the second reading.
 MR. O'HAGAN (THE ATTOENEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND)  said, he rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to alter the constitution and amend the practice and course of proceeding in the High Court of Chancery in Ireland. Owing, however, to the lateness of the hour, he would reserve any remarks he might have to make until the second reading of the Bill.
 MR. O'HAGAN  said, he must protest against the assumption that he had acted disrespectfully towards the House, whose convenience he endeavoured to consult. After what had occurred, and the feeling which had been shown, he should certainly not press the measure that evening.
 MR. SCULLY  said, he was of opinion that the second reading would be the fit-
 1377
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was a very common practice on both sides of the House, and served the purposes of general convenience, to allow the introduction of a Bill, and to explain its details at a subsequent stage.
 MR. F. S. POWELL  said, he would beg to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether he is prepared to lay upon the table of the House the Instructions according to which certain Architects have drawn Plans for Buildings at South Kensington, the use of which is stated by the First Commissioner to be matter for further consideration?
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he was sure that the hon. Member for Liskeard was only anxious that the people of Schleswig and Holstein should have an opportunity of expressing their own free and unbiassed opinion as to the arrangements which were to be made, and he would desire that their feelings should be ascertained in the best way that could be devised. Probably, the best way would be by the convocation of an assembly  ad hoc 1345 The Times 1346 casus belli 1347
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  thought they had a right to insist upon explanations being given before the Bill was proceeded with.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he thought that it would be more convenient to allow the Bill to be introduced and printed before a statement was made.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, his right hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General for Ireland was quite prepared to make his statement; and, as it would only occupy about an hour, he hoped his hon. Friends on the other side would not prevent him from making it at that early hour (ten minutes past twelve o'clock), seeing that a Session or two ago Irish Bills were frequently introduced at one or two in the morning.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, that the uniform practice was that Bills were not brought in without explanation, when hon. Members declared that the public interests required such explanation.
 VISCOUST PALMERSTON  said, that no Irish Member could be ignorant of the objects and arrangement proposed by the Bill. He therefore trusted that the discussion of the details would be postponed until the second reading.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I should have hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would have been sufficiently aware that we never could have fallen into the delusion that he would propose a vote of confidence in the Government. We do not expect that, for it is not in the nature of things, and the disclaimer on his part was by no means necessary to enlighten our minds. But if there had been any doubt on the subject, that which has just fallen from the right hon. Gentleman is calculated to dispel it. I did not, however, expect that, in a debate on Danish affairs, we should have been led back to discuss the question of Poland or that of the Congress. The right hon. Gentleman, greatly blaming our conduct throughout the whole of the transactions to which he referred, has omitted to explain what it is that we ought to have done. He blamed us for what we did, but omitted to state what he would have altered for the better. He has blamed the conduct we pursued in regard to Poland, but he has said that it would have been insanity for the English Government to go to war with Russia in respect to the affairs of Poland. Then, what other course would he have had us take? Are we to infer that, while on the one hand he thought war insanity, on the other he thought silence
 1369 1370 1371 1372
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I have heard within a very short period the report which has suggested the Question of the hon. Member for Devizes. I have been told that it has been reported in different quarters in this town, that the termination earlier than was expected of the visit of General Garibaldi to this country is the result of some suggestion coming from Her Majesty's Government, and that that suggestion has been dictated by a communication received—there is no need for mincing the matter—from the Emperor of the French. All I can say is, that those who have spread or believed that report have done great injustice both to the Emperor of the French and to Her Majesty's Government. The Emperor of the French is, I am quite sure, too high-minded and of too generous a character to have made any such application to Her Majesty's Government, and I need not, I trust, say that any Government of this country receiving such a communication from any foreign Sovereign, tending to bear on purely do-
 1291 1292
 MR. DAWSON  said, he did not think the Bill afforded any prospect of whole some legislation, and would therefore move that it be read a second time that day six
 1387
 LORD NAAS  said, he was pleased to find that the Bill had been discussed in so calm and moderate a tone; but he could not but think that the case against the present law had utterly broken down. The supporters of the Bill had failed to show that there had been any want of economy or any jobbing or neglect of duty. If there was any dissatisfaction in Ireland with respect to the working of the grand jury law, all he could say was that it had been kept a profound secret until now. If, then, no case had been made out against the administration of the present law, and no dissatisfaction existed with regard to its working, he thought the House should be very careful before it sanctioned so radical and complete a change as that proposed by the hon. Member for Waterford (Mr. Blake). It had been stated that great dissatisfaction existed amongst the ratepayers and occupiers as to the working of the grand jury system; but if such dissatisfaction existed it was kept a profound secret. No case having been made out for the proposed change, the House ought to be very careful before it rejected a sys tem which had worked well for the purpose of introducing another, the working of which was very problematical. There was one point which had not been prominently put forward, but which was at the root of the whole affair—and that was a certain amount of dissatisfaction as to the incidence of the taxation prevailing in counties, and it was clear from the speeches of the hon. Members for Waterford (Mr. Blake) and Dungarvan (Mr. Maguire) that their object was to get rid of the present mode of levying county cess, and assimilating it to the mode of levying the poor rate. Now a change of that kind would amount to nothing less than confiscation, as far as it went. The enormous amount of property which had of late years changed hands had been purchased under the existing law by which one half the county cess was paid by the occupier, and he could not believe that the House would consent to inflict on the owners such an injustice as to remove the charge from the occupier and place the whole payment on the landowner. So far from any charge of want of economy having been brought against the grand jury system, he believed
 1392
 MR. POLLAED-URQUHAET  said, that whatever the faults of omission or commission the Bill possessed, it should be allowed to go into Committee where they could be remedied. He believed that the magistrates and landlords in Ireland discharged their duties on the grand juries with integrity; but, he asked, whether the time had not arrived when something should be done to associate the cesspayers, farmers, and others in the administration of the cess. The experiment of elective guardians had been tried for the last seventeen years in the administration of the Poor Law; and it was stated before the Poor Law Committee of 1861, that the effect had been to remove many prejudices. He hoped the Government would allow the Bill to be read a second time.
 MR. M'EVOY  said, he had no objection to grand juries, but he thought that when men paid taxes they ought to have some control over their expenditure. It was on that ground he supported the second reading of the Bill.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, this was a Bill requiring much consideration in order to see whether amendments in the law could be introduced with advantage. The measure was one which, in its present form, could not be accepted with out further inquiry, and he therefore asked the hon. Member who had charge of it to postpone the second reading.
 COLONEL DUNNE  seconded the Motion. If the Bill was read a second time he should move in Committee that its pro visions be extended to England; by that means they would obtain a sure test of the value of the Bill, and if approved for England he thought Irish Members might assent to it.
 MR. HAS SARD  said, there was a very analogous measure for England—the Enfranchisement of Land Act. He did not think the Bill was perfect in its details, or that its scope was hardly large enough. It should be extended to corporate bodies. There were plenty of materials in it to be moulded into a good and useful measure, and he hoped, therefore, it would not be thrown out on the second reading.
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  said, he would assent to the second reading, though he could not support the Bill as it stood. He believed the existing grand jury system to be a very bad one, and that it would have been long ago abolished but for the circum stance that it had been well administered. The grand jury was arbitrarily chosen by the sheriff, who was himself arbitrarily chosen by the Judge of assize. They were supposed to be representatives of the largest properties in Ireland, but this was by no means always the case. They were called together twice a year, and in a couple of days were required to go through a quantity of business, requiring twice as large a portion of time. One most important clause in the existing law was so absurdly worded that it bore a different interpretation in different counties. Again, at present there was a risk of loss from defalcations of the High Constables who received the county cess, and if those losses had not been frequent it was attributable to the care taken by the grand juries in the selection of persons to fill the office of High Constable. He would desire to see Baronial Boards appointed, but he should object to the formation of County Boards as proposed by this Bill. Sir William Somerville introduced a Bill in 1849 which he much preferred to this. It was, however, impossible to expect that the Bill could pass this Session, and he trusted that the
 1391
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, that the pre sent grand jury system was on the whole economical and most efficiently conducted, and he could not support the changes pro posed by this Bill.
 MR. HERBERT  said, he had been so pointedly referred to by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Waterford, in introducing the second reading of the Bill, that he felt called upon to say a few words. The hon. Gentleman had appealed to him for his support, on the ground that he had brought in a Bill the object of which was similar to that of the Bill now before the House, and that in so doing he had admitted the existence of many anomalies
 1393 1394
 MR. BUTT  said, he approved of the principle of the Bill, though no doubt it was open to some objections in detail, which might easily be remedied in Committee.
 MR. BUTT  said, the question at issue was whether the members of the grand jury were to be nominees of the high sheriff, or to be elected by the people. He would support the Motion for the second reading.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he should be sorry to oppose any measure introduced by his hon. and learned Friend; but it appeared to him that the provisions of the present Bill were not reasonable, and if adopted without considerable alteration might result in grave consequences. According to this Bill the limited owner of an estate—that was, a tenant for life—would be at liberty to effect an arrangement with the owner of the rent by which the rights of the incumbrancer might be ousted for ever. Now he (Mr. Whiteside) could well conceive the existence of a collusive under standing between those two parties to effect an arrangement of that kind, with the object of destroying the rights of all other parties interested in the property. His hon. and learned Friend, in asking the as sent of that House to this measure, thought it was a strong argument in its favour that it had been approved of by the House of Lords; no doubt a decision of the House of Lords was entitled to great respect, but he (Mr. Whiteside) submitted that the Members of the House of Commons were as capable of looking after the rights of property as their Lordships' House. The only safeguard in the Bill against fraud was that the assent of a Judge of the Landed Estates Court was required before the purchase was completed. But the learned Judge would not be compelled to look into the title in case the two contracting parties declared themselves perfectly satisfied with the arrangement. That, in effect, was no protection against a collusive sale and purchase to defraud
 1399
 MR. WHITESIDE  suggested, that the Amendment should be withdrawn, on the understanding that the Law Officers would consider the machinery proposed and the propriety of extending the Bill to England.
 MR. BAGWELL  said, he had never joined in any cry that the gentlemen of Ireland had not with the utmost ability and integrity of purpose fulfilled their duties as grand jurors. But there were two main points in the proposition before the House, the one social and the other fiscal. Socially nothing could be more beneficial to Ireland than bringing to gether the magistrates and the occupiers of land. That had been found to be of the greatest use in the administration of the Poor Law. When gentlemen of high position and the ratepayers came together for public purposes, it was found on the one hand that the latter were not quite so ignorant as was supposed, and that the former were neither so selfish nor so inconsiderate as had been alleged against them. But he had always objected to
 1388
 MR. BLAKE  said, he begged to move the second reading of the Bill, the main principles of which consisted in the separation of the criminal from the fiscal business of counties, leaving the first to be discharged, as hitherto, by the grand jury summoned by the sheriff, and transferring the latter to county and baronial Boards of an elective and representative character, consisting of an equal number of members severally appointed by the magistracy and ratepayers. Although the Bill had not the merit of originality, still for that very reason it recommended itself for their adoption—as measures of nearly a similar character had been introduced, not only by distinguished private Members, but by Ministers of the Crown, one of whom, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, he was glad to see in his place, as he and Sir William Somerville, when Chief Secretary for Ireland, had introduced so good a Bill that he (Mr. Blake) had adopted several of the best clauses. Numerous petitions from
 1380 1381 1382 "The intent of the Legislature in establishing presentment sessions seems to have been to give to the ratepayers such a representation thereat as would enable them to prevent improper or improvident presentments; but the law is not effectual for its purpose. Magistrates may, and when a particular object is to he carried, not unfrequently do, attend the presentment sessions of baronies where they have no property, and outvote those who have. Then, as to the associated ratepayers, they are not chosen by the ratepayers at large, but are taken by lot from the reduced lists made by the grand jury in the way already described. They are, therefore, nominees, not of the class they are to represent, but of the class they are to control. The lot, too, may fall upon the most unfit, which is of itself a serious fault in the system, and the uncertainty in which the ratepayers named by the grand jury are left until; the day of the presentment sessions, as to the particular individuals who may be drawn to serve, is obviously calculated to prevent a regular attendance. "(Signed) J. BLAKE, Chief Remembrancer, JOHN YOUNG, Bart, BARON GREENE, WM. SOMEEVILLE, Bart., JOHN L. O'FERRALL." 1383 "Your favour of the 15th has found me here. I cannot go into the defence of the drainage so fully as if I were at home, but I think it will be evident that in all countries there are systems of arterial drainage that in some cases will require to traverse large sections of the county, and that, like roads, will require to come before dis-
 1384 1385 1386
 MR. BLAKE , in reply, stated that he had no alternative but to proceed with the Bill, as it appeared to him that the mea sure foreshadowed by the Secretary for Ireland would not go far enough.
 MR. GEORGE  said, he observed that the Bill was confined altogether to Ireland. He thought that if it were good for one part of the United Kingdom it ought to be good for another, and should therefore be extended to England. He saw no pro vision in the Bill for giving notice to the incumbrancer, which was in his mind a great defect in the measure. He was unwilling to vote against the second reading, but it appeared to him to be open to many objections in its details, and he thought it should he referred to a Select Committee, to see if any further safeguard could be provided for the interests of third parties. He thought the Bill an extremely unsafe one, and he doubted if they read it a second time whether they would be able to effectually amend it in Committee.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, that considering the admissions he had made, he did not think that there was any extraordinary difference of opinion between the hon. Member for Londonderry (Mr. Dawson) and his hon. Friend who had brought in the Bill on the subject of it. It was a matter of little consequence whether the party with which he acted received support
 1389 1390
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL  said, if this Bill were what it professed to be—namely, one to amend the grand jury system in Ireland —he should vote for it; but it appeared to him that it was not such a Bill, and, there fore, he could not support it. He was glad to hear the Secretary for Ireland state that the Government had considered the subject, and if the right hon. Gentleman should not be in office next year, he hoped he would be in the House to support the measure to which he had shortly referred.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he trusted that the Secretary for Ireland would decline to take the advice of the two ex-Secretaries for Ireland who had addressed the House, but would give all his assistance in furtherance of the present measure. He had him self presented numerous petitions which showed how great was the dissatisfaction existing in Ireland with the operation of I the grand jury system; and how great the evil was might be gathered from the manner in which the grand jury cess had been continuously increasing from the commencement of the present century. In 1800 the county cess was £400,000; in 1815 it was £619,000; it 1835 it was £945,000; in 1840 it was £1,268,000; and in 1845 it was £1,159,000. In 1846 Sir Robert Peel, on the repeal of the Corn Laws, relieved Ireland of between £500,000 and £600,000 per annum for the expense of the police, and threw it on the Consolidated Fund; but the result was that in stead of the cess falling by that amount it was, in 1850, £1,037,000; in 1859 it was £1,059,000; and in 1862 it was £1,088,000, which was an enormous sum; and he defied any one to account for that increase except from the indifference of the grand juries to that economy which they would practise if they had to pay the whole of the rates themselves, or from the people having nothing to do with its ad ministration. He complained of the in difference of English Members to Irish affairs. They had a great many Motions proposed for assimilating the laws of the two countries, but the English Members did not give them their support. The expenditure by the grand juries of Ireland was so great that it exceeded those of the kingdom of Denmark, of Switzerland, of Norway, and of Greece. The Bill only asked that the Irish people might be placed on an equality with England in respect to the principles of self-government. He hoped the Bill would be read a second time.
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, he should be happy to accept any Amendment the Committee might think proper to adopt. His only object was to make the Bill useful and efficient.
 MR. LONGFIELD , in moving the second reading of the Bill, said, that it was purely permissive in its nature, and its object was to facilitate redemption of chief rents by enabling tenants to make arrangements for that purpose. There were several provisions in the Bill which would effectually secure the interests of the remainder-man, and guard him against fraud. The mea sure was passed last Session by the House of Lords, but it was found to be too late in the Session to proceed with it in that
 1398
 MR. O'HAGAN (THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND)  said, it appeared to him that the principle of the Bill was not open to objection. The details of the measure, however, he thought, required the most careful consideration. He was of opinion that much more protection against fraud than that contained in the Bill was necessary. It would be absolutely necessary to provide that if the title for rent should fail the land should cease to be burdened —that if there be a failure on the one side there should be also a failure on the other. He would not oppose the second reading; but he thought the provisions required a great deal of careful deliberation in Committee before the measure was made law.
 MR. COGAN  suggested that the Bill should not be pressed to a division, other wise the cause of grand jury reform would be retarded, as many who wished reforms in the grand jury system must oppose the Bill. He had not much faith in the promise made from the Treasury bench; and thought that a reform in the grand juries would be more likely to be effected if there was a change in the occupants of that bench.
 MR. MONSELL  recommended the hon. Member for Waterford not to go to a division, as it would be impossible to pass a Bill this Session. He was, however, of opinion, that in the case of the county cess, the same incidence of taxation as that which now prevailed in respect of pool-rate ought to be adopted. An arrangement to that effect might be made in all future contracts between landlord and tenant.
 CAPTAIN STACPOOLE  said, that the only alteration required in the grand jury law was that of a division in the payment of the county rates between the landlords and the tenants; and that no magistrate should be allowed to vote in any barony in which he did not possess properly; and that the ratepayers should be permitted to share in the suffrage with the magistrates.
 MR. CHARLES FORSTER  said, that having already once postponed this Bill to meet the convenience of the Government, he had not expected to be called upon to postpone it again. However, at that late period of the afternoon, he had no alternative but to accede to the suggestion which had been made.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  considered the Bill unnecessary, save in very exceptional cases. The present law provided
 1400
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, it was impossible that the Government could affirm the principle of the Bill, striking as it did
 1395
 MR. COWPER  said, in reply, that the proposal made in 1859 for erecting Vice Chancellors' Courts within the precincts of Lincoln's Inn was more for the benefit of the Inn than that of the public, as it would no doubt have enhanced the value of chambers there. It would not be so much for the advantage of suitors at large or the entire legal profession as the scheme proposed by the Commissioners for the concentration of all the Courts of Law and Equity and their offices in one building. It was, he believed, on this ground that the offer was refused by Lord Derby's Government at the time it was made, and it was on the same ground that the present Government could not avail themselves of the proposal of the Society of Lincoln's Inn. The scheme now in the contemplation of the Government had for its main feature, in
 1421
 MR. COWPER  said, he believed it would be brought forward soon.
 MR. PEEL , in reply, said, the Home Government two years ago had given notice to the Governments of the West India Colonies that from the present year, when the new contract would commence, they would apply to those Colonies that principle of half contribution for the cost of the Mail Service which was already in operation in respect to the Australian and other Colonies. The loss upon the West India Mail Service had been much reduced under the new contract, but it still amounted to a considerable sum — about £115,000. They had ascertained how much of that sum was due to the West India part of the service, and how much to the Mexico and Pacific part. This country would bear the whole loss on the Mexico and Pacific branch, but as regarded the West India branch, it was thought fair that the West India Colonies should bear a share of the loss upon it. Of course, it rested with those Colonies entirely whether they would give or withhold their consent to the arrangement, but that consent was necessary to their participating in the benefits of that service.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he agreed in much that had fallen from the hon. Gentleman opposite, and was glad to find that his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Youghal did not ask the House to assent to the terms of the Motion as it originally stood, but was prepared to submit it to the House in a modified form. It would be a dangerous precedent if the House were to take upon itself the introduction, by its own authority, of any Amendment in the course of procedure under the Election Petitions Act. The Cheltenham case, which occurred in 1848, appeared to tell against the Motion of his hon. and learned Friend. In that case an error was discovered in the preparation of the usual recognizances; but it turned out that there, were seven or eight other cases in which similar errors had been committed, and, on petitions being presented by the sitting Members, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge moved the appointment of a Select Committee much in the form of that now proposed. That certainly was a precedent so far; but what was the hearing of their Report, and what was the practical result? The Committee reported that it might be desirable to relieve the petitioners by legislation. The error in the Cheltenham case had occurred in seven or eight cases; and it was corrected, by legislation, before the inquiry, in any of these cases, had begun; but in the present case only one individual was concerned; the inquiry also was at an end; and if the Motion before the House were agreed to, it would be impossible to avoid the suspicion of being actu-
 1431
 MR. T. BARING  said, that he should vote against the Resolution, because he was against the sacrifice of revenue.
 COLONEL DICKSON , in rising to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the claims of Mr. John Clare, jun., on the Government for compensation for Inventions and Designs supplied to the Admiralty in
 1461 1462 Warrior Warrior 1463 Warrior Warrior Warrior? Warrior Warrior 1464
 COLONEL DICKSON  explained that nobody could speak in higher terms than he had done of the Chief Justice and the jury who tried the case.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that he was counsel for the Admiralty in Mr. Clare's case, and he would take upon himself the responsibility, which was shared by the Law Officers of the Crown, in advising the Admiralty to resist the petition, for a claim more unfounded and preposterous, he would venture to say, was never brought into a court of justice. Mr. Clare's, first demand was in respect of an alleged contract with the Admiralty, upon the terms of his having a percentage upon all the ships built, amounting to £200,000. Then he further claimed some £400,000 or £500,000 for a supposed infringement of his patent. The case came on to be tried, and the evidence in support of the claim consisted of about 100 letters written by him to the Admiralty, to which he believed only two replies were sent, the substance of them being this:—"Sir, we have
 1467 Warrior
 MR. CORRY  said, the noble Lord, in moving the Navy Estimates, had said that it was intended to pay off sixty-four ships in the course of the year, and therefore it would he necessary to have a large labour Vote to enable the Admiralty to replace thorn. That Vote, therefore, would not tend to increase the efficiency of the reserve. The Admiralty ought to place the ships paid off on the steam reserve, and have the ships forming the naval reserve ready for sea whenever their services might be required. One part of the service ought not to be neglected because attention was directed to another. The whole reserve ought to be kept in a state of efficiency. The comparison which the noble Lord had made between the reserve at the present time, and that which existed during the time when the right hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich was in office, was not exactly correct, as the Government of 1859 had not had the advantage of five years' tenure of office to re-organize the navy. The right hon. Baronet at that time asked for a Vote to increase the
 1473
 CAPTAIN TALBOT  reminded the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty of his promise not to proceed with the Malta Dock Vote after ten, it being now half-past that hour.
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, it was rather remarkable that a Bill of such importance should be sent to a Committee and at the same time that an objection should be made to taking any evidence. He always understood that when a measure was sent to a Committee it was for them to decide whether they would hear evidence. His right hon. Friend supposed that he wished that witnesses should be called for the express purpose of defeating the Bill. That was not his object. What he wanted was that the Bill should be thoroughly investigated, that the Committee should see how the machinery was to be worked, and above all should hear some persons connected with Friendly Societies, so as to ascertain why they objected to the Bill, where the shoe pinched them, and how they carried on the sort of business which would be transacted by the Government if the Bill passed. He had not the least intention of entering into the insolvency or solvency of these societies, because the inquiry then would be interminable, and the Bill would, as his right hon. Friend said, be "hung up." All he desired was, that the Committee should understand thoroughly the nature of the Bill, and in order that they might do this he now begged to move that they should have power to send for persons, papers, and records.
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  was willing to withdraw his Motion, but only on the
 1479
 MR. KINNA1RD : Sir, a rumour has been prevalent within the last few days, and it has also appeared in the public press, that a Member of Her Majesty's Government and a Cabinet Minister has been instrumental in inducing the departure of General Garibaldi in deference to the French Government. In order to avert any misunderstanding on the subject, I wish to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether there in any truth in that rumour?
 MR. DENMAN  said, he had been appealed to on that subject by Mr. Clare, one of whose counsel he had been at the trial which had been referred to: he had, however, declined to take any part in the present discussion, or to vote on the Question before the House, thinking that to abstain from doing so became a Member who had been professionally engaged in the case. If he were to declare his opinion in Mr. Clare's favour, it might be said that he was speaking as an advocate; and if he gave an opinion against the claim, it might be objected that he had made use of some confidence or trust reposed in him, to the prejudice of the interests of the person by whom he had been engaged as counsel.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  had only quoted the hon. and gallant Member's words, but was glad if they had not been intended to have the meaning he had supposed. He believed that Mr. Clare had had as fair a trial as ever took place in this country. The trial lasted five days, and it was conducted with the greatest patience by the Judge and jury, and the decision was that the Admiralty had not infringed any of Mr. Clare's patents. If the accusations made against the witnesses were founded on fact, the courts were open to Mr. Clare to prosecute them. Having some knowledge of matters connected with the construction of these ships, he (Lord Clarence Paget) had done his best to look into this subject, but he could not for the life of him see that any patent of Mr. Clare's had been infringed in the  Warrior
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  stated, in reply to the question of the hon. Member for Dungarvan (Mr. Maguire), that the case of Cork came within the order of reference to the Committee now sitting on the subject of dockyards, and would receive fair and full consideration. 1465 1466
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  agreed to postpone the Estimates till Monday.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he wished the right hon. Baronet had put his Question upon the paper in more specific terms, as he was not prepared to state offhand what quantity of coals or provisions would be required to be taken on board the ships forming the Channel squadron. All he could say was that the squadron was ordered to be ready for sea, fully provided with coals and stores, by the 15th of the present month. It was known that probably some of the ships might be sent north, and by the 15th of April it was expected the ice would be broken up in the Baltic. Those ships were all ready, but how long they had been engaged in
 1472
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, it would be a breach of faith to go on with the Vote now, as many Members had left the House under the impression that it would not come on.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  understood the declaration of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to mean this — that if the Committee thought they ought to call witnesses, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, with the force of the Government at his back, would oppose the Motion. He understood that the Chancellor of the Exchequer was not unwilling that they should have information, but that he himself was willing to give all the information that could be required. If he (Lord John Manners) were a Member of the Committee, he should say, "We have heard sufficient information from that quarter; we desire to hear other statements." If the House received no further explanations of a more satisfactory character, he saw no other course than to support the Motion of his hon. Friend.
 MR. AYRTON  observed, that as the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not given the pledge that he had been asked to give —namely, that the Committee should go upstairs unfettered, to decide for themselves whether they should have evidence or not, it was obvious that there must be some concealed meaning in his refusal to consent to that arrangement. It was inconsistent with usage, and with the respect due to the House, to say that a Committee on a Bill should not receive any information which they might think it necessary to ask for.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he wished to ask the noble Lord the Secretary of the Admiralty, On what footing it was intended to establish the School of Naval Architecture, for which the House had voted a small sum of money? He was anxious for this information, in order that the House might not be surprised into a large and costly scheme without knowing what it was about. When the subject was last under discussion, almost every one deprecated the establishment of the School at Kensington. There were already in our dockyards the  nuclei
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I will not speak for a quarter of an hour, but only for two minutes. I wish merely to explain the vote I shall give. I think that the principle laid down in the Amendment, as distinguished from the proposition of the Government, is the right principle. I have, first of all, to consider the Resolution which the House has arrived at, and then to consider the difficulties in the way of taxing stock in trade—a consideration which weighs much with me, though the Chancellor of the Exchequer holds it light. At the same time, I entirely agree with the right hon. Gentleman that, after the financial statement which he made to the House, no alteration ought to be made in that arrangement, and that we ought to confine ourselves to appropriating the sum understood to be at our disposal, in the manner best calculated to carry out the views adopted by the House. Therefore, though I shall vote for the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman, I shall, in case that is carried, move, when it becomes a substantive Motion, the omission of the words, "1 s 1450 "That in the opinion of this House the reduction of the Fire Duty in the manner proposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer is not the mode contemplated by the Resolution of the House passed last Session on this subject, and that the uniform reduction of duty on all descriptions of property liable to the said duty will be more acceptable."
 MR. SELWYN  said, he would beg to: ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether Her Majesty's Government intend to accept the offer made by the Society of Lincoln's Inn in 1859, and since repeated—namely, either to give the ground necessary for the erection of Courts for the Vice Chancellors, or to build such Courts at the expense of the Society upon receiving, for a term of years, £4 per cent per annum on the actual outlay on the buildings from the Suitors' Fund, but without any charge upon or guarantee from the National Exchequer?
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, in reply, that, as the Law now stood, if there was an Appeal against the valuation of a parish by the Assessment Committee, the Guardians could appear as respondents to that Appeal, and charge their costs, in case of failure, on the common fund; but it appeared that if the overseers made a rate upon the valuation so made by the Assessment Committee, and there was an Appeal against the rate, there was no provision for either the Committee or the Guardians to appear in defence of their valuation. This was considered a serious defect in the Act, and many representations of the injustice which this occasioned had reached the Poor Law Board. He had, therefore, determined to introduce a Bill to amend the Act in that respect, and he would do so in time for it to become law before the July Sessions.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, he had already stated that he would introduce an Amendment in the Union Assessment Act. He thought the provision which his hon. Friend suggested was very useful, and would take care that it was not overlooked in the Bill.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Poor Law Board if he intends to propose any Amendment of the Union Assessment Act during the present Session, and particularly if he intends so to alter that Act as to make it compulsory on parties to appeal to the Assessment Committee before appealing to the Justices in Quarter Sessions?
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he wished to ask whether, in case the Government contemplate any measure such as his lion, and learned Friend had alluded to, it was part of the scheme they had in view that one large building should comprise all the Law Courts?
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he wished to know when the scheme would be brought; forward?
 MR. HADFIELD , in seconding the Amendment, said, he was convinced that the revenue would suffer considerably if the present mode of taxation were adhered to. Ono of the railway companies, paying £1,000 a year for Fire Insurance, of which sum two-thirds was on account of the duty, had determined to insure themselves, and the consequence was that the revenue had suffered severely from the exorbitant amount of the rate. This example was also being followed by other railway companies.
 MR. HUNT  said, that the House had been more occupied that evening with the inhabitants of Caprera than with the events of the Lisburn Election Petition, and therefore it had been quite impossible for him. under the circumstances of the evening, (the hon. Member alluded to the presence of General Garibaldi in the seats under the gallery of the House,) to follow the whole of the arguments of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down; and, therefore, in the remarks which he was about to make, he had to beg the pardon of the House if he neglected to reply to all the learned Member's arguments. He wished to call the attention of the House to what occurred alter the recess. A
 1429 felo de se 1430
 MR. HODGKINSON  said, that as a director of this Society, he should offer no opposition to any inquiry into the management of its property in Ireland; but as the Society did not acquire the property in question till 1852, he suggested that that date should be substituted for 1850; and as their Civil Bill ejectments were almost without exception merely proceedings for the recovery of rent, and were not followed by evictions, he proposed that the Return should also show the number of evictions which had taken place upon these ejectments.
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, that that discussion only supplied another proof, if an additional proof were wanting, of the great necessity for a change in our patent law, for as matters now stood it seemed almost impossible for the Admiralty to adopt any improvement without some inventor stepping in and claiming a patent right in it. In that case a court of justice had decided in favour of the Admiralty and against Mr. Clare, and the Admiralty had now nothing to do with the question.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, he did not dispute the accuracy of many of the right hon. Gentleman's figures, but he differed considerably from his conclusions. He accepted the construction which the right hon. Gentleman had put upon his Resolution—namely, that, instead of a reduction of 1 s d s s s s d 1440 s s s 1441 1442 1443 s 1444 d 1445 1446 s s
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  did not think that the cause of the Fire Insurance duties would be helped on by a division being taken then. He thought it would be better for the hon. Baronet to leave the matter as it stood. The principle of reduction had been admitted, and next year with renewed agitation they might hope for a more substantial remission.
 MR. HUSSEY VIVIAN  was sure that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had no fear for the Bill on its merits. What he feared, and properly feared, was that a general inquiry into the principle and bearings of the Bill, and an examination of the officers of the various Friendly Societies, would consume so much time that the measure would be shelved.
 MR. BUTT  said, he would withdraw his Motion after the statement of the Attorney General.
 MR. BUTT  who had given notice, on consideration of the Petitions of R. Kennedy and B. Pelan, and J. J. Richardson, to move, That the Select Committee on the Lisburn Election Petitions do re-assemble and report upon the matter referred to them by the House, said, whatever opinion might be entertained with reference to the course the House ought to take in this matter, he thought everybody would admit that it was a question of great importance as affecting the privileges of that House and the practice of Election Committees. The Petitioner, Mr. Richardson, was formerly a Member of that House. He was a candidate at the last election for Lisburn, and had presented a petition against the return. He had attended the Committee at a very great expense; and he now complained that, after eleven days had been spent in the inquiry, he was in a worse position than when the inquiry commenced. He considered that having presented a Petition he had a right to have it heard and decided, and that he could not be deprived of that right except through some fault of his own, or some defect in the rules, regulations, and proceedings of that House. He had complied with every rule and regulation, and he asked the House to find some menus of remedying the injustice he had suffered. The hon. and learned Gentlemen then stated the facts connected with the lapse of the Committee by the illness and absence of Mr. Stirling, the Act of Parliament in relation to Election Committees not having provided for the case which actually occurred. The provisions were not, as had been asserted, new.
 1427 1428 de die in diem?
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, the Chancellor of the Exchequer seemed to say, "I will answer questions as I think fit, and if you are not satisfied you must be an incorrigible Committee; but if you ask for independent evidence, then your proposal is so unparliamentary that we cannot hold out any hope of its being adopted." Why should he not have said at once, "You shall only have such evidence as I like on the clauses of the Bill?"
 MR. SPEAKER : A Question having been addressed to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, there is nothing at all out of order in his replying to it.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that whereas the Solicitor General had stated that Mr. Clare received but two letters from the
 1468 "Mr. Clare was evidently a disappointed man. He was disappointed at not having his plans and specifications adopted by the Admiralty. He had impressed upon the Admiralty the great importance of the subject of Iron Shipbuilding, and it was not till some years afterwards that it was taken up."
 MR. HUBBARD  wished to renew his solemn protest against this measure, which he deemed to be of a most delusive character.
 MR. HUBBARD  rose amid loud cries of "divide." The hon. Member said that he would not detain the House more than a quarter of an hour—[ Great laughter whereon the hon. Gentleman sat down
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he could not but imagine that if his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had been as anxious to carry out the wishes of the House, pronounced on two occasions, as he had been to evade them, the first reduction he would have announced in his Budget would have been one of 1 s d 1457 s s s s d s 1458
 MR. MAGUIRE  wished to knew, Whether the Select Committee on Dockyards had consented to take evidence as to the capability of the harbour of Cork, and the expediency of establishing a naval dockyard in it?
 MR. ROEBUCK  thought, that as the Committee would have power to direct their Chairman to come down and ask for leave to take evidence, it was merely fighting with a shadow to contend for the permission of the Chancellor of the Exchequer for the examination of witnesses.
 MR. WYKEHAM MARTIN , who had a notice on the paper concerning the spinning machinery at Chatham, expressed a hope that the Government would fix another night for that Vote, when it could come on early. He had been about twelve hours in the House that day, and he would possibly be as long to morrow, so that if the question came on late at night he would be almost physically incapable of making his Motion.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he imagined that this Committee would not be bound by any other rules than those which regulated the proceedings of every other Committee. It would be better to
 1477 1478
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  would remind
 1480
 MR. SUTTON WESTERN  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Poor
 1422
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, he hoped the Motion would not be withdrawn except on the distinct understanding to the effect stated by the last speaker. The Chancellor of the Exchequer said he took upon himself the responsibility of the Bill, and suggested that he alone should be examined. This was not satisfactory. The Bill consisted of two clauses, one of which was accepted, the other objected to. An investigation of the subject was asked for; but were the Committee to investigate with their hands tied, and if we are told that they were not to examine into the only point which was important, he thought there ought not to have a been Select Committee at all. The only question was whether the business was to be undertaken by an already overworked Department of the Government — the Post Office. He did not object to giving the facilities for insurance to the poor people, but he doubted whether Life Assurance was what they wanted. What they wanted was security, not for a provision in case of death, but in case of sickness. A Select Committee had been appointed to examine into the question—let them examine whether the provisions of the Bill were expedient, but unless the Committee had full power to call witnesses they would never have the question satisfactorily answered.
 MR. SCULLY : Sir, I rise to order. I am kept very strictly to the Question in this House, and am not allowed to make the slightest statement of any sort that is the least irrelevant; and I say that in answering questions the right hon. Gentleman ought not to make use of irrelevant statements.
 MR. SCULLY  wished to put a question to the Chancellor of the Exchequer relative to the reply he had just given to the hon.
 1426
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : In the conversation referred to, I made no statement whatever with respect to the population of Ireland; and with respect to the population of England, I left it to General Garibaldi to judge of their feelings by what he saw.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The Duke stated to me that General Garibaldi's friends were beginning to entertain very serious apprehensions as to the effect of his protracted labours and his meditated excursion to the provinces on his health, and he requested me to come to Stafford House about nine o'clock in the evening for the purpose of considering whether any advice should be tendered to the General on the subject. I considered, certainly, that the Duke of Sutherland, by the course which he had pursued in regard to General Garibaldi, had not only been exercising a princely hospitality, but really had been rendering a great public service; and I felt it to be my duty—I felt that it became me—if he thought it advisable to consult me in that matter, to comply with his wish. I went to Stafford House accordingly, and I found there that considerable apprehension prevailed on the subject; that General Garibaldi had already accepted, conditionally,
 1424 1425
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, as far as I am concerned, I am obliged to my hon. Friend for putting this Question to me, because, undoubtedly, mysterious statements have appeared in the public journals. The subject is one in which the people of England take a very lively interest, and I do not think there is anything which they so much dislike as the appearance of mystery in anything when public matters and public men are concerned. With the permission of the House, therefore, I will shortly state my share in the proceeding which has given rise to these incorrect and even absurd rumours. Sir, on Sunday last, the Duke of Sutherland communicated to me that he and other friends of General Garibaldi were beginning to entertain considerable apprehensions in regard to the state of his health, and that a very eminent medical man, indeed one of the first names in the profession, who had visited him, Mr. Ferguson—
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that as he had dealt with the very points which had been raised by the hon. Baronet in his reply to the hon. Member for Dudley, it would not be necessary for him to go into the subject again at any length. He must divide what he had to say into two parts—one, the financial, the other the general merits of the question. With regard to the financial part of the question he quite understood the fundamental principle of the hon. Gentleman's Amendment—namely, that he was not disposed to wrench anything from the Government, but that what he wanted was what he considered a better division of the surplus. Now, his (the Chancellor of the Exchequer's) proposition was that a sum of between £190,000 and £200,000 should be given by way of relief with respect to Fire Insurance in the present year. The hon. Baronet, however, proposed to insert certain words in a Resolution which spoke of a reduction of duty by one-half. If, therefore, the proposal of the hon. Baronet was carried, it would have to be adjusted to the state of the finances. There were two ways by which that adjustment might be effected— the one by a postponement of the remission, the other by a reduction in its amount. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) proposed to take only three-fourths of the remission off the shoulders of the present year, so that the full force of it would not be felt until next year. But if he was to retain the 1 s d 1453 s d d s d 1454 s d d 1455 s d s d d 1456
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, notices having been given of Motions on the subject of Fire Insurance duty, I wish to make a short statement before you leave the chair; because, in point of fact, one of these Notices relates not so much to Fire Insurance as to the general principles on which the financial statement should be submitted and disposed of by the House. There are two Motions which are to be submitted to the House—one by the hon. Baronet the Member for Evesham (Sir Henry Willoughby), which, as it stands on the paper, does not, I believe, disclose the nature of his object; but he has teen good enough to explain his object to me, and I will explain it to the House, in order to draw the distinction between the Motion of the hon. Baronet and that of which notice has been given by the hon. Member for Dudley (Mr. H. B. Sheridan). As I understand, the hon. Member for Evesham does not propose to interfere with the financial arrangements of the Government; but he questions the judgment and discretion of the manner in which the Government, being
 1432 s s 1433 1434 s d s s s d d s s s 1435 s s s s d s s 1436 1437 1438 1439
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would endeavour to curtail his remarks as far as possible, and he should therefore begin by throwing aside all the arguments connected with the hon. Gentleman's interpretation of his motives, which really had nothing whatever to do with the subject under the consideration of the House. He would also draw a distinction between those of his arguments which were relevant and those which were not. The argument employed by the seconder of the Amendment (Mr. Hadfield) though they might apply to the Resolution of the hon. Member for Evesham, were not relevant to the question, which was purely a financial one. He need not dwell upon what the hon. Gentleman had said about the absence of any authorities on his part. The hon. Gentleman had, however, in his arguments put entirely aside the testimony of all those who had been responsible during a long series of years for the proper conduct and management of the revenue of the country, and of all those whose duty it was to have formed a responsible opinion upon the subject. It was not, however, necessary to dwell further upon that portion of the question. The hon. Gentleman had asked him where he had obtained his estimate. He did not think that it was at all necessary to give an answer to that question; but he would state that he had obtained it by requesting the persons connected with the Board of Inland Revenue to wait on the largest and best of the Insurance Companies, and he believed that that estimate was the best that could be arrived at. The hon. Gentleman was wrong in supposing that there was any greater difficulty in determining stock in trade than there was in defining farm stock. The hon. Gentleman had made two statements. One was, that he did not wish to take away the means he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had, and that his Amendment would leave him sufficient means for the public service; and
 1448 d d s 1449
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was willing to afford every information that should be given with respect to the clauses, and he thought that information might be afforded by those who assisted the responsible Ministers; but that was altogether different from taking general evidence on the principle and bearing of the Bill. He entirely must decline to hold out any expectations that the Government would be parties to examining into the effect of this Bill on Friendly Societies.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not desire to impute anything to the hon. Baronet that he had disclaimed, but the intention and the effect of his Motion were two different things; she effect—though he was sure he did not intend it—would be to put off the passing of the Bill for the present Session. His hon. Friend wanted the House to understand the machinery of the Bill and the bearing of its clauses, and to examine the promoters of the Bill as to its probable effect upon Friendly Societies. But his hon. Friend was mistaken in supposing that they could examine the bearing of the Bill and its effect upon Friendly Societies without involving these consequences. The societies would be entitled to show whatever injury might result to them from the measure, and in that way it would be impossible to escape examining how far their own rules and constitution were sound. But there was another broad distinction
 1475 1476
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  moved that the following Members be Members of the Select Committee on the Government Annuities Bill:—
 "The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER, Mr. SOTHERON ESTCOURT, Mr. MILNER GIBSON, Mr. HENLEY, Sir MINTO FARQUHAR, Sir STAFFORD NORTHCOTE, Mr. HORSFALL, Mr. GOSCHEN, Mr. CHARLES TURNER, Mr. HERBERT, Mr. HUBBARD, Mr. HENRY B. SHERIDAN, Mr. AYRTON, Mr. HODGKINSON, and Mr. PAGET.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  explained that so far from desiring that his voice should be the only voice to be heard before the Committee, he had expressly intimated that they might ask for further information; but he said that the responsibility for the measure must rest with the Government and the Government only. He desired to give the Committee every information, and for that purpose would lay before them explanations and conversations of the official advisers of the Government.
 MR. BUCHANAN  thought the Committee ought to be placed in a position to express some opinion, and not merely to return the Bill as sent to them.
 MR. GREGORY  moved for a Return of all Civil Bill Ejectments entered at the suit of the Law Life Society before the Chairman of Quarter Sessions of the County of Mayo and the county of Galway, from Hilary Quarter Sessions, 1850, up to the present time, distinguishing the ejectments of each year.
 MR. GREGORY  disclaimed any intention to take an unfair advantage of this Society, and would accept the hon. Member's first Amendment; but he could not assent to the second, because there were no means of ascertaining how many evictions had taken place.
 SIR FRANCIS CROSSLEY  said, he approved of the Budget as a whole, and, on that principle, he had voted that evening with the majority, though, if he had looked to the question of Fire Insurance alone, he should have taken a different course. He regarded the question of Fire Insurance as the weak part of the Budget, otherwise a very good one; and regretted that, having dealt satisfactorily with the two great questions of the Sugar Duties and the Income Tax, the right hon. Gentleman should have touched the subject of insurance, not having a sufficiently large balance to do so with good effect. To reduce the tax generally from 3 s s s s d 1459 s s d
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, he could not concur with the Chancellor of the Exchequer that the reduction which the right hon. Gentleman proposed was the one most likely to be reproductive. He supported the proposition of the hon. Baronet the Member for Evesham, not because he wished to favour the owners of houses and buildings, but for this reason— that, as far as one could learn, the rate of insurance on stock in trade was considerably higher than that on other matters. What was the conclusion from that? Not the one which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had attempted to draw from it— namely, that because persons could hardly afford to pay 6 s s d s d s d s s s s d
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the Navy Estimates would be placed first on the paper for Monday, and he hoped no Motions would be interposed to prevent them from going into Committee at once.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY : May I be allowed to say one word? ["Order!"]
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  moved an Amendment, in the fourth line, after the word "any," to leave out the words "goods, wares, or merchandise, being stock in trade, or of or upon any machinery, implements, fixtures, or utensils used for the purpose of any manufacture or trade," and to insert "houses and buildings." Her Majesty's Government had determined to touch the Fire Insurance duties, whether wisely or not he could not say; but that being so, it appeared to him to be of great importance that they should correctly understand what class of property it was the partial remission of the duty was intended to benefit. The right hon. Gentleman had selected "stock in trade," and since the announcement was made, he (Sir Henry Willoughby) with others, had received communications from various Insurance Offices which went to show that the difficulties attending the proposed alteration would be very great. Setting aside the difficulty that would arise in defining what "stock in trade" was, he thought that that was the last class of property on which a remission ought to be made, seeing that an insurance for £1,000 would, in the course of a year, cover many thousand pounds worth of property. But the main argument upon which he asked for the support of the Committee to his Amendment was that stock in trade ought not to be benefited at the expense of houses and buildings. No species of taxation was so much harassed by taxation as houses and buildings; for besides what it had to bear towards the general taxation of the country, it bore in an especial manner the burden of local taxation, amounting to no less than from £19,000,000 to £20,000,000 annually. It was a perfect truth that real property paid one-half, and houses and buildings nearly four-tenths of the taxation of the country, and it was also as true that stock in trade did not pay a shilling. Then, again, in considering how the revenue might best recover from any reduction, the largest margin of uninsured property consisted of houses and buildings. How, therefore, stock in trade could be selected in preference to houses and buildings, he was at a loss to conceive. For the sake
 1452
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he would not press his Motion to a division.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  also felt bound to vote against the Amendment, as he did not think it proper, after the House had accepted the main principles of the Budget—the reduction of the sugar duties and the reduction of the Income Tax—now to introduce any Motion destroying the surplus altogether.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  hoped the Malta Dock Vote would be fixed for a night when Members could know with some certainty that it would come on.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he felt bound to state, though with every wish to do justice to this unfortunate man—for he believed that he might speak of him in those terms—that the House would make a great mistake if, after the decision of a court of justice, they would pass this Vote. His hon. and gallant Friend had repeated the allegation that Mr. Clare was the first inventor of armour-plated ships, and that the  Warrior 1469 Warrior
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he wished to put the Questions to the noble
 1470 1471
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  explained that his right hon. Friend the Member for Buckinghamshire did not propose to interfere with the surplus; but, thinking the proposal of the Chancellor of the Exchequer with respect to the Fire Insurance duty not satisfactory to the country, intended, in case the Amendment became a substantive Motion, to move the omission from it of those words which, according to the Chancellor of the Exchequer's calculations, involved a sacrifice of revenue.
 MR. CAVE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether the West India Colonies have been called upon by the Treasury to contribute the sum of £37,554 for the present year towards the subsidy to the Royal Mail Steam Packet Company; and, if so, whether the consent of those Colonies had been previously obtained; and, whether he will lay upon the table of the House the copy of a letter from himself to Sir Frederick Rogers, together with the copy of a letter from the Postmaster General enclosed therein, on the subject?
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, the House had before it two conflicting statements. At one side it was urged that the Motion, if carried, would defeat the mea-
 1481
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, his noble Friend was quite ready to proceed with it at once. It was the preliminary discussions which took up so much time.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The question has really been put upon its true footing, and I wish the House to understand what it is we are going to vote on. It is whether this Bill shall be thrown over entirely. ["No!" "Cheers!"] That this was the real effect of the Motion must be evident to any one who reflects for an instant—because what is the object of the proposed inquiry? The Chancellor of the Exchequer has explained that it necessarily involves our going into the affairs of all those who wish to prevent the Bill passing into law. ["No!" "Hear, hear!"] It would be much more fair to vote that the Bill should be read this day six months, and the effect would be the same. ["No!" "Hear, hear!"] Let the House understand that what is now proposed is not to obtain information. It is not Parliamentary to impute motives, but let me say that the Motion, if carried, would render it perfectly impossible for the Bill to pass this Session.
 LORD STANLEY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whe-
 1500
 LORD STANLEY  said, he had seen it stated in the Indian newspapers that an order had been issued by the Lieutenant Governor of Bengal prohibiting the immemorial native custom connected with the native religion of burning the dead on the banks of the Hooghly. He wished, therefore, to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether it is true that the Government of Bengal has issued an order prohibiting the burning of dead bodies on the banks of the Hooghly river; whether the terms of that order, and the reasons on which it is based, have been made known, to him; and, if so, whether there is any objection to make them public?
 MR. STANLEY  said, he wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade, If instructions have been given to remove the Light Ship at Holyhead, and erect a Lighthouse on the structure of the Northern Breakwater?
 MR. LIDDELL : Sir, it is necessary, before I proceed to make the Motion which stands in my name, to explain to the House that, in consequence of some mistake, the Notice which I originally gave upon the subject does not appear in the form in which I first gave it. My Notice was to the effect, that I would call the attention of the House to the disbandment of the Anglo-Chinese force under the command of Captain Sherard Osborn, and I coupled with it the Motion which is on the paper, and which I shall end by moving—
 "That in the opinion of this House further interference on the part of this country in the civil war in China is impolitic and unnecessary." 1506 1507 "1. Osborn agrees to take the command of the European Chinese navy for a period of four years, and stipulates that there shall be no other European naval Commander-in-Chief. 2. Osborn, as Commander-in-Chief, is to have entire control over all vessels of European construction, as well as native vessels manned with Europeans, that may be in the employ of the Emperor of China, or, under his authority, of the native guilds. 3. Lay will procure from the Emperor such an authority as may be necessary to cover Osborn's acts as the Commander-in-Chief of the European Chinese navy. 4. Osborn undertakes to act upon all orders of the Emperor which may be conveyed direct to Lay; and Osborn engages not to attend to any orders conveyed through any other channel. 5. Lay, upon his part, engages to refuse to be the medium of any orders of the reasonableness of which he is not satisfied. 6. Osborn will appoint all officers and men on board the vessels of the force, subject, however, to the approval of Lay, as the representative of the Emperor."— Correspondence "The conditions of this understanding, the terms of the formal agreement, and the printed instructions, shall be formally ratified by the Emperor at Pekin before Osborn shall be called upon to act with the force under his command." 1508 élite argumentum ad hominem 1509 " It has been settled that the post of Chinese Commander-in-chief of the steam fleet now purchased, shall be filled by the high officer selected by the Chinese Government, and that Captain Osborn, C.B., a British subject, shall be assistant commander-in-chief for a period of four years. The affairs of the fleet are to be managed by the said commanders-in-chief in a friendly spirit of co-operation. While Captain Osborn assists the Chinese Government in command of the fleet, he will take the instructions of the governors-general and governors as to the employment or distribution of the force. In all operations he is always to confer personally with those officers before either undertaking or staying these, and is to accept the Chinese decision as final." 1510 "3. Captain Osborn will receive his commission from the Foreign Board defining his powers."—  Correspondence "Mr. Lay mistook his position, and overrated his influence when he resolved on starting his flotilla, without having previously ascertained that the terms agreed upon by Captain Osborn would be accepted. It was not till Mr. Lay arrived in China in the spring, that the Chinese Government had any information as to the com-
 1511 1512 1513 "Had the Chinese voluntarily accepted the squadron, the onus of the difficulties it would have encountered would have rested on the Chinese Government; but the burden would have been thrown on Her Majesty's Government by the Chinese, and with justice, had it appeared that this flotilla, exclusively British in its character, directed by British officers and agents, and imposed by British pressure, was acting under a Chinese flag, which the Chinese Government, contrary to its wishes, had been compelled to hoist on board the ships."— Page "If it was considered necessary that the flotilla should be taken out of the hands of the Government who paid for it, and the exclusive control over its operations vested in its foreign commander and the foreign agent employed in procuring it, these conditions, of so singular a nature, ought to have been submitted and agreed to before the vessels were allowed to sail for China."  Page ipse dixit 1514 imperium in imperio 1515 1516 Harrer "Great efforts have been made and assistance afforded by Her Majesty's Government in this neighbourhood, both as to supplies of munitions of war, drilling troops, and otherwise, but I am afraid without effect. The last supply of munitions brought by me from Shanghai and handed over to the Taoutae, by Captain Dew—namely, 1,000 Tower muskets, 100,000 rounds of ball cartridge, besides guns and other stores—I ascertained, too late to remonstrate, have been handed over to the Taoutae and his undisciplined troops, which is almost throwing them away." 1517 "The great majority of the respectable commercial classes (foreign) in this country strongly disapprove of the present action of our authorities; and many persons, even who at an earlier period gave all their influence in oposition to the maintenance of neutrality, have seen reason materially to modify their opinion. The commercial body, for the most part, have no faith whatever in the regeneration of China by such foreign aid as is now afforded; nor do they believe that hearty cooperation in introducing the foreign element into the various branches of the Chinese public service Can be expected from any native officials, beyond, perhaps, the few men at Pekin within the personal influence of the foreign ministers…. It may not be too late to withdraw from Shanghai with either safety or honour, but there can be no difficulty in restraining the energy of our military chiefs within the defined thirty mile radius round that city and settlement; and the extension of the system of protected areas round the other treaty ports would, in the general opinion of foreign residents in China, be a most serious mistake, and one much to be deprecated." "It was reluctantly, and in deference to the naval and military authorities, that he assumed the responsibility of defending the thirty mile radius." 1518 1519 "Futai Le is as unprincipled as all Chinese officials; he is squandering the revenue of the province, and is in league with unprincipled traders at Shanghai." 1520 "I am inclined to believe that the punishment of death of a slow description has been exceptionally awarded in this instance; and I shall do my best to put a stop to the infliction of this barbarous punishment—though we have to contend with this difficulty, that it has the sanction of the law." 1521 1522 "There is a tide in the affairs of men Which, taken at the flood, leads on to fortune." 1523
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Board of Trade, What alterations, if any, are intended to be made under the provisions of the Thames Conservancy Bill in the regulations now in force respecting the Ballast Heavers' Office?
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he would beg to put a question to the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs with respect to the outrage committed on a British subject, of which a report had recently appeared in the public papers. The outrage took place on the coast of North America. It was alleged that a lieutenant of Marines, serving on board an American ship, had wounded a British subject who had been taken on board a blockade runner, and under circumstances of some aggravation. The result was, that the British subject had been maimed for life. The question he had to ask was, Whether they had received at the Foreign Office any information respecting that case, and whether any communication had been addressed to the American Government on the subject?
 MR. BLACK  said, he wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade, as the Duty on rags continued to be charged at Leghorn up to the 14th of this month, Whether he understands that the Duty is abolished by the Italian Government, or that there is an agreement that it is to be abolished, and when?
 MR. LAYARD , in reply, said, Her Majesty's Government had received information on the subject which very nearly agreed with the information that had been published in the newspapers. Her Majesty's Government had demanded redress from the Government of the United States, and a correspondence had been going on for some time between the two Governments on the subject.
 MR. LAYARD  said, that the hon. Member for south Northumberland (Mr. Liddell) had on more than one occasion brought the question of China before the House, and he had done so with considerable ability. He would willingly admit that the opinions of the hon. Member, in consequence of the close study he had given to the subject, well deserved the consideration of the House. The hon. Member had to-night concluded his speech with a Motion, and it was only right that the House should at once be informed of the course which the Government intended to pursue with respect to that Resolution. The forms and rules of the House precluded him from moving the Previous Question, but the Government would support the Motion for going into Committee of Supply, to which the Resolution of the hon. Member might be regarded as an Amendment. They would do so because, whatever the words of the Resolution might be, the intention of the hon. Member, as explained in his speech, was that the policy hitherto pursued by the Government should be reversed, and that a course entirely different should be adopted in its stead. He thought he should be able to show that if such a Motion as that were carried, and a report of the debates of that House went out to China, the effect might be so disastrous that he believed no Government and no House of Commons would take on itself the responsibility of passing such a Resolution. He would now call attention to our position in China. The question was one of enormous importance, and the interests at stake were of vast magnitude.
 1524 1525 1526 1527 1528 1529 China Mail "Since we wrote last week upon the fall of Soochow further accounts tend to show that the slaughter of the besieged was not carried out to the extent which was on all hands expected. Indeed, from what we can learn, there was little more, comparatively speaking, than a show of bloodshed sufficient to stamp dung's troops with the character of conquerors. It is not unworthy of notice with regard to the Imperial troops under the Footai that, notwithstanding the number of ' eye witnesses' by which they were constantly surrounded, and the demand which existed in the news market, if we may so speak, for reports about Imperial cruelty, sanguinary atrocities, and so on, no instance of cruelty except that at Taitsan was ever adduced against them; and in that case the Chinese commander was remonstrated with…. The Footai in the hour of victory certainly forgot himself, and disgracefully broke faith with Major Gordon, but the indiscriminate slaughter of old and young at
 1530 1531 1532 "The belief that I, as British Minister, would respect the rights of the Chinese, and that I would not force the flotilla upon them from selfish political considerations, induced my colleagues to abstain from interfering while the question was under discussion, and thereby secured for the flotilla a deliberate and unfettered consideration on the part of the Chinese Government; and I am certain that this course was more favourable to the success of the scheme, had success been possible, than any other that could have been adopted. It appeared to me, also, that I should not have been justified in taking a more active part, for I had reason to believe that your Lordship had no cognizance of the undertaking of so novel a character entered into by Mr. Lay with Captain Osborn; and the absence of instructions was to me a significant proof that Her Majesty's Government had no intention of being a party to, or responsible for, the arrangements under which the operations of the flotilla were to be conducted." 1533 "In the case of China a step has been gained, though at the expense of a great dishonour to the nation. The Chinese have detected and frustrated the design of our Government in sending out mercenaries, ostensibly to serve the Emperor of China, but with secret instructions to seize the supreme command. This great England of ours has been placed by her rulers before the world in the position of a pickpocket caught with his hand on a handkerchief, and exposed to the jeerings of the crowd. But the filibustering policy has received a serious check, and the Order in Council inciting British soldiers and seamen in the name of their Sovereign to sell themselves as mercenaries to a barbarian Prince has been withdrawn." 1534 "The growth of Shanghai is wonderful; its population is estimated at 1,500,000, and it bids fair to become soon the most important city of the East. The Chinese flock to it on account of the security it enjoys, and the silk manufacture, which was destroyed by the Taeping occupation of Soochow and Hangchow, is taking root at Shanghai. It is a subject of great satisfaction to me that our resolution to save Shanghai from the destruction that menaced it at the hands of the Taeping hordes has not only been productive of great benefit to trade, but has afforded a safe asylum and an escape from ruin to so large a body of the industrious and respectable native population,"— correspondence 1535 "Mr. Burlinghame to Mr. Seward. "Legation of the United States, Pekin, "June 20, 1863. "In despatch No. 18, of June 2, 1862, I had the honour to write if the treaty Powers could agree among themselves to the neutrality of China and together secure order in the treaty ports, and give their moral support to that party in China in favour of order, the interests of humanity would be subserved. Upon my arrival at Pekin, I at once elaborated my views, and found, on comparing them with those held by the representatives of England and Russia, that they were in accord with theirs. After mature deliberation, we determined to consult and co-operate upon all questions… … In all our conversations Sir Frederick Bruce, with great force, urged the adoption of a co-operative policy in China, and as the representative of the largest trading power here said he was willing to lead in a liberal direction. Indeed, so striking were his views, and so in contrast to what had hitherto been the English policy, and so in accordance were they with the policy strongly urged by me before I came to Pekin, that I expressed a warm desire that he would present them to his Government that they might become the basis of our future co-operation.…Upon this frank avowal of the policy of England, it would be impossible to refuse co-operation. The Russian Minister and myself both concurred in the view that the position of Sir Frederick was just what we desired, and we hailed with delight its avowal. The French Minister, M. Berthemy, agrees with us. Being a broad and experienced statesman, he at once saw the advantages which would flow from the casting down of all jealousies, and by a co-operation on every material question in China…. The policy upon which we are agreed is briefly this—that while we claim our treaty right to buy and sell and hire in the treaty ports, subject in respect to our rights of property and person, to the jurisdiction of our own Governments, we will not ask for nor take concessions of territory in the treaty ports, or in any way interfere with the jurisdiction of the Chinese Government over its own people, nor ever menace the territorial integrity of the Chinese Empire. That we will not take part in the internal struggles in China beyond what is necessary to maintain our treaty rights. That the latter we will unitedly sustain against all who may violate them. To this end we are now clear in the policy of defending the treaty ports against the Taepings, or rebels, but in such a way as not to make war upon
 1536 1537 "I have no reason to think that if the Tappings had taken possession of the treaty ports they would have established order and good government, respected our treaties, or protected our trade. My whole knowledge of the Taepings leads me to an opposite conclusion," "Even if they had the will, I esteem them incapable of organizing a civil Government. They have held Nankin for eleven years, with little or no molestation for several years; but it is still only a fortified camp, absolutely without trade or population. The interior of the city is a desert. Having had the privilege of accompanying Admiral Hope in his expedition up the Yang-tze-kiang in 1861, I became acquainted with his views regarding the Taepings, He endeavoured to establish friendly relations with them, and in March, 1861, obtained permission for Lieutenant Colonel Wolsley, Vice Consul Hughes, Rev, Mr. Muirhead, and myself to reside in Nankin for a week, in order to become acquainted with the Taeping chiefs. Colonel Wolsley reported his impressions in his interesting  Narrative of the China War in "The course pursued by Sir James Hope towards the Taepings ought to be a convincing
 1538 modus operandi 1539 Chinese Recorder China Mail; Chinese Recorder 1540 China Mail
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, that a despatch from the  Chargé d' Affaires
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, What arrangements for the defence of the Bristol Channel have been made?
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, in reply, that no despatches had been received from India on that subject, and the only information he possessed was derived from private sources. The cholera had been exceedingly prevalent at Calcutta lately, and the greatest possible alarm had been created there in consequence. The state of the city was very bad, and the subject had been taken into consideration by the authorities with a view to remedy the evils complained of, and see what was to be done to check the spread of the disease. An order was subsequently issued to prevent the throwing of dead bodies into the Hooghly. Anything more disgusting and more calculated to generate disease than, the dead bodies floating up and down that river could hardly be imagined, and it was thought most desirable to prevent that practice. With regard to the burning of dead bodies, he did not believe that any
 1501
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  was understood to say, that it was stipulated that the territory of Dhar should be restored to its Rajah when he became eighteen years of age; but on his arriving at that age it was found that his physical and moral health was such as to render him quite incapable of discharging the duties of Government. Since that time he had very much improved, and although the whole administration of the country was not placed in his hands, by far the greatest portion of the business was carried on by himself and his Minister.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he wished to ask, Whether the Foreign Office have received the award of the Senate of Hamburg in the case of Captain Melville White, and whether they are prepared to lay it on the table of the House?
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he rose to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, When the Brehon Laws, now in course of arrangement and translation, will be published?
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he would beg to ask the noble Lord, Whether Her Majesty's Government intend to proceed with the Spithead Forts according to the original plans; or whether they have not altogether abandoned the idea of a fort on the Horseshoe Sands?
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : The Sturbridge and Horseshoe Forts?
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Then you do not intend to continue the plan?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  replied, that he did not understand from the information Her Majesty's Government had received, that the Italian Government had abolished the export duty on rags. Misapprehension had arisen on that subject,
 1504
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that instructions of that nature had been given.
 MR. FERRAND  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If Mr. Rawlinson, the Government engineer, has sent in his Report on the Bradford Reservoirs; and, if not, when he will do so?
 MR. FERRAND  said, he agreed with the hon. Member for Bradford (Mr. W. E. Forster) that the noble Lord at the head of the Government must experience some pain at what had taken place that night, when he considered how he himself must be identified with the policy which we had pursued towards China since 1832. He had heard the noble Lord protest, in eloquent and indignant language, against the atrocities perpetrated in Europe by military despotism; but he (Mr. Ferrand) doubted whether in the whole of Europe, during the last twenty-five years, atrocities had been perpetrated by any European authority to equal those which had been perpetrated in China under the government and instigation of the noble Lord. Atrocities had been perpetrated in the East which neither the British Government nor any other Government would dare to perpetrate in Europe. The noble Lord not long ago denounced the atrocities perpetrated in Poland, and the
 1546 1547
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, that in his opinion the hon. Member the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs (Mr. Layard), had not met this question at all. There was no one who thought we ought to withdraw protection from our trade in China. The Question before the House was whether they should sanction the interference of the Government in the civil war in China for the purpose of putting down the rebellion? His complaint was that the policy of the Government was not a fair policy as regarded that House. In the debate of last year a question was raised whether Her Majesty's Government intended to interfere for the purpose of putting down the rebellion, and reference was made to the movements of the flotilla. The hon. Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs, however, met that question by observing that Her Majesty's Government
 1541 1542 1543 1544 1545
 MR. F. S. POWELL  said, he wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman will lay those Instructions on the table?
 MR. F. S. POWELL  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether the Reports of Factory Inspectors, as printed and circulated, are copies of those originally sent in by the Inspectors; if not, what are the regulations under which revision or alteration of those Reports is conducted?
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in reply, said, the Reports of the Factory Inspectors, printed and circulated for some years past, were copies of those originally sent in by the Inspectors. The last Instructions issued on the subject were issued nearly nine years ago, when a letter was written to the Inspectors, pointing out to them that their efficiency depending on their Reports being calmly and impartially written, it would be better that they should avoid commenting on the decisions of magistrates, and also on what took place at public meetings at which their conduct was impugned. At the same time, the Inspectors were told that if they thought a defence of their conduct in any case was necessary, they might address a letter to the Secretary of State, and, if requisite, publicity would be given to it. Since those instructions were issued he did not think that he had had any reason to complain of any Report of a Factory Inspector.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he did not I think that that would be desirable, but he would look at them and see whether it could properly be done.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he believed that Mr. Rawlinson was incurring no unnecessary delay in preparing his Report, which he wished to make as complete as possible on all points.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, in reply, that he had received a letter from the Secretary of the Commission, stating that one volume was in the press and would be published forthwith. The rest would be got ready as speedily as possible.
 MR. HUTT  replied, that there was no intention whatever of interfering with the regulations of the Ballast Heavers' Office. On the contrary, he was very anxious to ' retain the regulations of that Office in their present position. Under the provisions of the Bill, considerable powers wore transferred from the Trinity House to the Thames Conservancy Board, and he believed that the Conservancy Board would not only maintain the Ballast Heavers' Office, but would act in the same spirit of kindness and consideration towards a hardworking and deserving body of men as the Trinity House had done.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : No, certainly not, when we cannot get good foundations. The Sturbridge Port will not be proceeded with.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : No, not both; only that of Sturbridge, in consequence of the foundations being bad.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he rather thought they had abandoned the Sturbridge Fort.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  replied, that his noble Friend at the head of the War Department had made arrangements for the purchase of sites at Portishead, with a view to the erection of batteries for the defence of the south side of that channel. There were two Holmes called the Steep and the Flat Holmes in that vicinity, and also another point, he thought, on the north side. Surveys were being made, and steps would be taken in order to obtain sites at those places in the event of batteries being required there.
 MR. PEEL  was understood to state that he had no objection to the production of' any papers on the subject which might be required.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that as the law stood, if a settlement contained a provision that after the death of the settler a given sum of money should be paid to a certain person, and if the sum of money so covenanted to be paid was settled, then it paid the stamp duty upon the amount settled. If in order to insure the payment of the sum by the Insurance Office a covenant to pay the premiums was inserted in the settlement, there was no difference in principle between the two cases.
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, he thought that the stamp duty on marriage settlements ought not to be charged at the same rate upon realized property, and which would accrue from a Life Insurance policy.
 MR. GREGSQN  said, he wished to point out that while under the measure there was to be a limit to the extent to which the non-active partner was to be liable, there was no limit as to the number of persons from whom credit might be obtained upon the strength of the sum which he advanced. Therefore, if a capitalist put £10,000 into a concern, and one man gave credit to the amount of £10,000 on the faith of the capital of £10,000 subscribed under the Act, a dozen other persons might do the same thing, and then where was the security for the creditor? In railways there was a limit on both sides; under the Bill there was not. He thought the hon. Gentleman might as well have gone a little further, and have applied the principle of limited liability to one as well as to two persons.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that with reference to what had passed on a previous night, he wished to explain that, in answer to an application from the hon. Member for Honiton, he had stated that he took a great interest in the subject of bankruptcy, but that if nominated on the
 1569
 MR. MOFFATT  said, he apprehended that it would be necessary, in the first instance, to move that the number of the Committee be enlarged to sixteen.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he wished the right hon. Gentleman would have the goodness to state what was the precise rule of the House to which he referred when he informed the hon. Baronet that he must confine himself to the Question that the Resolution be agreed to. It would be convenient to know whether they could not discuss grievances before they voted the money.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, he thought that the Bill would supply a great public want, which was finding its expression in the creation of credit companies. In times of peace there was an extension of enterprise, and this rendered fresh capital necessary. It had been said, if the principle of limited liability was to be carried so far, any one man should be able to limit his responsibility; but he took it that the very principle of the Bill was, that the man actually carrying on trade should be liable to his last shilling, but that those persons who should be registered as partners, simply contributing capital, should be responsible only to the amount for which they were registered. The Bill had been described as a capitalists' measure. He contended, on the other hand, that it was a trader's measure. It would enable honest industrious tradesmen to procure the capital which at present was beyond their reach, and would assimilate the law of England in that respect to the laws existing in every other country in Europe. He saw no reason why in this commercial country, where we had free trade in so many things, there should not be free trade in capital, provided the party who contracted the debt was held responsible for it.
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, he rose to make a personal explanation. In the observations which fell from him the other night on the Motion of the hon. Member for Liskeard (Mr. Bernal Osborne) he made a statement which might possibly do injustice to a distinguished and gallant officer, Admiral Mundy. On that occasion he stated that if General Garibaldi was to be believed his success in Sicily was owing to the material assistance which he received from Admiral Mundy. That was stated in the newspaper report, and it was a fair illustration of the argument that he used. However, as he had since ascertained that there was not a syllable of truth in the assertion of General Garibaldi, it was only right that he should state his sincere conviction that Admiral Mundy neither directly or indirectly interfered so as to commit a breach of neutrality, and that when he received General Garibaldi on; board his flag ship in the harbour of Palermo, he did so at the request of General Lanza, the royalist commander. Afterwards Admiral Mundy made prisoners of the Garibaldian pirates who had seized the British ship  Orwell
 MR. BUTT  moved, after Clause 8, to insert the following clause:—
 (Sheriff may issue a special warrant.) Provided always, That if at any time the sheriff shall in his discretion think fit that in any case any other person or persons besides the ordinary bailiff should be employed in the execution of any civil bill decree, then and in that case it shall be lawful for the sheriff, in addition to the warrant added to the civil bill decree, to issue under his hand and seal a special warrant addressed to any person or persons whom the sheriff may see fit to nominate, and inserting in such warrant the substance of the decree, and every such warrant shall be a sufficient authority to the persons named therein to proceed in the execution of such decree, and the sheriff shall be responsible for all the acts of such persons in the same manner as
 1557
 MR. BUTT  said, that because he desired to see the law assimilated in the two countries, he would support the clause with the restrictions proposed by the hon. Member for Clare. He denied that jury-packing was the practice in Ireland. He would, however, propose the omission of that part of the clause which limited the costs of a plaintiff recovering under £20.
 MR. BUTT  said, he would move the insertion of £20. Many cases involving important principles and issues occurred in which the money claim was not greater
 1558
 MR. BUTT  said, that to delay the Bill so long would be to lose it.
 MR. WHITESIDE  suggested that it would be better to postpone it till after that period.
 MR. WHITESIDE  expressed a desire that the name of the hon. Member for the City of Dublin (Mr. Vance) might be added to the Committee.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he thought it must be admitted that the Irish Administration were at last approaching subjects of some importance. The Civil Bill Act had been amended that evening, and the House was then asked to plunge into Chancery;
 1585 1586 "Power, however, should be given to the Lord Chancellor, with the advice and consent of the Master of the Rolls and Vice Chancellor, or one of them, by order under their hands, to appoint an additional chief clerk or assistant clerk to the Master of the Rolls and Vice Chancellor, or either of them." 1587 1588 1589 1590 "In my opinion the working of the jurisdiction which the Masters exercise in Ireland, under the 15th section of the Irish Chancery Regulation. Act, is satisfactory," "The system of proceeding by cause petitions and affidavits in the courts of the Lord Chancellor and the Master of the Rolls, as affected by the Irish Chancery Regulation Act, is a vast improvement upon the present system, though capable of being still further modified." 1591
 MR. WHITESIDE  explained that he had brought in the Bill to limit the Judges in the Incumbered Estates Court of Ireland to two, but was forced to allow three Judges to continue.
 MR. SPEAKER  held that notice of the alteration must be given.
 MR. SPEAKER : In order that every opportunity might he afforded to hon. Gentlemen to speak on the subject, I delayed in rather an unusual manner in putting the Question. The rule of the House is this:— On the Report of Supply, the Question is, "That this Resolution be read a first time." Then, "That it be read a second time." When the Question is put that the Resolution be read a second time, it is open to any hon. Member to make any observations he may think necessary. I do not know if any hon. Member observed it, but I rather paused in putting the Question that the Resolution be read a second time. No hon. Member rising to make any observations, the rule of the House is, that when the Resolution is read a second time, and the Question is that the House do agree
 1552
 MR. SPEAKER  said that, according to the rules of the House, the Question must refer directly to the Resolution itself.
 MR. SPEAKER  read the Resolution—
 "That, in lieu of the yearly per-centage Duty now chargeable for or in respect of any Insurance from loss or damage by Fire only, which shall be made or renewed on or after the 25th day of June, 1864, of or upon any Goods, Wares, or Merchandise, being stock in trade, or of or upon any Machinery, Fixtures, Implements, or Utensils used for the purpose of any manufacture or trade, there shall be charged and paid yearly a Duty at and after the rate of one shilling and sixpence per annum for every £100 insured; and when any such Insurance as aforesaid shall be made or renewed at any time between the 22nd day of April, 1864, and the said 25th day of June, for any period of time extending beyond the said last-mentioned day, there shall be charged and paid for and in respect of the time intervening between the making or renewing of the said Insurance and the said 25th day of June, the yearly per-centage Duty at and after the rate chargeable on the said 22nd day of April, and for and in respect of any subsequent period, including the said 25th day of June, the rate of Duty chargeable according to this Resolution; and no return or allowance of Duty, except at and after the last-mentioned rate, shall be made in respect of time unexpired, or otherwise, on any such Insurance as aforesaid, which shall have been made or renewed before the said 22nd day of April, 1864."
 MR. GEORGE  said, he thought the clause most objectionable. He regarded it as an endeavour, by a side wind, to limit the jurisdiction of the Civil Bill Courts. If there were to be a  certiorari
 MR. GEORGE  said, he should offer no factious opposition to the bringing in of the Bill, but he had to remark that what had occurred that night was a sufficient justification of the course taken by his right hon. and learned Friend and others in preventing the introduction of the Bill on a former occasion without any statement. When the Reports of the Committee and of the Commission came to be examined, there would, he thought, be found reasons for doubting whether the Bill would become the law of the land. He hoped the second reading would not be taken till after Whitsuntide.
 MR. HENNESSY  desired the Attorney General to state distinctly whether he would agree to postpone the next stage of the Bill till after Whitsuntide. It was not right that these important measures should be brought on so late at night, when there were not half a dozen Members present, when the Ministers had all retired, and even the Chief Secretary had gone to bed. If the right hon. and learned Gentleman would not give him an answer, he knew what would happen.
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he hoped that his hon. Friend (Mr. Scholefield) would not think he impugned his motives in bringing forward the Bill, or that he wished to oppose all improvements in commercial legislation, because he felt obliged to move, as an Amendment, that it be read a second time that day six months. This Bill was not identical with any of the measures on the same subject which had been before presented to the House; nor was it entitled to the support which previous Bills had received from the great
 1561 au fait 1562 en commandite commandite 1563
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, he wished to put a question, of which he had given notice, to the Secretary of State for the Home Department with reference to a meeting held on Primrose Hill on Saturday last, which had been dispersed in a very summary manner. He wished to know, Whether the right hon. Baronet had given any and what instructions to the Police to disperse the meeting over which Mr. Edmund Beales presided; and, if he had not given such instructions, whether he has inquired into the circumstances, and will state the result of his inquiries to the House?
 MR. LOCKE  said, he did not rise to oppose the Bill, but to say that he had expected some statement would have been made with regard to the provisions of the measure, that those persons who were deeply interested in it might know what ! they were to expect either for their benefit or injury. He believed that some of the clauses, though only those who were  au fait 1559
 MR. LOCKE  said, he would move that the name of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck), be also added.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he wished to ask Mr. Attorney General for Ireland, Whether the Report of the Royal Commissioners with respect to the Irish Admiralty Court has been received by the Government; and, if so, when the promised Bill for the reconstitution of that Court will be introduced?
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he wished to know what the Resolution was about. He had not been able to hear a word of it as read, and he did not think any other Member had been able to collect its purport.
 MR. VANCE  said, he saw no necessity for the violent changes proposed in the Bill. It could not be defended on the ground of economy, for it would pay off the present officers only for the purpose of creating others. Neither the Lord Chancellor nor the Dublin Chamber of Commerce approved the measure, and the Report of the Commission on which it was based was more than counterbalanced by the Report of the very able Committee, which came to quite a different conclusion. There was great alarm and dissatisfaction among his constituents as to these continual changes in the administration of the
 1593
 MR. KIRKMAN HODGSON  said, that he could see no objection to the principle of the Bill. If under its operation persons obtained credit to which they were not entitled, it could only be in consequence of want of prudence on the part of those who trusted them. The great evil of commerce at the present moment was that men gave credit to others without inquiring what was their property, or what right they had to be trusted. The hon. Member for Buckingham seemed to object to the Bill because it would compel persons to inquire what
 1566
 MR. HASSARD  said, that he would be glad to make way for the hon. Member, he himself being engaged upon another Committee.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he should support the clause, as the power given by it was only available under the discretion of a Judge.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he did not see why, on the matter referred to, power should not be given to sell chattel interests under a Civil Bill execution.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he should oppose the clause. It was notorious that in Ireland it was the practice of the country for the sheriffs to pack the juries; and it would be monstrous to give those officers the privilege of having actions brought against them for wrong done to be tried in their own counties.
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  said, it was hardly fair of the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Whiteside) to oppose the introduction of a Bill founded upon the Report of a Commission. He was also surprised at some of his observations, especially with reference to the Incumbered Estates question. The right hon. and learned Gentleman had always been ready to appoint his own friends to offices when he had the opportunity, and he (Sir Patrick O'Brien) did not blame him for doing so; but he was astonished to see him, the head of the legal profession in Ireland, come down here and oppose the introduction of a measure of the kind before them upon such grounds as he had given.
 MR. MALINS  said, it was impossible not to see that the speech of the hon. Member for Buckingham was in favour of unlimited liability, but he thought the House would consider it was impossible for them to retrace their steps and adopt the principle which the hon. Gentleman advocated. Limited liability was a principle firmly established in the minds of commercial men, and it was being acted upon every day to a surprising extent. Joint-stock companies and banks were being carried on upon that principle, and experience showed that great commercial concerns could not be carried on so well by individuals as by companies, because, among other reasons, they were subject to changes inconsequence of deaths, which tended to interfere with their prosperity. What the Bill under these circumstances proposed to do was to extend the benefit of the limited liability principle to establishments comprising a smaller number of partners than legally constituted a company. That, however, the hon. Member for Buckingham contended was a course opposed to all commercial morality, but why it should be so, he, for one, could not understand. It was to the advantage of the public that young men who possessed skill and ability, though they might not have capital, should be able to enter into business; and his hon. Friend the Member for Birmingham desired to confer facilities for that purpose. But by the law, as it stood, a man of capital could not assist a
 1564 1565
 MR. MALINS  said, he thought that upon the last point which he mentioned the Chancellor of the Exchequer might very properly make a further concession. It was a common thing for a husband to make a marriage settlement, a policy of insurance upon his life being the subject of the settlement. Supposing the case of a policy of insurance of £10,000 being so settled, upon which only one premium, amounting perhaps to £100, had been paid, it would be a hardship to call upon the settler to pay an  ad valorem ad valorem
 MR. LONGFIELD  moved, after Clause 5, to insert the following clause:—
 The chairman shall have power to fine any of the bailiffs appointed to execute civil bill decrees for neglect or misconduct in a sum not exceeding five pounds, to be levied by distress on his goods and chattels. agreed to
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, he wished to propose a clause that all actions against the sheriff should be laid in the county for which such sheriff was appointed, and that the defendant might plead the general issue.
 MR. TORRENS  said, that he would withdraw his Amendment, on the understanding that the right hon. and learned Gentleman would represent to the Lord Lieutenant the hardship of the case of Carrickfergus.
 MR. TORRENS  proposed to insert words for the purpose of re-constituting the Civil Bill Court in Carrickfergus.
 MR. O'HAGAN  said, there was no necessity for the Amendment, because the Lord Lieutenant had already the power under the Civil Bill Act, 15  Vict
 MR. O'HAGAN (THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND)  explained the nature of some changes that had been made in the Bill. They had intended to make the Sub Sheriffs the officers of the court, but on consulting with the grand juries it was considered by them and by the High She-
 1556
 MR. O'HAGAN  said, he could not accept the clause, which he thought would be a departure from the principle of the Bill.
 MR. O'HAGAN  said, in reply, that the Report of the Commissioners had not yet been laid before the Government, but there had been a final meeting of the Commissioners, and he hoped their Report would be such an one as might be acted upon.
 MR. O'HAGAN (THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND) : Mr. Speaker, Sir, in moving for leave to introduce a Bill to alter the constitution and amend the practice and course of proceeding of the High Court of Chancery in Ireland, I have to, crave the indulgence of the House while I state the circumstances under which the Bill was framed, and refer, as briefly as I can, to some of the details of the measure. And it will be convenient in the first place, with a view to understanding the necessity that exists for this measure, that I should state something of the circumstances which have produced in the system of Equity practice and procedure in the two countries a divergence of a very remarkable and, I think, a very unfortunate character. It is matter of common notoriety that, for a lengthened period, great dissatisfaction pre-
 1570 Will Vict Vict Vict 1571 Will Vict 1572 1573 1574 
 
 1. "The constitution, establishment, practice, procedure, and fees of the Superior Courts of Common Law in Ireland. 2. The differences between the constitution and the forms of practice, procedure, and fees of the Courts of Chancery of England and of Ireland." "On the general question of assimilation of Equity practice and procedure, and the changes connected with it, we are of opinion—
 
 1. That it is expedient that the system of practice and procedure of the Courts of Chancery of England and of Ireland should be assimilated as far as practicable. 2. That the practice and procedure of the Court of Chancery of England are generally to be preferred to the practice and procedure of the Court of Chancery of Ireland. 3. That demurrers should be allowed for want of equity or for rnultifariousness only. 4. That the Irish rule of not requiring an at tachment, and a return of  non est inventus 1575 Our recommendations as to the changes in the constitution and fees of the Court of Chancery of Ireland, rendered necessary by the adoption of assimilation, are as follows:— We are of opinion—
 
 1. That the office of Master in Chancery in Ireland, other than that of the Receiver Master, should be abolished. 2. That the existing Master should be retained so long as it may be found necessary that they may, as far as practicable, complete the business pending before them. 3. That, having regard to the special statutable duties now discharged by the Receiver Master, that office should be retained. 4. That the Master of the Rolls, with one Vice Chancellor, having each one chief clerk and two assistant clerks in addition to the Lord Chancellor and Lord Justice of Appeal, will be sufficient to dispose of the Equity business in Ireland. That it is desirable that power be given to the Lord Chancellor, with the advice and consent of the Master of the Rolls and Vice Chancellor in Ireland, or one of them, by order under their hands, to appoint an additional chief clerk or assistant clerks to the Master of the Rolls and Vice Chancellor, or either of them. That power should be given to the Lord Chancellor of Ireland, with the advice and consent of the Lord Justice of Appeal, Master of the Rolls, and the Vice Chancellor in Ireland, or any two of them, to regulate the fees to be paid, so far as it shall be necessary to make any changes in the same in consequence of the alterations produced in Equity practice and procedure by carrying into effect the preceding recommendations." primâ facie 1576 Vict Vict Vict 1577 1578 1579 "The procedure introduced into Ireland by the Chancery Regulation Act of 1850, of petition, answering affidavit, and affidavits by way of evidence without proper limits to the filing of such affidavits, has not, in our opinion, worked satisfactorily. "The references to Masters are attended with all the disadvantages which led to the abolition of the office of Master in England. "The jurisdiction under the fifteenth section of the Irish Chancery Regulation Act of 1850, has generally failed in the objects for which it was intended, and has not been attended with the advantages experienced under the English system, based upon the recommendations of the English Chancery Commissioners of 1850. There are,
 1580 "Our greatest want has been the deficiency of information for the practitioner's guidance, and the most valuable of all reforms would be the adoption of the practice of the English Court of Chancery, with its precise rules and printed decisions. Since 1850 we have been like travellers without a chart. The Act of that year, see. 17, empowered the Master, without reference to any rule or course of practice of the Court, save as by the Act provided, to regulate the course of proceedings as he might think expedient for rendering the same speedy and inexpensive, so far as justice would admit. So vast a power exercised by five Judges, whose decisions are not reported, nor even known in the other Masters' offices, though hitherto exercised, I believe, with great caution and moderation, cannot but have led to much diversity of practice and caused great perplexity, of which both counsel and solicitors frequently and justly complain. The obvious remedy is to bring us under the control of English authorities, which are accessible to all; and if there be any particulars in which our system is superior to the English, we would gladly surrender the advantage, if we could thereby obtain the benefit of fixed and known rules of procedure." "In my opinion, the working of the present system of proceeding by general cause petition and affidavits in Ireland, has been unsatisfactory. For a considerable period after the introduction of the system the utmost confusion and the loosest practice prevailed, and these continued long subsequently to the time at which they should have ceased, if they were to be regarded simply as the natural or unavoidable consequences of a new state of things; in fact, they have not yet been entirely removed, and they seem to me to exist as incident to the present system of Equity procedure." "Under the system which has obtained in the Equity Court of Ireland, since the passing of the Chancery Regulation Act, 1850, many useless technicalities have been abolished, and the costs of suits as regards pleadings and some other items
 1581 v "I entertain and desire respectfully to express the strongest opinion, that the change of procedure in the Irish Equity Courts which would be most beneficial to all parties interested, to the Judges, and to the bar, to solicitors and suitors, would be the simple substitution for it of the system of the English Equity Courts. If the English system were inferior to that of Ireland, I think compensation would be found in the advantages of uniformity in the administration of the same law in all the Courts of the United Kingdom, and in the aids which Judges and lawyers would derive from reported decisions on the rules of a common system. But if, as think, the English system on the whole, and in almost all its details, is superior to that of Ireland, the principles of public policy and justice to this country seem to call for the substitution which I have presumed to suggest." "I think the present system of proceeding by cause petition and affidavits, in the Courts of the Lord Chancellor and Master of the Rolls in Ireland, under the Chancery Regulation Act of 1850, works unsatisfactorily in several respects. Thus, without noticing mere details, our procedure is, in my mind, highly objectionable in its combination, or rather confusion of pleading and evidence in the same document; in the indefinite allowance of alternate statements, instead of having fixed times for closing, first the pleadings and then the evidence; in the practical admission of hearsay, and other illegal evidence in affidavits; and in the absence of any efficient check on the manifest tendency to misstatement and suppression of material facts. "As to the other parts of the practice and procedure of the Court of Chancery in Ireland, under the Irish Chancery Regulation Act of 1850,' besides those already observed upon, they are of comparatively small importance. In themselves they are, perhaps, for the most part, unobjectionable; but I would earnestly recommend that the system of procedure, as a whole, should be made identical with that of the English Courts of Chancery. There is nothing whatever to justify the maintenance of a distinct and different system here. Without insisting on the truth, that all needless
 1582 1583 Geo 1584 s d s d
 MR. O'HAGAN  said, the clause was quite novel, and beyond the scope of the Bill.
 MR. O'HAGAN  said, he thought the manner in which the Question had been put to him quite unjustifiable. He was quite willing to allow reasonable time for considering the Bill—say a fortnight or so—but hoped it would be read a second time before Whitsuntide.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, he had understood the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer to say, that there would be no extra duty imposed by the Bill under the consideration of the House. He found, however, that on orders of all kinds for receiving money, stocks, shares, or any property partaking of the character of stocks, there was to be a duty of 5 s
 MR. SCULLY  said, he objected to the power proposed by the clause to be given to County Court Judges to force arbitration upon suitors. He should move the omission of the clause.
 MR. SCULLY  said, he thought that the right hon. and learned Gentleman should have permitted the Bill to be printed before entering into a discussion upon its merits. At the same time, he should be happy to give the right hon. and learned Gentleman any assistance in his power to oppose the perpetration of any job, or the addition of any new burdens to the Consolidated Fund. He (Mr. Scully) would be glad to avail himself of the present staff, and to make one of the Masters a Vice Chancellor; for that gentleman had no more right to be pensioned off than any clerk in the office. It might be that the Irish Vice Chancellor would be unapproachable; certainly the English was such. It was true that the Irish Judges were the aristocracy of Dublin, while the English Judges were scarcely of the middle classes of England. He believed the right hon. and learned Gentleman to be mistaken in his estimate of the speed with which business was transacted in the Master's Office. The right hon. and learned Gentleman would find it rather difficult to extricate himself if he were unfortunate enough ever to become involved in legal proceedings in the Master's Office. A system of great delay existed, especially in connection with suits for the sale of property. Under the old method, suits had lasted thirty, sixty, and even eighty years, and though that state of things had been improved, he was sorry to say that of late years there had been a tendency to relapse. The affairs of Mr. John Sadleir, as a case in point, were not set free for nine years. It was necessary that some of the existing evils should be removed, but the Lord Chancellor and the Master of the Rolls could not agree in framing the necessary rules, and for that reason he approved of the Bill, because it would make the necessary changes effectual by Act of Parliament.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he could not speak again, but he believed that he should be able to satisfy the hon. Baronet at a future stage of the Bill.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he rose to move that this Bill be read a second time. He would take that opportunity of giving the information sought the other evening by the hon. Baronet the Member for Ayrshire (Sir James Fergusson), with regard to the estimated value of the new assessment for Income Tax. The hon. Baronet was under the impression that no allowance was made for that new assessment; but that was not so. The new assessment under Schedules A and B, which took place in 1857, exhibited an increase of £12,000,000 over that for 1856 in the amount of property and profits charged to duty; the new assessment for 1861 exhibited an increase of £9,000,000 over that for 1860. It might fairly be presumed, therefore, that a new assessment for 1864 would result in an increase of at least £9,000,000 under those schedules over those for 1863, which at the rate of 6 d d 1553
 MR. BUCHANAN  said, he held that the previous adoption of the principle of limited liability in favour of certain companies could not be advanced in support of the measure, as it extended the principle so far as virtually to create a new one. The statement that the question was vir-
 1568
 MR. ALDERMAN ROSE  said, he wished to draw attention to the fact that the corporation of London was very much interested in the Bill. The Conservancy Act had its origin in a protracted dispute between the corporation and the Crown regarding the right to the bed and soil of the Thames. That dispute was terminated by a compromise, and between £6,000 and £7,000 was paid to the Crown solicitor as part of the arrangement. He, therefore, thought it hard that only seven years after a compromise had been come to upon the subject, they were called upon again to consider the construction of the Conservancy Board. He must also say, that he concurred in the remarks of the hon. Member (Mr. Locke) in reference to the watermen, whom he should be sorry to see suffer by any change; but as they were assured by the right hon. Gentleman that all interests should be fully considered, he should not, at that stage, offer any opposition to the measure.
 MR. SCHOLEFIELD , in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, its principle was identical with that of the Bill which he brought forward in the previous year, which was referred to a Select Committee, but was sent up to the House of Lords at too late a period of the year to allow of its passing into law. The difficulty which the Bill was intended to remove was this—If a capitalist wished to lend money to a
 1560 qua
 MR. SCHOLEFIELD  said, he wished to explain that the Bill had been delivered to him in its then shape, and that he had only been able to read its principal clauses. He should be very glad to extend its operation to Scotland.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he would not object to the clause if some Amendments were made upon it.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he thought the clause too important to be decided without fuller discussion than could be then given to it; but it did not really belong to the objects of the present Bill, which were chiefly to regulate the execution of Civil Bill process.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  moved, after Clause 25, to insert the following clause: —
 (Interest in land not to be sold under civil bill execution.) It shall not be lawful to seize or sell under any civil bill execution any term for years, or any estate or interest in lands.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, the speech of his hon. Friend the Member for Buckingham (Mr. Hubbard), seemed to be based on the principle that where there was unlimited profit there should be unlimited liability; but he was sure the House would say it was too late to go on a principle which had already received a negative by the decision of Parliament. Again, the hon. Member appeared to think that the Bill introduced a new principle destructive to the sound doctrines of commercial law and commercial morality. It was no new principle at all. It was a principle more than 2,000 years old; and they would find embodied in the civil law every possible variation and modification of the law of unlimited liability. If the question came
 1567
 SIR GEORGE GREY  was understood to say that the Bill merely recognized the existing licences, giving the owner power under certain restrictions of having occasional licences. But the points raised by the hon. Gentleman could be discussed with more advantage in Committee.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had to state, in answer to the Question of his hon. Friend, that neither he nor any Member of the Government, nor the Commissioner of Police, had given any special instructions to the Police to interfere with the meeting held on Primrose Hill on Saturday, Indeed, he never heard of such a meeting being held there till yesterday morning. but the facts he had ascertained to be these:—The First Commissioner of Works had given his sanction to the holding of a meeting in connection with the Shakspeare Commemoration, for planting a tree on Primrose Hill, and at his suggestion the Commissioner of Police had made arrangements for the attendance of a certain number of Police to prevent obstructions and; preserve order. After planting the tree, a person was moved into the chair, and another got upon a bench to address the meeting on a different subject; on which an Inspector of Police went up to him and requested to be allowed to speak to him. The person came down, when the Inspector told him he could not be allowed to hold the meeting there. A short conference took place. There was no violence whatever; the people quietly dispersed, and the meeting was adjourned till another time and place. He ought to state that, owing to the scenes which some time since had taken place owing to meetings held in Hyde Park, a notice was issued forbidding all assemblages of persons in any of the Parks for the purpose of delivering speeches or discussing exciting topics leading to disorder, such meetings being wholly incon-
 1550
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he would remind the right hon. Gentleman that he had not carried out his promise, that under Schedules A and B the assessment was to be made by Inland Revenue officers, instead of by the local assessors. He thought that the burdens of the Income Tax would be considerably mitigated if the Government availed themselves of the services of the local assessors, instead of permitting the Inland Revenue officers to do the work.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he rose to put a Question—
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he proposed to make some observations with reference to Supply.
 MR. CAVE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether he will lay upon the table, in order to complete the Papers already promised, the communication stated by him to have been sent from the Treasury to the West India Colonies two years ago, apprising them that they would be called upon to contribute to the new Mail Packet Contract, as well as any Replies received from them thereto; and whether similar notices were sent to those Foreign Countries and Colonies whose Mails are conveyed under the same Contract?
 MR. HUTT  observed, that the Bill was one of that description which was known by the term hybrid—that is, it partook of the nature both of a public and also of a private measure. The general course with regard to such Bills, was to send them to a Select Committee, and all parties who supposed themselves aggrieved, or who desired Amendments in the measure, might offer evidence, and be heard by counsel. Subsequently, the clauses would be again considered in a Committee of the Whole House, and every possible care would thus be taken to remedy any grievance which might be thought to exist.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, there
 1554
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the Report of the Select Committee on Standing Orders of the 8th of March, 1864, in the case of the Sheffield, Chesterfield, and Staffordshire Railway Bill, and to move—
 "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the operation of the Standing Orders of this House, and of the Act 9 & 10  Vict 1619 1620
 MR. SOMERSET BEAUMONT  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the Blockade proclaimed by the Danish Government against certain ports in the Baltic will be raised in the event of an armistice being agreed to by the Powers met in Conference?
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he rose to move a Resolution on the necessity for the construction of harbours of refuge, and in so doing he would say that he wished to alter the terms from the Resolution as it stood originally on the paper, so that it would now run thus:—"That, in the opinion of this House, Her Majesty's Government should now adopt measures for the construction of Harbours of Refuge on the coasts of Great Britain and Ireland, recommended by a Committee of the House in 1858, by a Royal Commission in 1859, and by a Resolution of this House in 1860." What he wished to point out was this, that two Committees of that House and a Royal Commission had recommended that harbours of refuge should be constructed, and that recommendation had been confirmed by a. Resolution of that House. He had no desire to point out to the Government the method in which they should carry out the recommendations, but he did hope they would take such steps as they might judge best for constructing those harbours of refuge which had been so frequently and so strongly recommended. The hon. Baronet the Member for Stamford (Sir Stafford Northcote) had put a notice upon the paper by which he proposed to add certain words to the Resolution, and he (Mr. Lindsay) had altered its terms in the hope that the hon. Baronet would not think it necessary to move the addition. He did not believe that the hon. Baronet was opposed to the construction of those harbours, but that, considering the position which he then occupied in that House, and the higher position which he was likely to occupy, and deservedly so, he was no doubt frightened at the very large claim that might be made upon him by-and-by for the construction of harbours of refuge. He was therefore not surprised, under the circumstances, that the hon. Gentleman should have thought of adding the words standing upon the paper to the Motion of which he had given notice. But that Motion only called upon the Government to carry out the repeated recommendations in favour of harbours of refuge, leaving them free to determine what measures were best for that purpose. In connection with the subject it was impossible to pass over a paper from the Board of Trade which had been laid upon the table of the House.
 1661 1662 1663 1664 1665 1666
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had made a very curious statement, the last portion of which did not appear to bear on the subject. He had urged on the shipping interest the necessity of being self-reliant, and yet he had given the House a long list of enactments passed for the regulation of the shipping interest. He should like to know whether the right hon. Gentleman's statement as to the loss of life referred to the losses all over the world, or on the coasts of England only. The right hon. Gentleman gave the House the number of British ships all over the world, but the wreck Return was, he feared, the list of the vessels lost on the coast of the United Kingdom. The effect of that legislation had been, he said, very beneficial, yet the right hon. Gentleman hoped it would not be carried too far, and that the shipping interest would not cease to be self-reliant. The Legislature had been particularly kind to the shipping interest during the last thirty years, and that interest was getting every day more and more into leading-strings. They bad got a Return, extending over thirteen years, of the success of this "meddling and muddling "—to use a favourite phrase. The recent wreck Return stated that in 1852 of the whole number of British vessels one vessel came to grief in every
 1694 1695
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, that as a member, both of the Committee and Commission, he stood forward to defend the Estimate which had been attacked by the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade. The details had been repeatedly gone into, and after the sittings of the Committee had closed, the professional members remained for several weeks going over the Estimates in the most minute and cautious manner. There was not one of those gentlemen who would not pledge his reputation for the sufficiency of the amount, and a strong argument in confirmation of the Estimate was afforded by the fact that one of the most extensive contractors, a gentleman who had been engaged by the Government upon works at Portland, at Holyhead, and at Anglesea, had expressed in writing his willingness to carry out the works proposed, in accordance with the plans, and at the rate of remuneration specified in the Report. The right hon. Gentleman attacked the Committee for having exceeded their duty in stating how the funds were to be raised, but having ascertained that there existed on the part of the shipowners an insurmountable aversion to the method previously contemplated, it was only their duty to acquaint the House and the Government frankly with the fact. The harbours had been divided into two classes—those for the preservation of life and those for commercial purposes. The former they proposed to construct at the public expense; in the formation of the latter to assist in a stipulated proportion. Was not that plan a fair and just one? If the local contributions were withheld, the country would only have to pay £1,500,000 instead of £4,000,000; if, on the contrary, local contributions were given, the country would reap the advantage in vastly im-
 1696
 MR. LINDSAY , in reply, said, he had to complain of some of the statements which had been made by the representative of the Board of Trade. The sum and substance of the right hon. Member's speech was, that harbours of refuge were neither necessary nor desirable. Against this, there were the Report of two Committees, the Report of the Royal Commission, the Resolution of the House, the speech on a former occasion of the right hon. Gentleman himself, and the speech of the noble Viscount at the head of the Government. What he (Mr. Lindsay) asked the House to say was, that the harbours of refuge should be constructed; and he asked the Government to carry out the recommendations, leaving it to them to provide the necessary funds in their own way.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  seconded the Motion.
 MR. TAYLOR  said, that in consequence of discrepancies between the statement made by the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary as to what occurred last Saturday at the meeting on Primrose Hill, and what had been represented to him by persons who were present at that meeting, he thought it would be for the benefit of the public that the real facts should be known, and therefore he would move for an Address for a Copy of the Report of the Superintendent or Inspector in command of the Police employed at Primrose Hill on Saturday last, together with any Instructions that were issued to the Police upon that occasion.
 MR. HANBURY TRACY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether the attention of the Admiralty has been drawn to the failure of the old pattern vent-pieces of the 40-pounder Armstrong Guns in the action off Kagosima; and whether the Admiralty intend to withdraw from the service all the old pattern vent-pieces of the 40-pounder Gun, substituting the present pattern authorized as long ago as May, 1862, and adapting the earlier Guns for the present vent-pieces?
 LORD ALFRED CHURCHILL  said, he was much gratified to hear the assurance which the right hon. Gentleman had given with respect to the future government of New Zealand. He had no doubt that if the line of policy enunciated by the right hon. Gentleman should be carried out under the able administration of Sir George Grey, it would conduce very much to the consolidation and strengthening of the Imperial Government in that country. It was difficult to come at the origin of the "King movement," but it was, he believed, to be partly attributed to the desire of the Natives for the establishment
 1653 s s d s
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET , in reply, said, the attention of the Admiralty had been called to the defects in the vent-pieces, not only of the 40-pouuders but
 1625
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he would wish to describe in no other language than that used by the right hon. Gentleman his estimate of the measures, passed by the New Zealand Legislature. That language was highly creditable to the right hon. Gentleman, but he confessed he should have listened with much greater satisfaction to the right hon. Gentleman if he had stated that the atrocious Bill passed by that Legislature was to be disallowed by the Crown. As to the plan proposed, he feared it was cumbrous and might fail to attain the object desired. There were two objections to it. One of the great evils of confiscating all the land of the Natives, the innocent as well as the guilty, was that the difficulty of pacification was increased a hundredfold by reinforcing the enemy with tribes which were then, perhaps, doubtful or wavering in their allegiance. As he understood, there was no intention of proclaiming that this Act should be limited.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he had understood the right hon. Gentleman to say that the Bill would be introduced as soon as the war was terminated.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL : But suppose the war to continue, and the Natives to know that the Act had been sanctioned by the Queen, and that they had no further security for the possession of their land, they would have reason to say that
 1651 1652
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he rose to move that a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into any plans for dealing with the Sewage of the Metropolis and other large Towns, with a view to its utilization for agricultural purposes. He did not desire to enter into the commercial value of sewage. All he wished was the Committee should consider the plans which had been laid before the Metropolitan Board of Works for transporting sewage from London and other large towns to the country. It was very desirable to know how the engineering difficulties could be overcome, in order to the utilization of sewage. The Government were favourable to the Committee, the Metropolitan Board were most desirous that it should be appointed, and the rate payers were also anxious that an inquiry should take place, in order to their relief, it possible, from a portion of the burden of local taxation. The Lord Mayor and Sheriffs had appeared at the Bar of the House, and petitioned in favour of the appointment of the Committee.
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the War now going on in New Zealand, and to move an Address to the Crown praying that all Correspondence that had taken place between Governor Sir George Grey and the Colonial Office relating to the policy of confiscation which had been adopted by the New Zealand Legislature, might be laid before Parliament. The
 1626 1627 1628 "Some of the most populous districts, such as Hokianga and Kaipara, have no magistrates resident among them; and many others, such as Taupo, the Ngatiruanui, Taranaki, and others, and the country round the East Cape, have never been visited by an officer of Government. The residents in these districts have never felt that they are the subjects of the Queen of England, and have little reason to think that the Government of the colony cares about their welfare." 1629 "You have now, as a fact, the establishment of something analogous to a general government among the Maories—a recognition, on their part, of the necessity of some paramount authority. This is a step in the right direction; do not ignore it. Do not, on the ground that some evil may possibly spring from it, make the Natives suspicious of your motive by opposing it, but avail yourself of the opportunity to introduce some more of the elements of good government among them. Suggest to them the necessity of defining and limiting the power of the person who has been elected as the Chief or King (I should not quarrel with the name), of establishing some system of legislation, simple, of course, at first, but capable of being modified and improved; but do not attempt to introduce the complicated arrangements suited to a civilized and educated people; recognize publicly and openly the Maories, not merely as individual subjects of the Queen, but as a race—a body whose interests you are bound to respect and promote; and then give to that body the means of deciding what their interests are, and of submitting them, in a proper form, for your consideration." "Whereas an engagement for the purchase of a certain tract of land at the Waitara, commonly known as Teira's block, was entered into by the Government of New Zealand in the year 1859, but the said purchase has never been completed; and whereas circumstances connected with the said purchase, unknown to the Government at the time of the sale of the land, have lately transpired, which make it advisable that the said
 1630 1631 "Successful settlement meant peaceful settlement, but not many furrows would be turned in Waikato, if the ploughman must take his life in his hand into the field, and work with his rifle and cross-belts slung upon his shoulders. If any attempt at such wholesale confiscation as appears to be contemplated were made, the effect would be to increase the exasperation already existing in the Native mind, and it would need for its success the extermination of the race. The soundness of the financial policy of confiscation may be tested by a very simple calculation, the elements of which are at hand. We could determine, approximately at least, the cost of the work of extermination; we may be said to have been at war for three years; we have spent, including the Imperial charges, perhaps £5,000,000 during that period; we have killed 150 or 200 Natives. How much, at that rate, will it cost to kill 10,000? This policy of confiscation is immoral, and cannot be made profitable financially; unfortunately, it is a popular policy; but in that Council, when hon. Gentlemen were safe from the storms of the hustings, calm and dispassionate consideration might at least be expected to be given to such a subject as this. He had, however, ceased to hope for that at present, and when he remembered how, upon a recent occasion, when a question affecting the life, the liberty, and the property of the people was under consideration, the expression of honest indignation had been met, he could not expect that anything he could then say would arrest or alter the downward current of events. He (Dr. Pollen) had hopes, however, that the statesmen of England would stand between them and the Natives, and, if need be, prevent the wrong which might be inflicted under the powers which this Bill proposes to give. He had hopes, also, that the administration of the law would be better than the law itself; and that, in carrying it out, the gentlemen who were charged with a trust so important would forget that a particular course was popular, and would be guided only by the dictates of justice, good faith, and public honour." ex parte 1632 à l'outrance 1633
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  briefly replied, stating he had by no means altered his opinion as to the value of local self-government of the colonies, and that he did not cast any imputations on the governors, the peculiar difficulties in which they were placed being the excuse for the errors which they might have committed.
 MR. LAYARD : I am, Sir, quite unable to give a reply to the Question of the hon. Gentleman. It must depend on any arrangement that may be made at the Conference.
 MR. BUXTON  said, he rose to second the Motion. No one who had paid attention to the subject would think that his hon. Friend had exaggerated its importance. It was a matter of life and death to the great Maori race in New Zealand, and it was also one of great moment in a financial point. If the policy of confiscation was proceeded with, he thought his hon. Friend had under-estimated the pecuniary cost to this country. That cost would be at least £1,000,000 a year, and perhaps more. It was essential to keep in view the very words of the Treaty of Waitangi, which was the sole title by which we could lay claim to sovereignty over the Natives of New Zealand. The terms of the treaty were these—
 "The Queen of England confirms and guarantees to the chiefs and tribes of New Zealand, and to the respective families and individuals thereof, the full, extensive, and undisturbed possession of their lands, estates, forests, fisheries, and other properties which they may collectively and individually possess, so long as it is their wish and desire to retain the same in their possession." 1634 1635 rectè si possint, si non, quocunque modo 1636 1637 1638 1639 "The river of blood has not yet stopped. The missionaries behaved bravely, and so did I; but the flow of blood did not cease. I, therefore, sought for some plan to make it cease. I considered how this blood might be made to diminish in the island." 1640 "Not a cow, nor a pig, nor a horse, nor any kind of property, was taken from us; our houses, our furniture, and all goods which could not be removed, four months after the war had begun, were still remaining as we left them, untouched and unharmed." 1641
 MR. SELWYN  said, that the speech of
 1657 1658 1659
 MR. SELWYN  said, that the Standing Orders of the House had been so systematically and continuously evaded that they had been rendered ridiculous. Without mentioning names, he would read one of the documents referred to by the hon. Member, and if necessary he would place it in the hands of the Speaker or the officers of the House. It was an agreement entered into by the promoters of a company, and was to the following effect: —That, in consideration of certain other parties having advanced a deposit of £10,400 to the Accountant General of the Court of Chancery in the names of A, B, as the Parliamentary deposit of the Railway Company, the promoters undertook that, unless the amount was repaid before the Bill was read the third time in the House of Lords, they would withdraw the Bill and do all that was necessary to enable the parties who advanced the deposit to obtain its repayment. The solicitor of the company and the Parliamentary agent also entered into agreements, by which they undertook, in pursuance of instructions from the Board, that the Bill should not be read a third time in the House of Lords unless the sum deposited was previously paid or satisfactorily secured to the bank who advanced it. Therefore the orders of the House, which obliged the promoters to give a guarantee that they were in a position to carry their undertaking to a successful issue, resulted in their putting themselves entirely in the hands of other parties, who might be called the fourth estate of the realm, as they had the power to set aside the authority of Parliament; for although Committees of both Houses might have determined that the scheme was for the public advan-
 1621
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  observed, that he wished to add a few words to what had been stated by his right hon. Friend. It had been his lot to follow very closely the disturbances in New Zealand, and, notwithstanding what had been said by the hon. Baronet (Sir John Trelawny) that evening, he still adhered to the views which, on more than one occasion, he had stated to the House. At the same time he deplored as much as any man could the unfortunate transactions to which the hon. Baronet had alluded, and admitted that great misfortunes had followed from them; but Governor Browne was a man of the greatest humanity, and certainly was not
 1654 1655 1656
 MR. CARDWELL  replied that there would be no objection to lay the Report on the table. With regard to the other Question, that would depend on the view the Legislature of Tasmania might take on the matter and the regulations they might make.
 MR. CARDWELL , who was indistinctly heard, said—I have, of course, no objection to the Motion of my hon. Friend, which is one for papers on a subject of great interest and importance, on which I entirely agree with him that it is most desirable for the interest of the Natives of New Zealand that the British Parliament should be fully informed. My hon. Friend has done me the honour to refer to the part I took twenty years ago with regard to the Treaty of Waitangi, which is the origin of our possession of New Zealand and the
 1642 "At Mokau is the boundary of the land for our own selves. These are the lands which will not be given up by us to the hands of you and the Governor, lest we become like the birds of the sea which are resting on a rock. When the tide flows, that rock is covered by the sea. The birds fly away, because there is no resting place for them. 1643 rem si possis rectè, si non quocunque modo, rem 1644 1645 "A very serious state of things has arisen in the Northern Island of New Zealand, and there is great reason to apprehend that a general rising of the Native population may shortly take place, for the purpose of making a simultaneous attack upon the several centres of European population, with a view to the total expulsion of the white race from this island. I am quite satisfied that such a plot has been formed by a large number of influential Natives, as also that they are now busily engaged in trying to carry it into effect. I still hope that they will fail in conducting it on such a large scale as they propose, but I believe the danger to be of a very serious and alarming kind, which may lead to a vast destruction of life and property." "It has now been clearly proved that some of the chiefs of Waikato ordered the recent murders at Taranaki, and that, being thus responsible for them, they have determined to support the people who carried out the orders which they issued. For this purpose they are quite prepared to attack this populous district, and even to commit similar murders here. I have, however, arranged with the lieutenant general a plan of operations which will, I trust, not only effectually protect the Auckland district and its inhabitants from the dangers which threaten at this moment, but will also have the effect of placing this part of New Zealand in a state of permanent security." "The colony is in great danger, and no permanent peace can now be hoped for until the Waikato and the Taranaki tribes are completely subdued." 1646 "I can devise no other plan by which both of these ends can be obtained than—1st, by providing for the permanent peace of the country by locating large bodies of European settlers, strong enough to defend themselves, in those natural positions in this province which will give us the entire command of it; and 2ndly, by taking the land on which this European population is to be settled from those tribes who have been guilty of those outrages detailed in my various despatches. A punishment of this nature will deter other tribes from committing similar acts, while their own countrymen will generally admit that the punishment is a fair and just one, which the Waikato chiefs have well deserved." 1647 1648 1649 1650
 MR. CARDWELL : I stated that we have desired that a Bill should be immediately introduced into the Assembly of New Zealand for putting an end within a limited time to the whole powers of the Act.
 MR. CARDWELL : I am speaking upon a certain hypothesis which may not turn out true—namely, that the war is at an end before this time. The last accounts lead us to believe that the war in all probability is concluded by this time.
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether a portrait of Arch-
 1624
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he wished to point out that the practice referred to seriously affected owners and occupiers of property through which projected lines of railway were to pass. Notices were given to owners and occupiers in all directions, without the slightest real responsibility on the part of the promoters. He was not only of opinion that the responsibility of promoters of undertakings should in all cases be reliable, but that owners of property ought not to be called on to pay fees in defending their property against projectors.
 MR. PEASE  said, it would be out of place in him to follow the hon. Member for Stamford (Sir Stafford Northcote) into I the various questions he had raised. He had understood the hon. Baronet however to say, that the measure had originated with the Government. There was no doubt that it ought to have so originated; but, unfortunately, it had not done so, nor had it even received their approbation. It was stated that harbours of refuge were essentially necessary in the case of any war in which we might be engaged. Why, then, were they not put upon the same footing as the fortifications, and why was not the money provided in the same way? But the House ought not to consider that as purely a money question. Where the incidence of taxation fell was immaterial. The nation would get a valuable return for its expenditure. Every year our able-bodied seamen were being lost by the score. We were losing in money value at the rate of more than a million per annum. And the President of the Board of Trade, before he frittered away these facts, ought to remember the duty which we owed to the poor fellows who manned our ships, and the great loss both of life and money which now took place for the want of these harbours.
 MR. BLAKE  felt bound to say something in support of the Motion of the hon. Member for Sunderland, from the circumstance of residing near one of the proposed harbours of refuge, and having personal knowledge of the advantages which would result to the shipping interest from its formation. He had some reluctance, however, in doing so, fearing it might be supposed that he was advocating the matter for the interests of his constituents. He could say, with truth, the advantages they would derive would not be very much, as Waterford harbour was deep enough for their purposes. He quite concurred with his hon. Friend in taking exception to many portions of the document lately issued by the Board of Trade, with a view of showing that the construction of the refuges recommended by the Royal Commission would not be as useful as was supposed. At page 12 the following passage occurred:—
 "There is no doubt whatever that the greater portion of the vessels lost are coasters of small value, and comparatively ill found." "That it is not generally the good and well found ships which are lost for want of harbours of refuge." 1675 Columbus Racer Pomona the Adriatic Tiger Angelina 1676 Warrior Prince Consort 1677
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, that he had never heard anyone deal more lightly and pleasantly with tales of disaster and distress than had the President of the Board
 1697
 MR. ROGERS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether, in case of the discovery of a Goldfield in Tasmania, the Grant Licences for procuring Gold will be regulated in the same way as has heretofore been done in the other Australian Colonies; and whether there is any objection to printing the Report of Mr. Gould, the Government Geologist, which is referred to in the last Report of the Governor of Tasmania, of August 21, 1862, p. 77?
 MR. SOMES  was understood to mention the case of a wrecked vessel, which would have been saved had one of the harbours of refuge recommended by the Committees been constructed. He had a suspicion that the Return of wrecks and casualties for 1862 had undergone some manipulation.
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  said, that the state of New Zealand might well cause anxiety, for, in his opinion, if we were at war with the United States, the first thing the American Government would do would be to send a force to New Zealand and raise a rebellion there. He did not think the way in which Governor Browne had been spoken of that night was altogether just. The seizure of the Waitara block had been defended at the time by the Government, though now Governor Browne's policy had been rescinded. But Governor Browne had been entirely whitewashed by the Government, and he could not, therefore, absolve the Government from responsibility for the bloodshed and the expenditure which had taken place in New Zealand. As to the suggested guarantee, he considered that a solemn and serious matter. He had protested against that which was granted for £500,000, and in the Committee which had sat upon the subject several Members were completely deceived by the plausible statements which were then offered in evidence by persons who had come from New Zealand to obtain the guarantee. A Return for which he had moved on the subject would show that clearly, and he would now ask the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Henley) how he came to be so easily led into inducing the House to give a guarantee upon evidence which turned out to be untrue.
 MR. RICHARD HODGSON  said, he did not oppose the Motion, but he would suggest that something should be done to facilitate the withdrawal of the deposits from the office of the Accountant General in Chancery, and also to lessen the expenses attending it.
 MR. RICHARD HODGSON  said, he rose to move that certain clauses relative to companies entering into traffic agreements, and to companies owning or working railways and steamboats, be referred to the general Committee on Railway and Canal Bills, with an Instruction to the Committee that they Report to the House their opinion whether the said Clauses, with such Amendments as may be proposed by the Committee, may with advantage be inserted in all Bills con-
 1622 1623
 MR. RICHARD HODGSON  said, he rose to ask the hon. Baronet (Sir S. Northcote) not to press his Motion to a division. It was desirable that the House should vote upon the main Question, whether or not the Government should carry out, by such measures as they thought fit to adopt, the recommendations of the Committee or the Commission. He regretted to find the principle of passing tolls supported by the hon. Baronet, for that system had been discarded by the Government and the Legislature, and would, he hoped, never be renewed. The taxpayers at large were not asked solely to provide these harbours, for a large proportion of the cost was to come out of the pockets of the shipowners and merchants at the ports at which the expenditure was to take place. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had himself been a witness to the improvements car-
 1678
 MR. T. J. MILLER  said, he should
 1699
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the right hon. Baronet who had just sat down had informed the House that the Resolution which they were invited to consider was perfectly clear, and that he thought there was no one in the House who did not understand its meaning. [Sir JOHN PAKINGTON: The object of the hon. Member.] He thought the right hon. Baronet had said the "Motion," because he had said distinctly that he understood what the meaning of the Motion was. But the hon. Baronet the Member for Stamford had said he thought the Resolution was vague and uncertain, and that therefore it ought not to be supported, because hon. Gentlemen supporting it would not know for what they were voting. He (Mr. M. Gibson) agreed with the hon. Member for Stamford. And unless they were to be indifferent to the wording of their Resolutions—unless they were to be contented with transacting their business in a slipslop manner, and to vote for any form of words which it might please any particular Member to submit if they guessed the object — they were called upon to look carefully to the meaning and wording of any Motions that were submitted for their approval. The right hon. Baronet (Sir John Pakington) strongly relied on the fact, that a Resolution was passed by the House in 1860, on the Motion of the hon. Member for Sunderland, calling on the Government to carry into effect the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Harbours
 1683 "That in the opinion of this House it is the duty of Her Majesty's Government to adopt measures to carry into effect the Resolution of the House passed on the 19th of June, 1860, in regard to harbours of refuge." 1684 sine quâ non 1685 1686 1687 Royal Charter 1688 Sarah Saratoga Duke of Buccleugh Robert and Margaret Fidelity 1689 1690 1691 1692 1693
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he thought it rather an unusual course to refer these clauses to the consideration of the general Committee on Railway and Canal Bills. It would certainly be better in matters of the kind that a Bill should be brought in containing the various clauses it was thought desirable to introduce in certain clauses of private Bills; but, although that was also the opinion of his hon. Friend the Chairman of Ways and Means, he did not wish to object to the course taken by his hon. Friend. Three or four of the Regulations were inserted in the Railway Clauses Bill, which passed last Session, and there was no objection to refer the whole of them to a body so well qualified to consider the subject, as the general Committee on Railway and Canal Bills.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he had no objection to offer to the Motion.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that the portrait of Archbishop Laud referred to had been purchased by the Trustees of the National Portrait Gallery for the sum of 72 guineas. It had not been purchased upon the ground of its being ascribed to Vandyke. There were two views taken of that question by gentlemen who were most competent to form a judgment—one view being that it was an original picture of the school of Vandyke, and the other that it was a copy of an original by Vandyke. The Trustees, however, were not ashamed of their purchase, as they believed it to be a valuable picture which had been obtained at a cheap rate. There was some difference of opinion as to what would be the value of the picture if it were an original Vandyke, some excellent authorities putting it at £1,000, while no estimate was under £300. With respect to the removal of the National Portrait Gallery, he had at present no announcement to make; but the Government would declare their intentions at or before the time when they invited the attention of the House to the subject of buildings and the arrangements connected with buildings of that class contained in the Miscellaneous Estimates.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that as the Amendment of his hon. Friend the Member for Stamford was about to be put, he wished to explain the vote which the Government would feel it their duty to give. They concurred very much in what had fallen from his hon. Friend and the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire, to the effect that
 1698
 MR. BAXTER  said, that seeing the pressure brought to bear upon the Government, he felt it his duty, on behalf of the taxpayers of the country, to state his views upon this question. He was surprised to find that his hon. Friend asked the House to commit themselves to the recommendations both of the Committee and of the Commission, for, as the hon. Baronet had pointed out, these recommendations were not consistent with each other, The constitutional question was also one of high importance, for instead of the House of Commons checking the Government they had been initiating expenditure, and forcing it upon the Government against their wishes. As to the cost of the proposed works, he doubted whether it was possible to carry them out at anything like the sums estimated. His hon. Friend said the Commission had examined gentlemen of experience on the point, but in speaking of the Tyne, the Report itself said that the magnitude of the works contemplated there, and their novel character, rendered them to a great extent experimental. So that the Commissioners admitted the uncertainty of the outlay in that instance. In noticing the construction of the Committee, the hon. Baronet had omitted to state that it was composed chiefly of representatives of counties interested in the expenditure of the public money. In the Report of the Committee the expenditure at Carlingford and Waterford was set down at £20,000 each; but the Royal Commission contemplated an expenditure of £75,000 at Carlingford and £50,000 at Waterford, so that the House was preparing to legislate in the dark without knowing what the real cost of these works would be. The experience of Holyhead, where the original estimate had been greatly exceeded, might be a guide to them on the point. The works at Portland were estimated to cost £584,000, but £896,000 had already been expended on them, and the estimate now before the House was £932,000. The truth was that if the House began the proposed expenditure of £4,000,000 or £5,000,000, they might be thankful if they got off for less than £10,000,000. He objected altogether to some of the recommendations
 1679
 MR. CAIRD  said, he thought the Government ought to have dealt with the subject, in pursuance of the Report of the Committee of 1862. But if the noble Lord succeeded in his object he would perform a good work.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, the blue-book from which the right hon. Gentleman had quoted was not circulated amongst Members of the House; it was a paper prepared in the office of the right hon. Gentleman. He had quoted from it partially. He found on reference to it that, out of twenty-nine shipwrecks, twenty-two would have been saved by harbours of refuge. In the next page he found that, out of twenty-six cases of shipwreck, nineteen might have been saved by harbours of refuge. With reference to that point, from his knowledge of groping in the Channel, there was no place where a harbour of refuge was so much required as at Start Point.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he hoped it would be understood that in assenting to this course being adopted, the House did not express any opinion as to the clauses themselves.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he could not allow the discussion to close without expressing his satisfaction, both to the Colonial Secretary, for his clear and able statement, and to his hon. Friend (Mr. A. Mills), for having raised the Question. The recent events in New Zealand were the firstfruits of the change of policy by which the Local Legislature had been enabled to deal with the affairs of the Natives. In the Constitution Act of New Zealand, Native affairs were reserved for the Home Government; and it was impossible not to feel some anxiety as to the transference of those affairs to the colony, when they found that it had led to the passing of Acts of so doubtful a character as those they were now discussing. He was rather disposed to agree with his noble Friend (Lord R. Cecil), who expressed his regret that Her Majesty's Government did not propose to disallow these acts, though he was bound to admit that the fact of the Governor not having reserved them for consideration had much increased the difficulty of taking that course. The whole state of affairs in New Zealand was embarrassing and difficult, and if these acts of confiscation were to be carried out to their full extent, the difficulties of the Government would be greatly increased. He had, however, every reason to trust in the wisdom and moderation of Sir George Grey, and hoped that the agreeable prospects held out by the right hon. Gentleman opposite would be realized.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he hoped the House would not accept the advice of the hon. Member for Montrose, who, indeed, could hardly expect them to be influenced by the opinion he had expressed in opposition to the weight of evidence in favour of the Motion of the hon. Member for Sunderland. The terms of the Resolution had been criticized rather severely, but whether they were open to criticism or not, he did not believe there was a man in the House who did not perfectly understand what the hon. Member for Sunderland meant. He thought the hon. Member was entitled to great credit for the perseverance with which he had followed up the question from Session to Session. The present state of the question did not reflect honour either upon the Government or upon the House. If the Government agreed with the hon. Member for Montrose—if they rejected all the evidence that had been collected—if they thought harbours of refuge were valueless and not worth the cost, let them frankly say so, and the House would un-
 1680 1681 Pomona Royal Charter 1682
 SIR JOSEPH PAXTON  said, he did not consider that any good could arise from the Committee. Already a Committee had sat on the subject, and had produced a large blue-book which no one had read. He thought it would be better to leave the matter in the hands of the Metropolitan Board of Works and the authorities of the different towns throughout the country.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he would detain the House only a very few minutes in explaining the Amendment he had put on the paper to the Motion of the lion. Member for Sunderland; and he must claim their indulgence for the few remarks he should make, because he felt he rose at a great disadvantage after a speech so full of feeling and knowledge as that with which the hon. Gentleman had just favoured the House. He could not possibly attempt to put anything he might have to say in comparison with what fell from the hon. Member, for, on the one hand, he had not the advantage of being able to speak with authority on the subject, and, on the other hand, he could not appeal to the feelings of the House, because he was there to plead the cause of the British taxpayer, who certainly did not excite the same feelings as our brave British sailors were so justly entitled to raise. But he thought it well for the House to consider, before they came to a vote on the question, what their real position was in regard to it. They ought to consider whether a constitutional question was not involved in the course which had been taken, and which it was now proposed they should take with regard to the matter. The proceedings which the House had taken of late years with regard to harbours of refuge should not be forgotten. For a good number of years (probably for twenty or twenty-five years) the question had engaged public interest, There had been discussions as to the mode in which they could provide against the dangers of wreck, and various plans for the establishment of harbours of refuge had been from time to time considered, until at length in 1857 a very remarkable and unusual course was taken by the Government of the day in moving for a Select Committee of that House to consider the question of the policy of making public grants towards harbours of refuge. That Committee was appointed not on the Motion of any private Member on either side of the House; but it was actually originated by a Member of the Government, and by a Member peculiarly interested in looking after expenditure. It was not proposed by the Admiralty or Board of Trade, but by the Secretary of the Treasury. Mr. Wilson, representing the former Government of the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston), proposed, in order to solve the difficult question they had to consider, that a Select
 1670 1671 "The conclusion at which your Committee has arrived, therefore, is that a charge not exceeding in any case 1 d 1672 "That, in the opinion of that House, Her Majesty's Government should now adopt measures for the construction of harbours of refuge on the
 1673 1674
 MR. CAVE , in seconding the Motion, declared his opinion that the hon. Member for Sunderland (Mr. Lindsay), and the gallant Officer the Member for Chatham (Sir Frederic Smith), deserved great credit for the perseverance with which they had kept this Question before the House. The Reports of the Committee and the Commission both appeared to have been strangely ignored and neglected; but as the representative of a commercial port, the vessels belonging to which were constantly braving the perils so well described by his hon. Friend, and too many swelling the wreck chart to which he had alluded, he felt that the importance of the subject before them could not be overrated. He differed also from the Board of Trade Report quoted by his hon. Friend, not only in the points he had mentioned, but in those which stated that these harbours of refuge would be of such pecuniary advantage to shipowners that they ought to be paid for by passing tolls. Shipowners were generally covered by insurance, charged practically on freight, and it was doubtful whether the premiums would be affected by the formation of harbours. Underwriters and consignees might possibly be to some extent interested, if it were true that property to the extent of
 1667 "In 1799 a three days' gale from the S.E. drove from their moorings in the Downs and Yarmouth Roads, and from their southward courses, a large fleet of vessels. Borne north by the gale, these ships might easily have reached the anchorage of the Frith of Firth, for which the wind was fair, but night came on, and fearing the Bell Rock, these ill-feted navigators resolved to keep to sea and thus escape its dangers, but driven before the storm they were wrecked, about seventy, on the eastern shores of Scotland, where, sad to tell, many of their crews perished." 1668 Diruit, ædificat, mutat quadrata rotundis "On reference to the Report of the Committee on Harbours of Refuge made at the close of last Session, it will be observed how numerous and pressing are the calls for different works on our coasts, varying from £800,000 to £20,000 in estimated value. It will be quite evident, then, how convenient would be the application of special convict labour for these purposes, provided it could be economically located on the site of the works by means of moveable iron buildings. Those used in Ireland for this purpose accommodate fifty men and three officers in each at a cost of about £330. The fifty men are in association like soldiers in a barrack. Cellular accommodation would much increase the expenditure, and is not to be desired. With prisoners whose merit and industrial exertion during detention have placed them in the intermediate stage before release, this system has been found reformatory and economical, the association operating as a further test by which we may induce the public to employ the criminal. If we cannot control them in association after our long course of discipline and training, we cannot expect the community will have much confidence in their future well doing. It is by the use of economically constructed moveable buildings that the labour of convicts can be made of greater utility to the State."
 MR. NEWDEGATE* : Mr. Speaker—Before proceeding to move the second reading of this Bill, perhaps I may be allowed to say a few words with regard to the point of order which has been raised by the hon. Member for Sheffield. I beg; to state, that I have acted entirely in deference to your authority, Sir, in reference
 1702 1703 1704 d 1705 1706 1707 1708 "But his hon. Friend had not stated in how many instances opposition had been put down for a time in order to be renewed at a future opportunity, should no proposition be brought forward by the executive and submitted to Parliament for the relief of Dissenters, and all parties upon whom that burden might unjustly press. His hon. Friend forgot to tell them how many hundred parishes there were waiting to follow the example of those which had successfully resisted, should the decision of the Legislature give them no hope of relief." 1709 "That the principle of assessing the owner instead of the occupier to the church rate, is well deserving the serious consideration of Parliament in any future legislation on this subject." 1710 1711 1712 "Remarks preliminary to the Return of church rates," ordered to be printed February 3, 1859:— "The question under the head of 'amount rated to the relief of the poor' has in very many cases been incorrectly answered, the amount of the rating or poundage being given instead of the rateable value of property upon which assessment is made. From a Return made to Parliament in 1852 (No. 539) it appears that the total amount rated to the poor rates in England and Wales was £67,700,153 13 s d 1713
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he thought it would be wise on the part of the hon. Baronet opposite not to press his Bill at the present moment, and that it would be better that they should first dispose of the measure introduced by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. As a Member for Scotland, he must express his surprise at the attack which had been made on the Scotch system of banking—though he thought that the speech of the hon. Member had, in a great measure, answered itself; for he had admitted that the amount of deposits in the Scotch banks had increased from £30,000,000 to £60,000,000 since the passing of the Act of 1845. In point of fact, at that moment, there was hardly a Highland village that had not adequate banking accommodation. It could hardly be called a monopoly when all these banking agencies were in competition with each other. In his opinion the existing system gave ample banking accommodation to the people of Scotland; and he believed that the Scotch people themselves were exceedingly attached to the system as it at present existed. He greatly doubted the policy of the present Bill, and
 1750
 SIR CHARLES DOUGLAS  thought that the reasons which he should give in favour of reading the Bill that day six months would receive the support of a large majority of the House. With the highest respect for the ability and honesty of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire, he believed that the opinion of the majority was that the best course to be taken at present was to decline dealing with the question in the present Parliament. Those who supported the abolition of church rates might regret the position in which the question had been placed, but they were prepared to accept the situation. For his own part, he deeply regretted that position, for it was certain to be warmly discussed with the violence of party spirit upon the hustings in the country at the next general election, and it would be far better if it could have been settled before that election took place. Giving the hon. Member for North Warwickshire all credit for consistency, and an earnest desire to carry out what he believed to be a measure of relief, it was to be regretted that it was not in the power of the Members on that side of the House to accept any such measure as that now proposed. He believed it was the wish of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire—as it certainly was his own—that perfect freedom should be given to Dissenters; and it was manifest that so long as the question was discussed without the introduction of party feeling, and while reason alone was brought to bear upon it, the chance of a settlement was becoming more and more probable, as the majorities in favour of the abolition of church rates were continually increasing; and it was only when the influence of party was brought to bear on the opposite side, which could not on this, that those majorities ceased. The leader of the party opposite had stated that if the House could be brought to rescind the Resolution in favour of abolition, he hoped to find the means of obtaining a final and satisfactory settlement of the question. Unfortunately it had not been possible to form a Government which was
 1716
 VISCOUNT ENFIELD  seconded the Amendment.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he was sure that the House could not but be sensible of the pains and unwearied assiduity bestowed on the Bill by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire: but it seemed to him that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down seemed to be a kind of Parliamentary Rip Van Winkle, who had
 1723 1724
 MR. O'REILLY  objected to the Bill, which not only introduced a new class of offences, but imposed a high and excessive standard of penalties. It was his intention to oppose the Bill at every stage.
 MR. BLACK : Sir, I wish to say that, after the discussion which has now taken place, in the event of the hon. Member opposite (Sir John Hay) being desirous of withdrawing his proposal, I shall not press the Amendment which I have moved.
 MR. BLACK : Sir, this Bill is certainly rather remarkable. For two reasons it is remarkable—first, for what it says; and secondly, for what it does not say. By this measure we are told that the Act of the 8 & 9  Vict 1729 1730 1731 1732
 MR. DUNLOP  said, he had heard with much gratification the disavowal by the Chancellor of the Exchequer of any feeling of general hostility to the principle of the Bill, as well as his admission that Scotland stands in a peculiar position in consequence of the peculiar prejudices which in Scotland make the right of issuing notes essential to the establishment of a bank. When his hon. Friend the Member for Edinburgh (Mr. Black) talked of 800 banks, he ought to have said 800 offices, for the number of banks did not exceed thirteen in the whole country; and so long as the right of issue is confined to those banks, there must be a practical prohibition upon the establishment of any new bank. It was, in fact, a monopoly enjoyed by the bank of which the hon. Member was a governor, and a dozen others, of
 1744
 MR. FINLAY : As my name appears on the back of this Bill, perhaps I may be allowed to state my reasons for supporting the second reading. I do not approve of all the details of the Bill; I merely approve of its principle, which I consider is the establishment of free competition in banking. In Scotland the existing banks have an exclusive privilege of issue. I do not say that those banks have used that exclusive privilege oppressively. They did not ask for that privilege — it was forced upon them—and, upon the whole, they have used it fairly. But still it is found by experience that exclusive privileges of any kind are contrary to the interests of the public. My hon. Friend the Member for Edinburgh (Mr. Black) states that there is plenty of free trade in banking. But let me remind him that, until all banks are placed on an equal footing, there can be no such thing as free competition. If one bank has a privilege over another it necessarily has an advantage over that bank to the extent of that privilege. If he desires to place the whole of them on the same level he must give to all the right of issuing notes, or else enact that none of them shall have that right. In either case the result is the same, they would be on the same footing. If Parliament gives to none of them the privilege of issuing notes, then they must return to a metallic currency, or have notes issued by the State. There are insuperable objections, as every practical man knows, to a return to a metallic currency, not only on account of the expense, but also on account of the impossibility of at all times procuring the necessary coin to meet the exigencies of trade. It is hardly necessary, therefore, to say anything upon that subject, because I imagine no one in this House will advocate the adoption of a system of pure metallic currency. I am aware that the plan of having notes issued by the State is popular with some persons; but the more one considers the subject, the more insuperable do the obstacles to the working out of that principle appear.
 1734 "Let us not deceive ourselves into a belief that our free Government would afford us any protection whatever about the probable abuse of such a power.… I venture to suggest that a free Government might furnish the most active and dangerous agency for forcing on the Treasury to rash and fatal resolves if it should unadvisedly undertake the functions of a bank of issue. I believe a Government in such a position would be driven onward to the very measure which wisdom and experience would most strongly deprecate and condemn." "The principle of competition, though unsafe in our opinion when applied to issue, ought, we think, to govern the business of banking." 1735 "The Committee are unwilling, without stronger proof of necessity, to incur the risk of deranging from any cause whatever a system admirably calculated in their opinion to economise the use of capital, to create and cherish a spirit of useful enterprise, and even to promote the moral habits of the people by the direct inducements which it holds out to the maintenance of a character for industry, integrity, and prudence." "During the civil commotion of the last century, in the rebellion of 1715 and 1745, the confidence in paper securities in Scotland was not shaken. The Scotch banks maintained their stability, and were not called upon for any extraordinary issue of gold in exchange for their notes during the shocks to which mercantile credit was exposed in this country in the years 1793, 1797, and, more recently, in 1825. It cannot be assumed, therefore, that a circulation of specie is necessary in Scotland for the purpose of guarding against the effects of sudden panic.…So far as the interests of the Bank of England are concerned, it will be seen that the directors of that Bank, who were examined before your Committee, urge no objection to the continuance of the present system in Scotland, provided that the paper circulation in Scotland can be effectually retained within the limits of that country." "The security of the system which prevails in Scotland rests in the amount of gold in England, and it is this which enables Scotland to dispense with the amount of bullion in proportion to its circulation, which, and not the solvency of the banks, ought to be the foundation of the promissory notes. I am not surprised that Scotland should wish to be exempt from this—I am not surprised that Ireland should wish the same; and I do not say that it may not be possible, by taking the whole expense of maintaining a gold currency upon this part of the empire, that another system may not succeed in other parts; but I do say that it is just that the burden should be borne in equal proportions by all parts of the empire."— [3  Hansard 1736 1737 "Do you think the existence of a paper currency in Scotland at the time there was a gold currency in England might lead to any inconvenient demand upon the Bank of England for gold for Scotland." "Scotland could not reach the gold of the Bank of England by getting possession of the paper of the Bank of England. She could only do that by discounting bills through her agents in London, or by the sale of stock or any public securities that she might hold; but, by her own paper, she could not touch us." 1738
 MR. NEWDEGATE : From the person to the property.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that his right hon. Friend (Sir George Grey) was engaged in an important Committee which was sitting upstairs on a question which concerned the constitution of the House, and therefore there was no dereliction of public duty on his part in not being present in the House on the present occasion. He entirely concurred in every encomium that had been bestowed upon the trouble which the hon. Member who had brought in the Bill had taken in reference to the question of church rates; but with regard to the Bill itself he could not agree with it. He believed it to be open to the objection which was urged against a similar measure last Session by his right hon. Friend the Secretary for the Home Department — namely, that it would be ineffectual in attaining a settlement of the question. He was fully persuaded that it would be better if they did not pursue the discussion on the subject during the present Parliament, or, at all events, during the present Session. It was a subject which the country ought fully to consider, and it would, no doubt, as the hon. Gentleman had said, be dwelt upon at the hustings. He thought the wisest course was to avoid the use of irritating language on the subject, and that the hon. Gentleman would do well to adopt the suggestion of the noble Lord.
 LORD FERMOY : That was the same thing in other words, and the result was, the landlord would put the charge on the tenant in the shape of rent, and the tenant would still have to pay to support a Church in which he did not believe. The hon. Member for North Warwickshire said it was a lay question—then let them settle it on the principle of lay justice, and not refuse to let the members of the Established Church bear the onus of supporting their own Church. There was no principle of reason or of justice on which they could call on a man to support a religion which he did not believe; and if the members of the Established Church were in the majority, why did they fear to leave them to support their own church? He believed that, under the voluntary principle, the Church would be better supported, and he moreover believed that those were its enemies who endeavoured to force on Dissenters these church rates. There had been no compromise proposed by the other side. The fact that there was but one solution to the difficulty, and that was by abolishing church rates altogether and relying upon the voluntary system, by which already so many new churches had been built and endowed. This was the only step that would allay agitation in the country, and would make people better friends and better neighbours, and establish the Church on a more solid and a safer foundation.
 LORD FERMOY  said, he could see nothing in the Bill which would give him
 1720
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, that the value of money could not be fixed by Act of Parliament, any more than the value of any other commodity. The Act of 1844 had conferred great benefits on the country, and the occasions on which it was supposed by some persons to have broken down were scarcely cases in point. It was not at the instance of the Bank of England that the Act had been suspended, but at the instance of the public, who demanded greater accommodation than the law allowed the Bank to give. He hoped that in any legislative alteration the great principle of the Act of 1844 would be upheld.
 MR. HADFIELD  begged to call the attention of the House to a violation of its Standing Orders by the manner in which this Bill had been introduced and was now proceeded with. By those Girders no Bill imposing any charge upon the people could be introduced until the House, in a Committee of the Whole House, had passed a Resolution, on which the Bill, imposing the tax was founded. That was a very salutary regulation and was designed for the protection of Her Majesty's subjects: but in the case of this Bill it had not been observed. The Bill was introduced on the 9th of February—or rather at one o'clock on the morning of the 10th—without the preliminary formality of a Committee of the Whole House: and from the Reports of the proceedings in the ordinary channels, there did not appear to have been any observations made, and, therefore, it came upon the House by surprise. The clauses of the Bill were remarkably extensive. They affected all owners of real property in England, and he was not sure whether they would not extend to Ireland. These clauses provided that church rates in respect of occupation should cease, and that all real property should be subject to an annual charge of 2 d 1701
 MR. H. BAILLIE : Sir I agree with the hon. Member for Perth (Mr. Kinnaird), that it would be an absurdity to call the banking system of Scotland a monopoly, for although banks for issuing paper are restricted, all of them have large establishments with branches in almost every village in Scotland. There is scarcely a village in Scotland with a thousand inhabitants that has not a branch bank. At present there was no limitation to the establishment of banks in Scotland, except this—that it must be on the express understanding that they have no permission to issue paper. The Bill of my hon. Friend, if I rightly understand it, proposes to repeal the Bank Act of 1845, and establish virtually an unlimited paper currency in Scotland. It is true that the banks to be established could only issue paper upon retaining the same amount of gold in their coffers; but this is not affording to the public any security for the value of the notes. Suppose a bank is established which issues notes to the value of £100,000, and that it retains 100,000 sovereigns as reserve — that I take to be the proposal of my hon. and gallant Friend — but the 100,000 sovereigns would be no security for the notes, because the bank might have £1,000,000 of deposits, and if there should be a run on the bank the depositors would get
 1751
 MR. CRUM-EWING  addressed the House, but the hon. Member was very imperfectly heard.
 MR. BUTT  said, it was impossible to conceive a Bill framed in a more oppressive spirit than the measure now under consideration. Whilst in England the magistrates had the power of mitigating the penalty, in Ireland the magistrates would be obliged to impose a penalty of £1, and if the penalty should not be paid the offender must be committed for two months.
 MR. M'CANN  contended that the hon. and learned Gentleman was misleading the Committee by stating that that was the sole object of the Bill. The fact was that it was nothing more nor less than a proposal to introduce into Ireland the English Game Law.
 MR. BAGWELL  said, he hoped the House would not sanction any extension of the Game Laws in Ireland, and that was the object of this Bill. He was quite sure an attempt to do such a thing in England at the fag end of a Wednesday sitting would cause a revolution. ["Hear!"] It was all very well for hon. Members to laugh, but less things had caused a revolution. He was opposed to the Bill, and so convinced was he that it was radically wrong, that he moved that the Chairman leave the chair.
 MR. SPEAKER : The rule of the House is this — that Bills which directly impose-a State charge upon the people must originate in a Committee of the Whole House But the rule has been held not to apply to Bills authorizing the levy of rates or charges for local purposes by local authorities. The question is under which head should this Bill for the commutation of church rates be classed. In my opinion it would be most in accordance with the spirit of the general rule of the House, and with the course of precedents, that it should be placed in the second class. The hon. Member urges that by the 15th clause a new tax is imposed on the owners of property to which they have not been: hitherto liable. But so in the Tithe Commutation Act, the 6 & 7  Will Geo d
 MR. LOCKE  said, the hon. Member asked why did not the Government come forward with a Bill? Well, why not? There was only one way of settling that matter; and the country had come to the conclusion to which the House must also come, that that only way was by the abolition of church rates. Some Members of the Government might have a misgiving as to the desirability of that course, and therefore as a Government they did not bring forward a measure for the purpose. But the matter had been discussed over and over again, all compromises had been met by a negative, and there was but one solution of the difficulty. If the hon. Gentleman who had introduced this Bill did not represent North Warwickshire he should have thought that he had framed his Bill on an Irish Bill introduced the other day with reference to the Game Laws, which transferred the privilege—or the burden, whichever it was—of prosecuting poachers, from the tenant to the landowner. The present Bill amounted to this, that instead of the occupier paying church rates, the landlord should pay them, without reference to whether he belonged to the Church of England or was a Dissenter, and the landlord would of course put the church rate on to the rent of the occupier. Then what the better would he be for the compromise? He said he did not like to pay a rate for the sup-
 1722
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he could see no reason why the law in Ireland should be changed in the manner proposed by this Bill. Reading daily in the papers the
 1755
 MR. KIRKMAN HODGSON  said, that the principles of the Act of 1844 were correct, and ought to be made permanent. It had effected all that it was intended to effect—the convertibility of the bank note; and if it had not averted panics it was not intended for that purpose, which, indeed, was beyond the reach of legislation. The time was not fur distant when the restrictions and privileges conferred by the Acts of 1844–5 would have to be re-considered; and when the time did come, he was of opinion that the English question ought, following the precedent of 1844, to precede the Scotch question. As to the Bill now before the House, if the hon. Baronet the Member for Wakefield persisted in his Motion, he should feel obliged to vote for the Amendment of the hon. Member for Edinburgh; but he hoped the hon. Baronet would consent to withdraw his Motion, and that the hon. Member for Edinburgh would also withdraw his Amendment, upon the understanding that the consideration of the question is only deferred for consideration and settlement, and that
 1747
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL  said, he had to bring under the notice of the Committee what appeared to him to be a breach of privilege. It would be in the recollection of hon. Members that during the discussion on the second reading of this Bill he stated that in Ireland the Sub-Inspector of police was sometimes a poacher. That statement had given great offence to the Irish police, and a violent and abusive article directed against him had appeared in a Dublin newspaper. The editor of that newspaper had also admitted into its columns a letter signed "Sub-Inspector," in which it was stated he (Captain Archdall) had sheltered himself under his privileges as a Member of Parliament, and stated what was a gross calumny and an unfounded slander, and what he would not have dared to utter out of that House. The Irish Members generally were included in the charge made by "Sub-Inspector;" for the letter stated that there was not one of them who would get up and defend the constabulary against the calumny. Now, when he made his former statement he did so on circumstances which were within his own personal knowledge, and also with the conviction that he could be corroborated by other hon. Members. A Sub-Inspector, quartered in a village on his own property, had made raids on his shooting ground. He was annoyed at this conduct, and remonstrated with the gentleman; but he neither summoned him before the magistrates nor reported him to the Inspector General, fearing that his dismissal from the force would be the result if he adopted the latter course. He, however, found that he had been mistaken in that supposition; for by the code of instructions issued to the police by Sir Henry Brownrigg, the Inspector General, he perceived that the Sub-Inspectors were allowed to shoot, fish, and hunt. The hon. Member for Galway (Mr. Gregory) some time ago invited a party of friends to shoot over his
 1753
 MR. R. P. LONG  said, he was astonished to hear the noble Lord say that no compromise had been offered on this question. Did the noble Lord forget that, when Lord Derby was in office, the right hon. Member for Cambridge University proposed a Bill that was a compromise? He did not say a word as to the merits of that Bill, but he ventured to remind the noble Lord that that measure was brought forward as a compromise by the right hon. Gentleman, who in that Government occupied a position which was much more creditably filled
 1721
 MR. DALGLISH  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, that the Bill did not deserve the sweeping reprobation of the hon. Member for Clonmel. It proposed to do nothing more in Ireland than what had been done for the last forty years in this country. The simple object of the Bill was to enable the landlord in whom the property in the game on his estate was vested to prosecute in case of trespass, instead of throwing that duty on the occupying tenant.
 MR. SALT  said, he would vote for the second reading of the Bill, because he was favourable to any reasonable attempt to settle this difficult question; but was not prepared to say that he should support the Bill in its future stages. The Bill proposed to introduce two material alterations in the law respecting church rates. In the first place, it proposed to remove the liability from the parishioners to the landowners. Whatever difficulties might exist, still from time immemorial the general character of the law was that of a law to compel parishioners to perform their duty of repairing the Church, and he should feel some hesitation in supporting any prin-
 1717 1718 1719
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, in answer to the appeal which has been made to me by my hon. Friend (Mr. Finlay), I am bound to say that I cannot respond to it in a favourable manner, if it implies that I shall vote for the present reading of this Bill. On the contrary, I intend to support the Motion made by my hon. Friend the hon. Member for Edinburgh. The grounds upon which I shall give that vote are not grounds connected with inveterate hostility to the principle upon which the measure rests; on the contrary, I think that the principle of the extension of issues against gold is one that, under favourable circumstances, I might fairly form the subject of consideration by Parliament. I think the hon. Baronet (Sir John Hay) who has brought in this Bill is entitled to claim certain admission at our hands. It is not  primâ facie 1739 argumentum ad hominem 1740 1741 1742 à fortiori 1743 status quo
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The understanding of the hon. Baronet is rather large. That I will very soon introduce a Bill is more than I can undertake; and I do not think that the remarks I made justify the hon. Gentleman in placing that construction upon my language. What I said was that the whole question requires careful consideration with a view of introducing Amendments into the present system, and that
 1752
 MR. BUCHANAN : Sir, as I represent a large commercial constituency, I must say that I have heard with some pleasure the statement of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to the effect that he is prepared, on a future occasion, to take the whole question into consideration. I can assure the right hon. Gentleman that the opinions entertained by very many persons of the operation of the Act of 1844 are very different from those expressed by hon. Members who have addressed the House this evening. Sir Robert Peel when he introduced his Bill said, that his purpose was to give something like stability and certainty to the value of money; and I put it to the right hon. Gentleman whether that has been the result produced? Are we not at the present time exposed to perpetual vacillations in the value of money? I will not, however, enter into that question. Various and conflicting opinions as to how any Bill, which the right hon. Gentleman might introduce, would work, would no doubt be entertained. I am anxious to learn whether there would be a probability of our having a Report from any Committee to whom that Bill might be referred in a moderate space of time, and also whether that Report would likely be of such a nature as to satisfy the House. I cannot, for my part, see why we should defer legislation upon this question for an indefinite period, and I wish to remind the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that the main grievance of which we complain has not yet been brought forward. Issue and deposit banks are mixed up together, not only in the minds of the Scotch people, but as a consequence of existing legislation. The evil is, that there is no competition in banks of deposit, and that the trade of banking is unnecessarily narrowed. I think I could from papers in my hand supply the House with information which it is hardly prepared to receive. Is the House aware of the change which has taken place since the Act of 1845 was passed? We had twenty-four banks in Scotland in 1844. At present they are reduced to thirteen. We had shareholders in these banks holding £12,000,000 stock in 1844, and now we have only £9,000,000 of banking capital.
 1748 1749
 MR. FERRAND  said, game could not be preserved by legislation, but only by a good feeling between landlord and tenant. He supported the Bill.
 MR. W. ORMSBY GORE  said, he was prepared to make the penalty the same as that in the English Bill.
 MR. ALDERMAN ROSE  said, that if he had entertained any doubt as to the vote he ought to give upon the present occasion, it would have been removed by the speech of the hon. Baronet who moved the Amendment (Sir Charles Douglas). The hon. Baronet had told them that he and his friends were content to let this question remain as it was during the continuance of the present Parliament, which had determined to maintain church rates, but that they intended to resort to a general agitation at the hustings at the next General election. He (Mr. Alderman Rose) would, therefore, vote for the second reading, in order that this question might, if possible, be settled before the threatened agitation could arise. The policy of those Gentlemen was quite intelligible. It was a policy whereby a minority, by a system of complete organization, could exercise a terrorism, over the country in order to coerce the majority to accept their views. He was not quite sure that the agitation would result according to the expectations of those who promoted it, but he deprecated it as injurious alike to the Church and to Dissenters. He should support the second reading of the Bill, and thought it would be very unwise to reject a settlement of this question when an opportunity presented itself.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, that the speech of the right hon. Baronet (Sir Charles Wood) held out little prospect of the solution of a question which had occasioned the most violent contests on a matter which ought not to be made the arena of party contest. The right hon. Baronet suggested that it would be better to allow the question to rest for the present. That course might suit those who wished to have a fertile field for discussion on the hustings kept open. But this was a question which entered so closely into the comprehension and daily life of every parish, that it was most unfortunate that the question of attachment to the national Church should be canvassed and agitated
 1725
 SIR JOHN HAY,  in moving the second reading of the Bill, said, he would not delay the House long in explaining its object, which was a very simple one. The House was aware that by the Bank Act of 1844–5 the Scotch banks then existing (twenty-three in number) were permitted to resort to a fixed issue as against their credit; and, in addition to the issue of notes so granted against their credit, they were further allowed to issue notes as against the amount of gold which they might have from time to time in their coffers. This issue was totally independent of the fixed issue, and could not be changed save by the action of the Legislature. Since that time, several of those banks had either joined together or had completely passed away. The Western Bank of Scotland, for instance, had completely disappeared from public business. But the issue of notes by the Scotch banks had not consequently diminished, because the gold having increased, and the issue of notes being dependent on the amount of bullion in the bank coffers, the issue has not diminished to any very great extent. This Bill did not in any way apply for a fixed issue as against credit for new banks which might in future he established. The commercial necessities of Scotland required, however, an extension of the banking system, which had been curtailed, while the commercial transactions of the country had considerably increased. The simple proposal of the Bill was that any person or persons carrying on the business of banking in Scotland should have power at any time to issue notes as against the gold they might have in their coffers. His sole reason for proposing this measure to the
 1728
 SIR JOHN HAY : I wish to say a few words in explanation. After what has fallen from the Chancellor of the Exchequer, I think it would be wrong on my part to intercept the course of policy which he has indicated. I trust that at an early period he will endeavour to amend those parts of the Act of 1844 which press unduly on commerce. I do not accept the interpretation which the hon. Member for Inverness (Mr. H. Baillie), has placed upon the Bill; but throughout the debate, it seems to me that a fallacy has prevailed in the minds of some of the hon. Members who have addressed the House. They seem to think that a Bank of England note is a legal tender in Scotland. Such is not the case. It is there deprived of the character of a legal tender, which in England is a guarantee of its value. On the understanding that the Chancellor of the Exchequer intends soon to legislate upon this subject, gathering from his statement that his views concide very much with mine, feeling that on this occasion I have obtained from him everything but his vote, and on the understanding also that the hon. Member for Edinburgh will withdraw his Amendment, I am prepared to withdraw the Bill.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he could not have expected that his hon. and gallant Friend would have made this attack upon the Irish constabulary without giving him notice of the particular cases to which he intended to refer. Had he done so he (Sir Robert Peel) would have been prepared to meet him; but though the topic which he has introduced has nothing to do with the subject which we are in Committee to consider, I cannot allow his reference to the Inspector General to pass without observing that the Irish constabulary is in a high state of efficiency, and that Sir Henry Brownrigg, who was appointed by Lord Eglinton, has received the thanks of successive Governments in Ireland. I believe the hon. and gallant Gentleman has referred to the estate of my hon. Friend the Member for Galway (Mr. Gregory) in connection with some little partridge shooting. I would ask the hon. and gallant Gentleman whether that was a very grave offence in that wild part of the country? Why, have we not all been accustomed, when the fancy took us, to sport, perhaps, a little unlawfully?
 1754
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, the Game Law in Ireland was more oppressive than the Game Law in England. At present fines for poaching were inflicted to the extent of £10; this Bill would make the maximum penalty £2 only. The measure, so far as the purpose to which it was directed was concerned, would make the law less oppressive and more effective.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, he admitted that this Bill proposed legislation of a somewhat exceptional character; but, after the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, no doubt can be entertained as to the justice of the principle on which it was founded. The right hon. Gentleman had not said one word in defence of the monopoly of the present banks; on the contrary, he confessed that there existed a practical evil, because the present system rendered it impossible for a new bank to be established in Scotland without the power of issue. The principle of the Bill was strictly in accordance with the Act of 1845, by which the Scotch banks had a power of issue con-
 1745 "Our general rule is to draw a distinction between the privilege of Issue and the conduct of ordinary banking business. We think they stand on an entirely different footing. We think that the privilege of Issue is one which may be fairly and justly controlled by the State; and that the banking business, as distinguished from Issue, is a matter in respect to which there cannot be too unlimited and unrestricted a competition. The principle of competition, though unsafe in our opinion when applied to issue, ought, we think, to govern the business of banking."—[3  Hansard 1746 "The Act of 1845 has produced several practical effects in the management of the banks of Scotland. Had not the Act of 1845 been passed, it is probable that new banks of Issue would have been framed in Scotland during the speculations of the year 1846, and there might have been great competition between the old and the new banks. There is now among the banks a less spirit of competition than formerly. There are fewer attempts to attract customers by the offer of increased accommodation. There is a less disposition to grant cash credits, and less anxiety to obtain those accounts that put into circulation a large amount of notes. Some advances too have been made upon banking charges. The banks have attempted to reimburse themselves for the increased expense of keeping gold by charging a commission upon the amount of the cash credits, and upon payments made in London, thus confirming the doctrine that statesmen are slow to learn that restrictions on banks are a tax on the public."
 MR. COWPER  replied, that the sculptor had been asked to furnish designs, but the matter was still under consideration.
 LORD STANLEY  said, as he was Chairman of the Commission, he would answer the Question. He hoped to have the Report ready about Whitsuntide. It would have been ready before now, but it had been delayed through the necessity of sending communications to the Chambers of Commerce and other public bodies who had to make their Returns, some of which had not yet been received.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL , in reply, said, with reference to the first part of the Question, he had received no authentic information on the subject, and it was therefore impossible that the attention of the Law Officers of the Crown could have been directed to it. He knew nothing whatever of the facts, and could give the hon. Gentleman no information on the subject. With regard to the other part of the Question, he had only to say that the statement made on the 1st of July, 1862, was this, that the first section of a Hong Kong Ordinance containing several sections had lapsed, which first section contained several provisions on the subject of neutrality— namely, for the punishment of all persons who might be engaged in war service in opposition to the Chinese Government, and some other things then mentioned. But the Duke of Newcastle also stated that other sections of the same Ordinance—3 to 8 — had been renewed and made perpetual by an Ordinance made in 1857. These sections provided for the punishment of persons who were concerned on board armed vessels carrying the Chinese flag in the waters of the colony; and also for the punishment of persons who might sell guns or munitions of war in the colony without a permissive licence. Those
 1775
 MR. HEYGATE  said, he would beg to ask the First Commissioner of Works,
 1776
 MR. COWPER , in reply, said, Her Majesty's Government had determined on proposing to Parliament a Vote in the Estimates for erecting a National Gallery on the vacant ground in the rear of Burlington House, and the Estimate was now being prepared, and would shortly be laid on the table of the House.
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he wished to inquire, when the Army Estimates would be taken?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said in reply, that in the present state of public business, it was impossible to name any day. He understood that it was intended to proceed with the remaining Navy Estimates before resuming the discussion of the Army Estimates.
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said he would beg to ask whether the Land Revenue Bill will be taken at a late hour? The Chancellor of the Exchequer had given notice of a new clause affecting the standards of sugar. Does the right hon. Gentleman intend to make a statement of the changes he proposes?
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the hon. Member who had moved the Resolution (Mr. Peacocke) did not ask the opinion of the House on a question of policy, but asked their judgment on a pure question of International Law. He did not specify any objection he had to the despatch of the Duke of Newcastle, but
 1788 Tuscaloosa bonâ fide bonâ fide 1789 Tuscaloosa? Tuscaloosa 1790 "The vessel in question, now called the  Tuscaloosa Alabama Correspondence Alabama's "The admission of this vessel into port will, I fear, open the door for numbers of vessels captured under similar circumstances being denominated tenders, with a view to avoid the prohibition contained in the Queen's instructions; and I would observe that the vessel  Sea Bride Alabama 1791 "The  Tuscaloosa Correspondence Saxon Tuscaloosa Tuscaloosa Saxon Tuscaloosa Wheaton Wheaton 1792 Wheaton "Thus it has been settled that where a ship was originally armed for the slave trade, and after capture an additional number of men were put on board, but there was no commission of war and no additional arming, it was not a setting forth as a vessel of war under the Act. But a, commission of war is decisive if there be guns on board, and where the vessel after the capture has been fitted out as a privateer it is conclusive against her, although, when re-captured, she is navigating as a mere merchant ship." Ceylon Dodson's Reports "She had on board twenty-six guns, 110 men, with arms and ammunition of every description in sufficient quantities for offensive and defensive operations…. She sustained an engagement with British ships, and assisted in the destruction of the  Sirius Magicienne Tuscaloosa 1793 Tuscaloosa Sea Bride "With respect to the  Alabama "With regard to the vessel called the  Tuscaloosa Alabama Alabama Correspondence "It would appear that the  Tuscaloosa Alabama infra prœsidia 1794 Correspondence "Connected with this subject is the question as to the cargoes of captured vessels which is alluded to at the end of your despatch. On this point I have to instruct you that Her Majesty's orders apply is much to prize cargoes of every kind which may be brought by any armed ships or privateers of either belligerent into British waters as to the captured vessels themselves. They do not, however, apply to any articles which may have formed part of any such cargoes, if brought within British jurisdiction, not by armed ships or privateers of either belligerent, but by other persons who may have acquired or may claim property in them by reason of any dealings with the captors, I think it right to observe that the third reason alleged by the Attorney General for his opinion assumes (though the fact had not been made the subject of any inquiry) that 'no means existed for determining whether the ship had or had not been judicially condemned in a court of competent jurisdiction;' and the proposition that, 'admitting her to have been captured by a ship of war of the Confederate States, she was entitled to refer Her Majesty's Government, in case of any dispute, to the Court of her States, in order to satisfy it as to her real character.' This assumption, however, is not consistent with Her Majesty's undoubted right to determine within her own territory, whether her own orders, made in vindication of her own neutrality, have been violated or not."—p. 18. Santissima Trinidad 1795 "The question remains what course ought to have been taken by the authorities of the Cape—1, In order to ascertain whether this vessel was, as alleged by the United States Consul, an uncondemned prize brought within British waters in violation of Her Majesty's neutrality; and 2, What ought to have been done if such had appeared to be really the fact? I think that the allegations of the United States Consul ought to have been brought to the knowledge of Captain Semmes while the  Tuscaloosa Tuscaloosa's Tuscaloosa Tuscaloosa 1796 Tuscaloosa procul este profani 1797 locus standi Wheaton "Where the capture of enemy's property is made within neutral territory, or by armaments unlawfully fitted out within the same, it is the right as well as the duty of the neutral State, when the property thus taken comes into its possession, to restore it to the original owners." 1798 Wheaton Alabamas 1799
 MR. J. J. POWELL (Gloucester)  said, it seemed to him that the right hon. Gen-
 1809 Tuscaloosa Tuscaloosa bonâ fide Alabama Alabama Tuscaloosa "On the 8th of August the tender  Tuscaloosa 1810 Correspondence Wheaton "With regard," wrote the Duke, "to the  Tuscaloosa Alabama Alabama Correspondence bonâ fide 1811 "I think that the allegations of the United States Consul ought to have been brought to the knowledge of Captain Semmes while the  Tuscaloosa Tuscaloosa's Tuscaloosa Correspondence 1812 Tuscaloosa Tuscaloosa Alabama Tuscaloosa? Tuscaloosa Ceylon 1813
 MR. MONTAGUE SMITH  said, he agreed with his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General that, in dealing with questions of this kind, the House should approach them in something like a judicial spirit. He also agreed with him that there was some inconvenience in the House of Commons taking up questions of International Law; but it had always been the practice both of that and the other House of Parliament to express an opinion upon such questions. And when the Solicitor General expressed a hope that the votes of hon. Members would be given that evening without any party spirit he entirely sympathized with him; but he ventured to say that in that case his hon. and learned Friend himself must vote in favour of the Resolution. His hon. and learned Friend had made a most gallant defence of the instructions sent out, probably by his own advice, to the colony. He (Mr. M. Smith) was quite willing to admit the difficulty, which none but a lawyer could properly appreciate, in which the Law Officers of the Crown would feel themselves placed in such a case. They would have to apply principles not to be found in the ordinary current of authorities, but in books of international jurisprudence, which required some research, and to apply them to cases presenting circumstances of novelty and difficulty. But when he was asked to express an opinion upon the despatch of the Duke of Newcastle, and when his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General in such bold and defiant language laid it down that nothing in that despatch could
 1821 Tuscaloosa Tuscaloosa Tuscaloosa bonâ fides 1822 Tuscaloosa Tuscaloosa bonâ fide Alabama Alabama Alabama "Captain Forsyth has informed me that the  Alabama Alabama's Tuscaloosa Alabama Tuscaloosa "An armed vessel, named the  Tuscaloosa 1823 Alabama Alabama Tuscaloosa Georgiana Tuscaloosa "It has been usual for the Court to look in the first place for the commission of war, because where that is found nothing more is wanted." "Take it to be as stated, that it is the act of an officer commanding one ship only, the distinction does not appear to me to be very material. When it has been held that the commander of two or three ships may sufficiently 'set forth to war,' it, is not going much further to say that the commander of a single ship may possess the same authority." Tuscaloosa Alabama 1824 Tuscaloosa Tuscaloosa 1825
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : Earl Russell said the Law Officers declared that it was a matter for serious consideration.
 MR. MONTAGUE SMITH  said, he quite accepted the interpretation that it was "a matter for serious consideration;" but the Solicitor General went much further than this, and treated the question as beyond doubt, and that all that had been done was perfectly right. Surrounded as they were by eminent politicians, he could not help thinking that the law of his hon. and learned Friends was somewhat warped by the politics and exigencies of the moment. Away from their present associations, it was impossible to have two better opinions; but, unconsciously to themselves, no doubt, their views had been distorted by their position. His hon. and learned Friend had referred to instances in which a neutral Power was entitled to seize a ship in the hands of a belligerent when brought into its own ports; but in the authorities from which those instances were drawn, including the excellent treatise of the Queen's Advocate on "International Law," he must have seen that they were all exceptions, founded on the fact that the original capture was bad in law. There was no authority justifying the neutral Power in manning the prize from one of its own ships of war in such a case; and had the Confederates been a strong Power, no doubt they would have resented that proceeding as an act of war. If the same step had been taken with a nation able to enforce its own views on international usage, he believed the "serious doubts" of the Law Officers would still have remained. What was such an act, in effect, but making the Queen a recaptor for the Federal Government? In explanation of the instructions sent out to the Cape, altering the decision of the colonial authorities, both as to the law
 1826 Tuscaloosa Tuscaloosa Tuscaloosa
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : Sir, there are two principal questions as to which, if I rightly understand the Motion of the hon. Gentleman opposite, it is intended by this vote to ask the House to
 1834 Tuscaloosa Alabama Alabama 1835 "Captain Forsyth having informed me that the  Alabama Alabama's Alabama Alabama's
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : The hon. and gallant Gentleman interprets those words as equivalent to "under the command of one of the  Alabama's "I shall take care to submit this question to Her Majesty's Government by the next mail, but in the meantime I conclude that your Excellency will be prepared to act upon the opinion of the Attorney General in respect to any vessels which may enter these ports in the character of prizes converted into ships of war by the officers of the navy of the Confederate States."— Correspondence 1836 Tuscaloosa "The vessel in question, now called the  Tuscaloosa Alabama Sea Bride Alabama Correspondence "Now this vessel has her original cargo of wool still on board, which cannot be required for warlike purposes, and her armament and the number of her crew are quite insufficient for any services other than those of slight defence. Viewing all the circumstances of the case, they afford room for the supposition that the vessel is styled a 'tender' with the object of avoiding the prohibition against her entrance as a prize into our ports, where, if the captors wished, arrangements could be made for the disposal of her valuable cargo, the transhipment of which, your Excellency will not fail to see, might be readily effected on any part of the coast beyond the limits of this colony. My sole object in calling your Excellency's attention to the case is to avoid any breach of strict neutrality." —  Correspondence 1837 Tuscaloosa Saxon Saxon Vanderbilt ruse Tuscaloosa 1838 Wheaton Wheaton "The information given respecting the actual condition of the  Tuscaloosa Wheaton Alabama Correspondence Tuscaloosa Alabama 1839 "I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your Excellency's letter, dated yesterday, respecting the Confederate bark  Tuscaloosa Alabama Alabama Alabama "The  Alabama 1840 Valorous Correspondence "An important question has arisen in connection with the  Alabama Tuscaloosa Wheaton's International Law Alabama Ibid 1841 Tuscaloosa 1842 Nereyda Nereyda Tuscaloosa 1843 "I consider that the mode of proceeding in such circumstances most consistent with Her Majesty's dignity, and most proper for the vindication of her territorial rights, would have been to prohibit the exercise of any further control over the  Tuscaloosa 1844 Tuscaloosa 1845 1846 1847 1848 1849 "If the result of these inquiries had been to prove that the vessel was really an uncondemned prize, brought into British waters in violation of Her Majesty's orders made for the purpose of maintaining her neutrality, I consider that the mode of proceeding in such circumstances, most consistent with Her Majesty's dignity, and most proper for the vindication of her territorial rights, would have been to prohibit the exercise of any further control over the  Tuscaloosa Tuscaloosa 1850
 MR. DENMAN  said, that if the discussion of questions of this sort in that House was attended with inconveniences, still greater were those which would arise from rash votes upon questions of great international importance. He hoped that, in the present instance, no vote would be come to upon the Resolution before the House, because either its adoption or rejection could not fail to be productive of mischief. If it was carried, there would be danger, not only that it might
 1827 Tuscaloosa Georgiana 1828 Ceylon Georgiana Tuscaloosa Tuscaloosa 1829 Wheaton Tuscaloosa 1830 Tuscaloosa Alabama 1831
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he wished to ask, Whether the attention of the Law Officers of the Crown has been directed to the Report of a recent Trial before the Consular Court at Shanghai, at which a man named George White, charged as an accomplice in the capture of the  Firefly
 MR. AYRTON  said, he was astonished that the Chancellor of the Exchequer should assent to a clause of this kind being smuggled into this Bill. It was an attempt to revive a duty that had formally been condemned by Committees of the House. The City did nothing for the money it received for measuring grain, and hitherto it never had the power to weigh grain. Already Committees of the House had reported against the City being allowed to retain these rights. The proposition was most extravagant, and he called upon the Committee to negative the proviso.
 MR. NEATE  said, that although the proposal to count out the House had proceeded from that side of the House, there was no reason to impute it to the Government. Of those who rushed in to make the House a large majority belonged to the Government side, and all through the debate there had been two Members on the Government side to one on the other. He thought there would not be much difference of opinion that the  Tuscaloosa Tuscaloosa 1820 Alabama Tuscaloosa's
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  was understood to say that he had received no such order, and was not aware of its existence.
 MR. CARDWELL , in reply, said, he was ready to lay the Correspondence on the table if his hon. Friend would move for it. With reference to the first part of the Question, he had not in his possession any information to enable him to make the Returns.
 MR. PEACOCKE  rose to call attention to the subject of which he had given notice, and thought, when the House was made acquainted with the facts, that they would agree with him that it was one of the most bungling transactions that any Government was ever engaged in. It would appear that the Confederate vessel of war the  Alabama Conrad Alabama Tuscaloosa 1778 Tuscaloosa Tuscaloosa Wheaton "I would here beg to submit to their Lordships' notice that the power of a captain of a ship of war to constitute every prize he may make a 'tender,' appears likely to me to lead to abuse and evasion of the laws of strict neutrality, by being used as a means of bringing prizes into neutral ports, for disposal of their cargoes and secret arrangements."—  Correspondence, North America Tuscaloosa 1779 "I am well aware that your Government has conceded to the so-called Confederate States the rights of belligerents, and is thereby bound to respect Captain Semmes's commission; but having refused to recognize the 'Confederacy' as a nation, and having excluded his captures from all the ports of the British Empire, the captures necessarily revert to their real owners, and are forfeited by Captain Semmes as soon as they enter a British port."— Correspondence "Whether, in the case of a vessel duly commissioned as a ship of war, after being made prize by a belligerent Government, without being first brought  infra prœsidia 1780 "I think it right to observe that the third reason alleged by the Attorney General for his opinion assumes (though the fact had not been made the subject of an inquiry) that 'no means existed for determining whether the ship had or had not been judicially condemned in a Court of competent jurisdiction;' and the proposition that, ' admitting her to have been captured by a ship of war of the Confederate States "I think that the allegations of the United States Consul ought to have been brought to the knowledge of Captain Semmes while the  Tuscaloosa Tuscaloosa's Tuscaloosa Correspondence 1781 "Your Grace intimates that the citation from this authority by the Acting Attorney General does not appear to have any direct bearing upon the question. You will assuredly believe that it is not from any want of respect for your opinion, but solely from a desire to avoid future error, that I confess my inability to understand this intimation; or, in the absence of instructions on that head, to see in what direction I am to look for the law bearing on this subject. The paragraph cited made no distinction between a vessel with cargo and a vessel without cargo; and your Grace leaves me in ignorance whether her character would have been changed if Captain Semmes had got rid of the cargo before claiming for her admission as a ship of war. Certainly, acts have been done by him, which, according to  Wheaton infra, prœsidia Wheaton 1782 Alabama Correspondence Tuscaloosa Tuscaloosa "As it appears that this vessel, the  Tuscaloosa Conrad 1783 Tuscaloosa 1784 Exchange "It seems, then, to the Court to be a principle of public law that ships of war entering the port of a friendly Power open for their reception are to be considered as exempted by the consent of that Power from its jurisdiction.…. The arguments in favour of this opinion have been drawn from the general inability of the judicial power to enforce its decisions in cases of this description, from the consideration that the sovereign power of the nation is alone competent to avenge wrongs committed by a Sovereign; that the questions to which such wrongs give birth are rather questions of policy than of law, that they are for diplomatic rather than legal discussion." Santissima Trinidad "Nor will the Courts of a foreign country inquire into the means by which the title to property has been acquired. It would be to exert the right of examining the validity of the acts of the foreign Sovereign, and to sit in judgment upon them in cases where he has not conceded the jurisdiction, and where it would be inconsistent with his own supremacy. The commission, therefore, of a public ship when duly authenticated, so far at least as foreign Courts are concerned, imparts absolute verity, and the title is not examinable. The property must be taken to be duly acquired, and cannot be controverted." Ceylon "I hold it to be unnecessary that she should have been regularly commissioned; it is enough that she was employed in the public military service of the enemy by those who had competent authority so to employ her." Castor "There was no regular commission, for it is not in the power of the Admiral to grant a regular commission; he has only an inchoate authority
 1785 lieutenant de vaisseau Georgiana Georgiana Essex James's Naval History Alabama 1786 "I have now to explain that this decision was not founded on any general principle respecting the treatment of prizes captured by the cruisers of cither belligerent, but on the peculiar circumstances of the case. The  Tuscaloosa Alabama Tuscaloosa Alabama Alabama Tuscaloosa Alabama Tuscaloosa Tuscaloosa Tuscaloosa 1787
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he has any objection to produce the Correspondence between himself and the Lieutenant Governor of Jersey, relative to proposed alterations in the constitution of the Royal Court in that Island?
 MR. SHAW LEFEVRE  said, the Question before the House was one of great difficulty, and much better fitted for discussion in a Court of Law than in the House of Commons; but, at all events, it ought to be treated by hon. Members in a spirit of neutrality. There appeared to him to be two questions involved—first, what course should have been adopted in reference to the  Tuscaloosa Tuscaloosa Tuscaloosa 1816 Tuscaloosa Tuscaloosa Tuscaloosa Alabama Alabama 1817 Alabama's
 MR. SHAW LEFEVRE : With respect to the course to be adopted in future towards prizes brought into our ports, it was hardly safe to Bay that all prizes which came into ports belonging to Her Majesty should be handed over to their original owners, for ships with prizes intended to be submitted to the adjudication of a Prize Court might be obliged by stress of weather, or for want of provisions, to enter, those ports. In such cases the prizes should not be handed over to the owners, unless the vessels which captured them had been equipped in British ports, in violation of the Queen's proclamation of neutrality. But in all cases where there was reason to believe that they came in for other purposes than that of going to the ports of their captors for condemnation, he thought they should be detained or restored to their original owners. In common with many other hon. Members, he sympathised with the gallantry of the Confederates, though he had no sympathy with their cause; but he must say that he had also no sympathy for them in respect of vessels like the  Alabama 1818 Prohibe infandos a navibus ignes
 MR. WHITESIDE : Sir, the hon. and learned Gentleman said, at the outset of his able speech, that there was no question of policy involved in this discussion. I beg leave to deny that proposition. There is the policy which led to instructions so legal and so perfect that we are told by the hon. and learned Gentleman that they are about to be immediately modified or repealed. I say there are involved in this debate questions of policy and law, of a very interesting character, I agree with the hon. and learned Gentleman that these questions should be discussed in a manner commensurate with their importance. When I first read these papers I asked myself how it happened that such extraordinary despatches should have emanated from any Department of the Government, I answered myself by saying, "The authorities ruling at the Foreign Office at that moment thought the war was going against the South, and that it was extremely likely the North would be successful." I called to mind the speech at Blairgowrie; and although I remembered the more statesmanlike speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer at Newcastle — that Jefferson Davis, as he called him, had not only made an army and a navy but had made a nation—yet I saw that one was later in date than the other. I accept the declaration of the Solicitor General that we ought to preserve strict neutrality. But we complain that the law of neutrality has been improperly violated in this matter, that the transaction is indefensible, and I am satisfied that the hon. and learned Gentleman, and his learned Colleague the Attorney General, have advised the Crown that it is indefensible, and that they have corrected the very instructions of this despatch, which the Solicitor General employed a good portion of his speech to prove were so perfect as not to need correction. The facts of the case are very simple. I heard with surprise the hon. and learned Gentleman, several times in the course of his speech, talk of "shams" as well as realities. There are no "shams" in the case of the  Tuscaloosa Conrad 1800 Tuscaloosa Conrad 1801 Conrad Alabama Tuscaloosa Alabama Tuscaloosa? Alabama 1802 Alabama Tuscaloosa Alabama Tuscaloosa Alabama Tuscaloosa A laugh Arrow 1803 Alabama Tuscaloosa Alabama Tuscaloosa Tuscaloosa Alabama 1804 Alabama "Captain Semmes frankly explained that the prize  Sea Bride Tuscaloosa Alabama Sea Bride Tuscaloosa Correspondence 1805 Tuscaloosa Tuscaloosa Tuscaloosa "With regard to the vessel called the  Tuscaloosa Alabama Alabama "Whether, in the case of a vessel duly commissioned as a ship of war, after being made prize by a belligerent Government, without being first brought  infra prœsidia 1806 Tuscaloosa Tuscaloosa Tuscaloosa Tuscaloosa "In August last the  Tuscaloosa 1807 Tuscaloosa Correspondence Tuscaloosa 1808 Tuscaloosa
 MR. HENNESSY  moved, by way of Amendment, the omission of that portion of it, under the operation of which a sailor might be charged a fee of £1 for a letter of attorney for the purpose of having his wages amounting to £10 drawn. That, he contended, was a provision which operated oppressively, seeing that an hon. Member of that House might draw out of the funds £10,000 under the operation of the same Schedule for a sum of 5 s
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he would comply with that suggestion.
 MR. HOPWOOD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, in the absence of the First Lord of the Treasury, If he would be willing to propose a Conference on American Affairs?
 MR. LOCKE  said, he wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether any communications have been received by Her Majesty's Government from the Astronomer Royal and Comptroller General of the Exchequer as to the urgent necessity for an adjustment and re-verification of the Exchequer standards of Weight and Measure; and, if so, the date thereof; whether any steps have been taken for effecting such adjustment and re-verification; and, if so, when the same will be completed; whether any representations have been made with a view of relaxing the Law against tradesmen for small deviations in their Weights and Measures until the standards have been ad-
 1772
 MR. LOCKE  believed the City of London received £13,000 a year for the metage of corn, after paying for the metage. The meters paid for their offices, and were entitled to protection.
 MR. NORRIS  said, the metage of corn established by immemorial custom, and confirmed by charter of James I., was instituted for the purpose of enforcing justice between vendor and purchaser, and, as at present carried out, gave satisfaction. The matter was of sufficient importance to justify the moderate favour conferred by the clause.
 MR. VANCE  said, he wished, in the absence of his hon. Friend (Mr. Darby Griffith), to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, When the Return moved for as to the operation of the Tenure and Improvement of Land Act (Ireland) will be laid upon the table?
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, When the Patent Law Commission will make their Report?
 MR. CRAWFORD  consented to withdraw the proviso, at the same time announcing that he should adopt such other measures as might seem most desirable for the protection of the interests of his constituents.
 MR. CRAWFORD  moved the addition of a proviso reserving the right of the Corporation of the City of London, the fellowship porters, and other corporate bodies, to charge for the weighing of all grains rates equivalent to the present charges for the measuring of such grains.
 MR. AYTOUN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colo-
 1771
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, in reply, that a communication had been received from the Astronomer Royal to the Comptroller General of the Exchequer, dated February 1, 1859. It had been transmitted to the Secretary of State for the Home Department, with a letter from the Comptroller General, dated February 9, 1859. It would be found printed and appended to the Report of the Committee on Weights and Measures in 1862. Since that time the Report of the Astronomer Royal to the Treasury, dated March 30, 1864, as Chairman of the Standard Committee, lately revived by the Treasury for the examination of the national standards, had been received, transmitting a Resolution of the Committee of March 16, 1864, with reference to the re-verification of the Exchequer standards—
 "That the Committee entirely recognize the importance of this subject, and the necessity for again urging it on the attention of the Government."
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  said, the merchants of London were satisfied with the existing state of things, and the question did not so much affect the privileges of the City, as the means of livelihood of 1,500 or 1,600 fellowship porters, who were of great service to the trading community.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Why the bas-reliefs intended to be placed on the base of the statue of Richard Coeur de Lion in Palace Yard have not been so placed; and whether he will communicate with Baron Marochetti, and have them done at an early period?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he should bring on the Inland Revenue Bill that evening, however late the hour might be. There were a number of alterations, chiefly of a formal character, to be made; and there were also the provisions to which the House had agreed to be inserted in the Bill. He wished to introduce those alterations, and then to reprint the Bill. He was not aware that there was any point upon which it was likely there would be much discussion, unless it were the question which the hon. Gentleman himself intended to raise. If the Bill passed through Committee that night, he should not ask the hon. Gentleman to discuss that question under pressure of time, but would undertake that a thoroughly convenient hour for that discussion should be given upon an early night.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was not aware that any discussion was likely to take place, except on the point suggested by the hon. Member for Wallingford (Mr. Malins), and that was a very narrow point, and might be settled in a few minutes.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he disclaimed any interference with the Corporation of London, except by separate and direct legislation; but if hon. Members desired to introduce a clause to preserve existing interests, he did not know that he should object to it, but he thought it should not be done in a Bill affecting the general interests of the revenue. They should make the proposition by a Bill on another day.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  hoped that, as no notice had been given of the Amendment, the hon. Gentleman would consent to raise the Question on the Report.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  approved the proposition as respected pawnbrokers, and moved the insertion of words to that effect; which was agreed to.
 MR. COX  gave notice that, on the bringing up of the Report, he would move that the property in possession of pawnbrokers, and the carriages and horses of
 1861
 MR. FERRAND : If these Estimates were not proceeded with to-night, would they be taken to-morrow night?
 MR. FERRAND  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is intended to include Paper Tube Manufactories in the Factory Acts Extension Bill; if not, whether he will direct the Commissioners to inquire into the Working of the Children in these Factories?
 MR. FERRAND  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether Mr. Rawlinson has sent in his Report on the state of the Sheffield Reservoirs; if so, whether he will lay it upon the table of the House; if he has yet sent in his Report on the Bradford Reservoirs; and if he has been engaged in inspecting any other than the Sheffield and Bradford Reservoirs under the authority of the Home Office?
 MR. FERRAND : Was not the same assurance given two years ago by the Mayor of Bradford?
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India for an explanation of a "Head Quarter" Circular, addressed to "British" Army Medical Officers in India, calling for volunteers for the "New Line Corps and Brigades of Royal Artillery."
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in reply, said, there would be no objection to produce the Correspondence, which would be in continuation of that produced last Session.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, an assurance was given that the water should be drawn off when repairs were going on.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, Her Majesty's Government have no intention whatever of proposing a Conference upon American affairs. If the hon. Gentleman means a Conference, comprising representatives from all the European Governments, I can see no ground that has been laid for such a proposal, to which it is quite certain the Government of the United States would not agree.
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in reply, said, Mr. Rawlinson had not yet sent in his Report on the state of the Reservoirs, He had been very much engaged in Lancashire. He was sure the hon. Gentleman wished the Report when sent in should be complete. But Mr. Rawlinson had assured him, a few days ago, that he had been preparing his report, in communication with Mr. Beardmore, with regard to the Sheffield Reservoir, Mr. Beardmore being associated with him in that examination. He had also promised to furnish Reports on the Bradford Reservoir, and had inspected two other Reservoirs, one near Dewsbury, and the other at Burnley, in Lancashire. That was a Reservoir erected out of money raised under the Public Works Act. He said in regard to all the Reservoirs that were considered unsafe the water had been drawn off, and an assurance given that they would not be again filled until they had been examined by a competent civil engineer, so that there was no local danger now.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that paper tube manufactories were not included in the Bill referred to, because they had not yet been reported upon by the Commissioners; but he was told the Commissioners expected to include them in their next Report.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : An arrangement on the subject could be made when they saw how they progressed to-night.
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in reply, stated, that what was said yesterday was that notice would be given of the Resolution on Monday, not that it would be then discussed.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to know what opportunity there will be for discussion, if any point arises on the Navy Estimates.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : Sir, I am glad the Attorney General has told us that our business was not to affirm the wisdom of the conduct of the Government in these transactions. I believe if that had been the proposition before the House, not even the Attorney General, who has been as bold as most men to-night—not even the Solicitor General, who was not quite so bold as the Attorney General—not a single Member—would have ventured to say that the transactions which are detailed in those papers have been characterized by the attribute of wisdom. But before we go to a division, I want the House to understand what is the question on which we are going to divide, for I think the Attorney General has mistaken the question. I venture to think that the discussion has ranged over two questions which are of a very different nature. The first is—What was done to the  Tuscaloosa 1851 Tuscaloosa Tuscaloosa "An armed vessel, named the  Tuscaloosa Alabama Alabama Correspondence 1852 Tuscaloosa? Tuscaloosa Tuscaloosa "Whether in the case of a vessel duly commissioned as a ship of war, after being made prize by a belligerent Government, without being first brought  infra prœsidia Correspondence 1853 "I will now proceed to convey to you the views of Her Majesty's Government on these questions." Tuscaloosa "Her Majesty's Government have, therefore, come to the opinion, founded on the special circumstances of this particular case, that the  Tuscaloosa Alabama Correspondence Tuscaloosa Tuscaloosa 1854 Tuscaloosa Tuscaloosa 1855 casus belli 1856 1857 Wheaton Wheaton Wheaton "The jurisdiction of the national courts of the captors to determine the validity of captures made under the authority of their Government is exclusive of the judicial authority of every other country, with two exceptions only," Wheaton ordonnance 1858
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, that in his opinion it was clear that the  Tuscaloosa 1814 Essex Essex Junior Georgiana Essex Essex Junior Phoebe Georgiana Barossa Georgiana Georgiana Tuscaloosa Tuscaloosa Tuscaloosa 1815 Tuscaloosa
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he should not have risen to take part in the discussion but for one observation made by the hon. and learned Member for Reading (Mr. Shaw Lefevre), but before he did so he must say that Her Majesty's Government did not deserve any great credit for attempting again a count out after the very disgraceful manœuvre the other night on the China debate. It was a very easy, and, no doubt, convenient mode of getting rid of a disagreeable question—when they found that the feeling of the House was setting strongly against them, to get one of their supporters to move the count out of the House; but he thought that some quieter mode of getting rid of the discussion would have been more consonant with their dignity than resorting to this flagrant abuse of one of the privileges of that House. Having made those remarks, he must say that the hon. and learned Member for Reading had advanced some doctrines which he, as a naval officer, must pronounce altogether heretical. He must remind the hon. and learned Member that there was a wise distinction between a privateer and a tender. A tender carried with her all the powers and character of the ship from which she receives her commission, and, therefore, the  Tuscaloosa Alabama Alabama Tuscaloosa 1819
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, that having been personally alluded to by the hon. and learned Gentleman, he wished to remark that when it was said that a captain at Portsmouth had commissioned one of Her Majesty's ships, it did not mean that he had conferred that commission upon himself.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he wished to ask with reference to the Resolution as to Inspectors of Schools mentioned last night, if the Government will lay the Resolution on the table to-day or to-morrow, previous to its discussion on Monday.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  advised the Chancellor of the Exchequer not to mix himself up with what was likely to be a very pretty quarrel between the City and the rest of the metropolis. He rejoiced to find that grain was in future to be sold by weight. He thought the Chancellor of the Exchequer would do well to omit the
 1860
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  replied, that the officials employed under it were not Government officers. They had been invited to give a Return, and he believed it would shortly be on the table.
 MR. BOVILL  said, he concurred in thinking that a vote on this subject might lead to a mischievous result if it should affirm a principle of International Law which was not correct. The country had been placed in a state of humiliation by the seizure of a vessel belonging to a weak State, and our being afterwards obliged to surrender the vessel so seized; and whilst the instructions which had been given remained unrepealed, what had occurred might occur again, and subject us to further humiliation. While the instructions of the 4th November, issued to the Governors of the Colonies, remained uncancelled and unaltered, other cases might occur which would be equally mischievous; and although he quite agreed that that House was not a proper tribunal for the discussion of questions of International Law, yet the attention of Parliament must be called to the subject, and an attempt made to put the matter upon a proper footing. In cases of this kind there was always a difficulty in ascertaining the precise facts to which the law was to be applied; and a dispute had arisen as to the true character of the  Tuscaloosa Alabama Alabama Alabama 1832 Alabama Alabama 1833
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, the answers to the queries which were issued by the Fishery Inspectors showed a very great unanimity of opinion, that some method of collecting a fund for the protection of the Fisheries was necessary and should be established by law. The hon. Gentleman the Member for West Cumberland (Mr. Percy Wyndham) had, he thought, stated fairly
 1917
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the case of Mr. W. Bewicke, of Threepwood Hall, in the county of Northumberland. He trusted the House, when they considered the nature of the subject, would excuse him for bringing it forward a second time. When he last brought this subject before the House, there were forty-six hon. Members present, of whom, deducting four tellers, twenty-two voted against his Motion, and twenty voted in its favour. But the hon. Member for Shoreham (Mr. Cave) by mistake went into the Government lobby, but for which accident the numbers would have been equal, and the result would have been decided by the casting vote of the Speaker. He would not presume to inquire how that right hon. Gentleman would have voted, but from his known character as a friend of the oppressed, he was confident that his Motion would have been carried. After the division he received many communications expressive of regret that his Motion had been unsuccessful,
 1918 1919 nemine contradicente 1920 1921 1922 quid pro quo
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, it would, no doubt, be far more agreeable to the House to support a Motion of that kind, if convinced that it was right, than it would be to oppose it; but persons who stood in his position were bound to take care that the House should, as far as possible, be made thoroughly aware of the true nature and probable consequences of the Resolution it was asked to adopt. The Question was one which emphatically belonged to the House; and the Government could have no object except that if the House thought fit to affirm the Resolution it should clearly understand the principle involved, and the serious pecuniary charge which might possibly be placed upon the nation. The hon. Gentleman the Member for South Northumberland (Mr. Liddell) described that case as discreditable to
 1931 1932 1933
 MR. SOMERSET BEAUMONT  observed, that the great fault which, according to the Attorney General, the unfortunate gentleman had committed was, that he neglected to retain the services of counsel. No doubt that was a grave error in the estimation of those hon. Members who belonged to the Bar, but in the present case it had arisen from the entire consciousness of innocence. Besides, Mr. Bewicke possessed considerable abilities, and he thought he should have no difficulty in establishing his innocence. The Attorney General had said this was a question more for the House than the Government to consider, he therefore hoped he might appeal to his hon. and learned Friend and his Colleagues, as Members of the House, so to record their votes that justice might be done.
 MR. H. BERKELEY : I should like to understand distinctly whether the whole merits of the case are to be referred to a Committee. I confess I have a sort of compunction in agreeing to the suggestion, because we do not always know that the formation of a Committee is one on which we can depend. However, I am in the hands of the House, and if they consider I ought to agree to this proposal, I will do so.
 MR. H. BERKELEY : There is no petition before the House. Under the circumstances, feeling that the sentiment of the House is with mo, I hold it to be my duty, after the best consideration, to proceed to a division.
 MR. H. BERKELEY : I cannot accept the proposal, which appears to me to be an attempt to upset the vote, and to be indecent and unparliamentary.
 MR. SOMERSET BEAUMONT  was of opinion that the proposals of the Government completely met the justice of the case.
 MR. DIGBY SEYMOUR  said, he rose to call attention to the extensive employment of Climbing Boys in sweeping Chimneys, and the systematic violation of the "Act for the Regulation of Chimney Sweepers and Chimneys" (3 & 4  Vict, c
 MR. DIGBY SEYMOUR  said, his attention had been directed to the subject to which his question related by an article in  Good Words 1941 Cheshire News 1942 1943 Vict
 MR. COWPER  said, he quite admitted the importance of the subject under discussion, as no one could doubt that the Patent Office was unfit for its purpose. It was placed in Chancery Lane in 1853, and the building there was at that time sufficient for the wants of the office and the library, but the library had increased so rapidly that it had outgrown the space allotted to it. The necessity, therefore, for increased accommodation had pressed upon the Government and upon the Commissioners; but, for the convenience of persons engaged in legal proceedings, the Patent Office must be in the neighbourhood of the Courts. It was exceedingly difficult to find accommodation for the purpose in that part of the town; but there was a building which appeared to be suitable, Last year, when they were asked the purposes for which they wanted to purchase the site of the Exhibition building at Kensington, they mentioned the Patent Museum and the Collection of Natural History, for it was not possible to find sufficient accommodation for the models in the same building with the office. The House had thought proper not to agree to the proposition of purchasing the Exhibition building itself, and therefore he felt bound to turn his attention to the erection of a new structure, and with that view he had invited competition for a design for one which would hold the patent models and the Natural History collection of the British Museum, and which would harmonize with other buildings that might subsequently be erected for purposes of science and art. South Kensington, to which the hon. Member for Swansea seemed to have such an objection, would be equally and even more convenient for the working men of the metropolis and of the country at large than Chancery Lane. It had never entered into the mind of any one to remove the library from the office, but the Museum was not an essential part of either one or the other. A model was not a part of a legal description of a patent, which consisted altogether in the verbal description and engravings. A great number of the models in the Museum
 1955
 MR. KINGLAKE  said, that as he was sitting ["Order, Order!"]
 MR. KINGLAKE  said, that as he was sitting in exactly the same latitude as his hon. Friend (Sir Harry Verney), he could judge what it was possible for him to hear. In the state of the House at the moment a whisper almost might have been heard in the distance, and yet he had not heard the Question put in such
 1961
 MR. CARNEGIE : Sir, I was farther off than the hon. Member for Liskeard (Mr. Osborne); and though I do not deny that the hon. Member has eyes and ears, I also claim the privilege to have eyes and ears, and I think it is only due to you, Sir, to state that I heard you put the Question before the hon. Member rose.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he felt bound to make a few remarks on this matter, as in
 1930
 MR. PERCY WYNDHAM  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to bring in a Bill this Session to amend the Salmon Fisheries Act (1861)? The Report of the Inspectors had for some time been in the hands of hon. Members. It contained information from every part of the kingdom, and suggested the Amendments required in the present Act. One of those recommendations was that powers should be given to raise a fund for the protection of the rivers from poachers, and to secure the carrying out of the Salmon Fisheries Act. In certain places the Act was notoriously a dead letter, and it was certain that persons could be found everywhere who would break the law if they could do so with impunity. There were at the present moment many associations for the protection of salmon rivers, but they had spent every farthing they had obtained by private subscription, and they must certainly collapse unless other funds were forthcoming. In the case of the Fowey, in South Wales, after working with considerable success, the association had been compelled to give up and abandon the fruits of their labours to the poachers; he knew of poachers that had made£40 or £50 a year by the fish they took. The Inspectors were unanimous that powers should be given to raise funds, and almost unanimous as to the best means of
 1916 s
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he was not aware what course the hon. Member for Bristol (Mr. H. Berkeley) meant to pursue, but, if he might offer a word of advice, he should counsel him not to close with the offer of the right hon. Baronet. The whole argument of the right hon. Baronet was simply, that the House of Commons was not to perform one act of justice, lest it should be called upon at some future time to do another. The illustration which he had used to prove the soundness of his advice to the House proved its unsoundness. He cited the case of a clergyman who was convicted unjustly, and who never made any claim on the Crown for compensation. That showed that if the House did justice in the present case it did not follow that it would be called on to do justice in every other similar case which might happen. Whether it were in respect to a gentleman of birth and education equal to themselves, as Mr. Bewicke was said to be, or in the case of the humblest member of society, he hoped the House would never hesitate to do such an act of justice as the hon. Gentleman now called on them to perform. The right hon. Baronet said that, though he might have no objection to change the law, as long as it remained unchanged he objected to justice being done in exceptional cases; but so long as the Government, who were chiefly responsible for the existing state of the law, were contented with that state of the law, and permitted those exceptional acts of injustice to be perpetrated, it was to that House the sufferers must appeal. The right hon. Baronet had not referred to the case of
 1929
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he sincerely trusted that the indication which they had heard of the intentions of the Colonial Office would be verified by the result. He felt, however, that the few observations which fell from his right hon. Friend, showed the great difficulties which surrounded his path. He could not divest his mind of the remembrance of the debate which had taken place on the previous evening, when they had under discussion a subject of national and great political importance. A part of the question was the divergence of opinion between an Admiral upon a station and the Governor of a Colony. That Admiral, distinguished in his profession, had a future course of emolument, distinction, and promotion open to him on his return home, while the Governor, by whose decision the Admiral was guided, on returning, would be allowed to remain an unknown and unrecognized public servant. Was it politic, could it pay, to engage men to fill the office of Colonial Governor, in which they might have to determine questions of peace and war, and then, when they came home, having, perhaps, earned the respect and gratitude of their fellow countrymen abroad, condemn them probably to obscurity and poverty for the rest of their days? The time was come for the serious consideration of the question, and he trusted that the House would press upon Members of the Government, who were, perhaps, adverse to the proposal just made with so much ability by his hon. Friend, the duty and the necessity of some change in the present system.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he could answer for it that the Speaker had put the Question and said, the "Ayes have it." The hon. Member for Buckingham then rose, and the Speaker said he had already put the Question.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU : I heard the Question, and if those hon. Gentlemen opposite did not hear it, perhaps that is due to the somniferous state into which they had been brought by the speeches which had been previously made.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he had heard the Question put, but he did not hear it carried. He heard the Ayes but not the Noes. He suggested that there might be some confusion as to what was meant by putting the Question. He had very clearly heard the Speaker put the Question, "That I do now leave the Chair." At that moment the hon. Baronet rose. He did not hear the rest of the Question put, "You that are of that opinion say aye, &c." In his opinion the hon. Baronet had risen before the complete form had been gone through.
 MR. AYRTON : I beg your pardon; we can request the Speaker to return.
 MR. AYRTON  said, the position in which the Question had been left by the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman was most ambiguous and unsatisfactory. He was not acting in concert with the Commissioners of Patents, and the whole responsibility, therefore, was cast upon the
 1957
 MR. AYRTON : I think it very inconvenient to report Progress; the proceedings which have taken place must be reversed. There is no doubt that the hon. Baronet was on his legs when the Question
 1958
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said he felt great reluctance in the then state of the House to introduce a question of very considerable importance, but he was anxious that the case of a most distinguished body of gentlemen should be put fairly before Parliament and the country. They had had a discussion that night as to the injustice which had been done in an individual case, but the case he had to submit was one of injustice to a large class of most distinguished gentlemen. It was a case of justice to Governors of Colonies, but it also involved the best interests of the colonial service generally. For the last half century great attention had been paid to the case of pensions and superannuation allowances to meritorious officers. Several Committees had sat on the question from time to time. Of these the most important was appointed in 1856 and reported in 1857. In 1859 the present system was introduced, by which superannuation allowances were given out of the Consolidated Fund to all who had served the Government in civil employments; but Governors of Colonies were excluded from participation in the benefits, in the face of the new regulations for the diplomatic service. In the case of the diplomatic service the necessity of paying their officers and giving retiring allowances had been accepted. It was decided that an attaché should begin to count his time after three or four years' service, and the system of retiring allowances to begin after fifteen years' service was carried out to a much greater extent than formerly. It seemed extraordinary that only one class of public servants were excepted from the privilege of superannuation allowances or retiring pensions, that class being gentlemen of the highest consideration, who had filled offices of the highest responsibility in the State. They were more important than attachés, because they represented the person of the Sovereign. He believed the circumstance
 1945 Vict 1946 "In short, my deliberate opinion about colonial service is this:—The public, in this department, is the worst master a man worth anything can have. Under the present system there is no career, properly so called, and an able man who devotes himself to the colonies makes a great and serious mistake. It may be, in many cases, that a man cannot help himself; but I speak of those who have an opportunity of advisedly selecting their line of life. It is not a comfortable reflection, after spending the best part of one's life in the public service, to find that the provision thought equitable in other cases is denied specially in yours. Whether a man can or cannot do without it, there must be a certain bitterness of feeling generated by the contrast." 1947 1948
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he thought that looking to the responsible
 1956
 MR. DISRAELI : I wish to remind the House that there is a great difference between the case of Mr. Barber and the case of Mr. Bewicke. Mr. Barber had not con-
 1936 1937
 MR. DISRAELI : I look upon this merely as a proposition to rescind the vote which the House has just come to. Therefore it is unnecessary to revive the discussion which has just terminated, and the best thing to be done is at once to go to a vote.
 MR. DISRAELI : I wish, Sir, to put a Question to Her Majesty's Government with respect to the Conference. The House is aware that the Conference met on Monday last. It is adjourned; and I
 1915
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that when he had the honour of succeeding to the Colonial Office he found that his noble Friend who had preceded him in that Office had taken a deep interest in the question. A departmental letter had recently been sent to the Treasury, containing, in general terms, the same arguments which had been adduced by the hon. Member who had just spoken. Owing partly to the illness of his noble Friend, which all would regret, no answer had been received. The subject had been under his own consideration, and he had been in communication with the Chancellor of the Exchequer respecting it. In all such communications the Departments at first adopted different views. Those who stood in his position adopted much the same view as the hon. Member for Honiton, while it was the necessary duty of the guardians of the public purse to examine most minutely all the arguments that were advanced in favour of any increase in expenditure. He could only say that the subject had received the most careful consideration of his Department, and it was receiving the most earnest attention of the Treasury Department. He was not prepared to announce that it was in such a state as that the decision of Government could be given upon it; but he hoped before long to be able to make a statement respecting it. Meanwhile, he thought his hon. Friend would agree that it was not desirable that he (Mr. Cardwell) should enter into any discussion of the arguments either for or against the proposed change.
 MR. HORSMAN : I understand my hon. Friend is invited to follow the precedent set in the case of Mr. Barber. A Committee was appointed to inquire into the circumstances; they made a Report; upon that Report the House took action, and awarded compensation.
 MR. HORSMAN : I think the course which the Government is taking is very unusual. It is taking the House by surprise, and putting it in an unfair position. Who knows anything about this petition? It was not presented during the present Session, and therefore it was presented before many hon. Members were elected who have now a seat. We have never seen it, and yet we are asked to rescind a vote which we have just come to, upon a Motion that has been made, by referring to the consideration of a Committee a document which we know nothing about. We do not know whether the allegations in the petition were the case as stated by the mover of the Resolution. There is this difference between the ease which has been referred to and that of Mr. Bewicke. Here the facts are universally accepted. The statements of my hon. Friend the Member for Bristol (Mr. H. Berkeley) are not disputed by the Government. It is quite evident that Mr. Bewicke has been treated unjustly, and we are very much aggravating that injustice by the course proposed.
 MR. HORSMAN : May I venture to ask the Government whether they can state to the House what is the cause of the adjournment of the Conference?
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he was not able to give a silent vote on the Motion before the House, because it might go further than many hon. Gentlemen supposed. It was most important that the House of Commons should not constitute itself a tribunal to decide on  ex parte
 MR. HUNT  said, the right hon. Member for Stroud (Mr. Horsman) said the Amend-
 1939
 MR. HUNT  said, he rose to Order. He wished for the opinion of the right hon. Gentleman as to whether the fact of an Amendment having been already carried to the Motion for going into Supply the House must not proceed to the Order which came next after Supply.
 MR. HUNT  said, he would propose several Amendments in Clause 4, which would make the clause stand thus—
 "If any holder of a licence granted under the said Penal Servitude Acts, or any of them, who shall be at large in the United Kingdom shall, unless prevented by illness or other unavoidable cause, fail to report himself personally to the chief police station of the borough, or police sta-
 1966
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he would not object to the introduction of the Bill, but unless coerced by the votes of the House he would never consent to the retrograde propositions it contained. There was a general opinion in the profession that the present system of pleading worked well. It facilitated the despatch of business in the Courts, and gave entire satisfaction to all parties. He believed the Bill would be the introduction of a system of litigation, delay, and expense such as his right hon. Friend did not anticipate. He hoped that the second reading of such a revolutionary Bill would not be taken for a month.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he understood this proposition to be an attempt to negative the vote which had just been taken. He understood the House had affirmed by their vote that Mr. Bewicke was entitled to compensation.; and the proposition now was to refer it to a Committee to say whether he was to receive anything or nothing. No attentive listener could have misunderstood the Question; but the complaint was that they had not decided upon a petition which was not before them. That was not the first, or second, or third time that compensation had been given to an aggrieved man whom the law left with no appeal, and against whom the accusations were false.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that an Amendment had been proposed to the Motion that the Speaker do now leave the Chair, and had been carried. It had been for some years the practice of the House, under such circumstances, for the Minister to move that the House should immediately resolve itself into a Committee of Supply, and that the Speaker should leave the Chair. Such a Motion had been made, and the business of the evening might thus proceed without interruption.
 MR. SPEAKER : The rule of the House with respect to asking question of a private Member is that any question may be put relating to any Bill, Motion, or other public matter connected with the business of the House in which such Member may be concerned. If the hon. Gentleman is prepared to show that the Question he is about to ask comes within these limits he may put it; otherwise he may take the opportunity in debate of referring to the matter, but he cannot put it in the shape of a question.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Baronet can address the House on a Question of order without moving the adjournment.
 MR. SPEAKER : I am sorry that any misunderstanding or misapprehension should have arisen on the part of any hon. Members as to the course that was pursued. At the same time, I cannot admit for a moment that there was anything in that course which was not strictly in accordance with the exact rules of the House. With no hurry, I rose and put the Question that I should leave the Chair. No hon. Gentleman rose, and I declared the Question carried. I can now understand why the hon. Baronet the Member for Buckingham did not rise—because he says he thought I should call on the Gentleman who stood before him on the list. Now, the House is aware that unless an hon. Member rises to move an Amendment I do not call upon him. If any Gentleman wishes to move an Amendment it is for him to rise, and then I call upon him to proceed. On this occasion I put the Question, "That I do now leave the Chair." No one rose, and I then said, "As many as are of that opinion say aye; of the contrary opinion, no; I think the ayes have it." I then turned to leave the Chair, and the hon. Member for Buckingham rose in his place. It is perfectly true that the hon. Member rose in his place before I left the Chair, but not before I put the Question. That is an exact statement of the case, and I regret that any hon. Member who was paying any attention to the business of the House should have arrived at a different conclusion.
 MR. ROGERS  said, he wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade, By what authority the proceeds of unclaimed wreck, to which the right of private owners had been acknowledged by the Crown, have been retained by the receivers since such acknowledgment of claim?
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he rose to call attention to the insufficiency and inconvenience of the temporary Museum for Inventions at South Kensington, and the Patent Office in Southampton Buildings, and to the expediency of uniting the Museum of Inventions and the Patent Office under one building, and at a convenient distance from the law courts. On two former occasions when he had the Motion on the paper the House was counted out. He therefore had no alternative but to bring it forward even in the then thin state of the House, The Patent Office in Southampton Buildings, Chancery Lane, contained the specifications of patents and a valuable collection of books. It was near the law courts, and as far as site was concerned, was well enough adapted to its purpose. Several years ago the patented and other
 1951
 MR. DILLWYN  resumed his statement. In 1859 a proposal was made that the inventions should be transferred from the South Kensington institution to a building to be erected on a piece of ground in the same neighbourhood. Desiring that they should be exhibited at some place near the centre of the metropolis, and knowing the grasping disposition of the authorities at South Kensington, he took exception to the estimate for the new building, as he feared that if once located there they would probably be permanently retained there. The Government told him, in reply to his remarks, that they had considered the question of site and had determined that the new building at South Kensington should be regarded as a temporary erection. Eventually the vote passed on that distinct understanding. After some time the inventions were transferred to it. They still remained there, and a large number of fresh models had been added to the collection, which now formed the nucleus of a very valuable museum. But the authorities at South Kensington were quite unable to exhibit the inventions to advantage. The models were crowded higgledy-piggledy together at a great distance from the law courts, which prevented the possessors of inventions from sending them for exhibition, and so the museum was at a complete standstill. Matters were even worse in Southampton Buildings, where the books and specifications were stowed away in narrow inconvenient cells and passages, in the latter of which they were not sufficiently protected from the weather. The Government appeared to be quite alive to the necessity of doing something in the matter; but he was rather afraid they were proceeding too fast. It was a subject upon which the opinion of the House certainly ought to be taken. There was something very curious in the absorbing powers of Brompton for museums, The Members of
 1952
 MR. DILLWYN : As it is a matter of evidence in some respect, I may give the evidence of my senses. I was sitting here very near my hon. Friend the Member for Liskeard, and I did not hear the Question put by the Chair. I can confidently assert that my hon. Friend rose before the Speaker left the Chair, because when my hon. Friend rose I could not see the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair for my hon. Friend.
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL  said, he rose to ask the hon. Member for Galway (Mr. Gregory), If it is true, as has been stated, that a Sub Inspector of Police, attended by men of the force under his command, trespassed and shot game on the estates of the hon. Member, without permission or authority; and that he refused to desist or to leave the lands, when warned off by the tenants.
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL  said, he would bring up the matter in another form.
 MR. HUMBERSTON : Sir, it so happened that when the Question was put I was standing behind the chair of the Sergeant at Arms; and it seemed to me that that Gentleman rose to advance towards the mace before the hon. Baronet rose from his seat.
 MR. WYKEHAM MARTIN  said, he had distinctly heard the whole of the Question.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  declared that his learned Friend was in order.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Why, the Speaker ran away!
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Sir, I protest against the Chair being vacated in this way. It is a gross breach of the common courtesy due to the House. My hon. Friend the Member for Buckingham (Sir Harry Verney) got up to address the House and yet Mr. Speaker left the Chair. In all the course of my Parliamentary experience, I never saw anything like that clone before. I put it to the House if this can be permitted. It appears to me that we are to be treated like the Conference, and be adjourned  sine die
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : I second the Motion for adjournment. ["Order, order!"] I maintain that this is a Question affecting the privileges of this House; and, without making any pointed allusion to you, I must say that I did not hear you, Sir, put the Question. A noble Lord on the other side (Lord R. Montagu) said he did hear it; but he was sitting in close proximity to the Chair. I was not favoured with that private and confidential communication. My hon. Friend below me rose before you left the Chair. [ Cries of
 MR. MALINS  said, he rose to express his great satisfaction at the observations which had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the Colonial Secretary, because he know the right hon. Gentleman was one of those persona who never made professions without an endeavour to give them effect. It so happened that he was acquainted with several gentlemen who had been colonial Governors, and no position could be more painful, or more disgraceful to the country, than to see gentlemen who at one time represented the Queen abroad, obliged to live, he would not say in garrets, but in obscure lodgings in obscure streets in London. That was a most unfortunate state of things. A distinction had been drawn between the diplomatic and the colonial service; but he should like to know why gentlemen connected with the Colonial Department were not equally entitled to pensions with those in the Diplomatic Department. The Colonial Governors, he believed, did not amount to more than fifty; and certainly the amount required would not exceed £10,000 or £15,000 a year. He was satisfied that the right hon. Gentleman would do his beat to carry out his promise. The question was too important to be burked, and he regretted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not been present to hear the discussion. Daylight having been once let in upon the question, he felt satisfied that the discussion would lead to a valuable result.
 MR. MALINS  said, it was the universal opinion that the sufferings of Mr. Bewicke were such as to entitle him to compensation. The right hon. Baronet (Sir George Grey) had consented to refer part of the petition to a Committee—that part having reference to compensation with respect to the loss of his furniture. He quite agreed with his hon. Friend the Member for Leominster (Mr. Hardy) that the reference ought to be general; that the whole petition should be referred to a Select Committee, who should be desired to report upon all the allegations, and say whether Mr. Bewicke was entitled to any and what
 1935
 MR. INGHAM  said, that being well acquainted with the unfortunate gentleman who was the subject of the present Motion, he trusted the House would allow him to make a few remarks which would generally confirm the statement of the hon. Member for Bristol (Mr. H. Berkeley). When he first heard of the charge from the High Sheriff of the county, he was: under the impression that it was merely an ordinary charge of a trifling breach of the peace, violent language, or something of that sort. To his surprise he found he was charged with wilfully firing at the sheriff's officer with a felonious intent. He went to see him, and could scarcely bring him to realize the gravity of the position in which he was placed. In fact, Mr. Bewicke treated the charge from the first as a monstrous one; he could not be persuaded to attach any importance to it, So fully was the evil character of these men known, that he fully expected that when the charge was examined in court it would explode of itself. He could hardly describe the consternation and dismay created in the north of England when Mr. Bewicke was convicted. A large number of memorials were forwarded to him from almost every parish in the neighbourhood, signed by thousands of persons, which he laid before the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary. Of course, the Home Office could not act until some new facts were laid before it, and though the men on whose evidence Mr. Bewicke was convicted had been heard afterwards to express their disappointment at not getting the compensation, or hush money, they wanted, yet it was some time before any trustworthy, credible witnesses could be procured, whose evidence proved that the charge was provoked by the cupidity of those perjured witnesses.
 MR. TORRENS  proposed to add the following proviso to Clause 25:—
 "Provided, that in every case where the Civil Bill Court for any county of a city, or county of a town, shall be hold in the adjoining county at large, the under sheriff of such county of a city, or county of a town, shall only be required to attend the sittings of such court, and provide such bailiffs as aforesaid, while the business arising within such county of a city, or county of a town, is being transacted; and the chairman is required to provide, making such general rules as aforesaid, for the due and orderly hearing and transacting of such business successively, at one particular time during such sittings."
 MR. TORRENS  said, upon that understanding he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. WHITBREAD  said, that in moving the clause of which he had given notice, he had no wish to interfere with what was called the Irish system, but he should pause before introducing it in its integrity into this country, and certainly should not be willing to adopt one portion only, and that the most objectionable part of that system. According to Sir Walter Crofton's view, expressed in a letter to  The Times 1962 "It shall be lawful for Her Majesty, by an order in writing under the hand and seal of one of Her Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State, to grant to any person sentenced to penal servitude after the passing of this Act a remission of such portion of his sentence, not exceeding one fourth part, as to Her Majesty shall seem fit, provided that if any person to whom such remission has been granted shall, before the time at which his original sentence would have expired, be convicted either by the verdict of a jury, or upon his own confession, of an indictable offence, or upon summary conviction of an offence punishable with imprisonment for three months or for a longer period, he shall, after undergoing the period of imprisonment to which he may be sentenced for such offence, further undergo a term of penal servitude equal to the portion of his original sentence so remitted to him; and shall, for the purpose of his undergoing such last-mentioned punishment, be removed from the prison of any county, borough, or place in which they may be
 1963
 MR. WHITBREAD  said, he would withdraw the clause.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON , in reply, said, he had obtained information on the subject to which the Question of the hon. Gentleman referred. Under the Merchant Ship-
 1914 primê facie
 MR. O'HAGAN (THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND) : Sir, in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the process, practice, and mode of pleading in the Superior Courts of Common Law at Dublin, I shall very briefly call the attention of the House to the circumstances under which the measure has originated, the necessity which appears to me to justify it, and the objects it attempts to accomplish. The lateness of the hour induces me to postpone very many of the observations I had meant to make, especially as I shall have ample opportunity to discuss the provisions of the Bill in Its future stages; but it is desirable that I should put before the House and the country, in the fewest possible words, some representation of the state of things, which seems to me to commend to their approval a scheme of legal reform of such importance and extent as I shall show this to be. The same diversity which has prevailed between England and Ireland in the course of administrative and legislative dealings with the Courts of Equity, has equally affected the Courts of Law in the respective countries. I have already had occasion to explain historically to the House how the Equity Courts have been dealt with, and it is necessary that I should offer some similar explanations as to the Courts of Law. In England there has been a series of reforms, commencing in the year 1827, and progressing continuously down to the year 1860, when the last legislative measure on the subject was framed. The real reform of the Courts of Law in England dates from the great speech of Lord Brougham in 1827. Up to that time nothing was done substantially to rectify the errors which undoubtedly prevailed in the Courts of Common Law in England; but that
 1968 Will Will Vict Vict Vict 1969 Vict 1970 1971 "We have carefully considered the working of the system of pleading and practice introduced into Ireland by the Irish Common Law Procedure Act of 1853, and find that it has not been satisfactory, nor has it been attended with such advantage as would justify a continuance of a diversity of practice between the two countries. And we have come to a unanimous resolution, that the system of practice and procedure of the Courts of Common Law of England and Ireland should, as far as practicable, be assimilated. In adopting this resolution, we feel that we are only, in effect, restoring that substantial uniformity which existed in course and practice of the Superior Courts of Common Law in both countries, from the reign of King John to that of King William the Fourth." 1972 "The law of pleading in civil suits had been settled in the course of centuries by Judges of the greatest learning and ability, instructed by experience and assisted by able lawyers, in repeated discussions of every important principle—the only way in which such a law could or can be made reasonably perfect. A fabric had been thus erected which had long been the boast of English jurists and English Judges. The erection of it was the work of the judicial wisdom of ages. Its destruction was a summary act of legislative power. The substitute for it is the hasty fabrication of empiricism. The framers of the Irish Procedure Act assumed that all established forms were either absurd or mischievous, and that the abolition of them was the first great step towards the simplification of law. Forms and fictions which had been for centuries established, which had been approved of by sage writers and jurists, and had been jealously guarded by the wisest of our Judges, suddenly became the subject of sarcasm and ridicule. The abuse of them became a road to popularity, and the abolition of them was so loudly applauded by the multitude, who did not understand their utility, that the few who did were abashed, and no one raised a voice in support of them. If it were possible to read the mass of absurdity, of falsehood, and of inconsistency which the last eight years have placed on the files of the Irish Courts in the shape of socalled truthful and simple pleadings, and if it were possible to narrate the series of forensic discussions to which these shapeless pleadings gave rise, at the expense of suitors for justice, if the censures from time to time expressed by able Judges upon the mischievous novelties by which the administration of the law was clogged and impeded, could be recalled and repeated, we should be astonished at the apathy of the public and its rulers, by which this evil has been so long tolerated." "The result of my experience of the working of the present system of common law pleading in Ireland is that such system has been, on the whole, extremely unsatisfactory. It has brought about a most involved and perplexing system of making up records for trial, and of sending questions to juries, and it has led to very great and unnecessary expense." 1973 "The existing system of common law pleading in Ireland does not, in my opinion, work well; and I consider it calculated seriously to embarrass parties in the assertion of their rights, and to be attended with unnecessary prolixity and expense." "I have to express my opinion that uniformity of practice and procedure in the English and Irish legal tribunals is attended with such advantages, that to the attainment of this object all minor details must give way. For this reason, even if the Irish system had been superior, I yet should have been favourable to the adoption of the English; but, so far as I have had opportunity to compare the two systems, I consider that the English ought to be preferred. My experience has been that a loose and uncertain mode of pleading prevails under the Irish system; that in actions of tort, the want of the general issue, or some equivalent plea, entails such difficulties upon the pleader as to impede the proper defence of his client; that the ascertainment of the issue to be tried before the evidence has been heard, embarrasses both Judge and jury in the discharge of their duties at the trial; and that the abolition of local venues, and the permission to plaintiffs, by choosing their own place of trial, to withdraw the case from the neighbourhood where the character of the parties and their witnesses is known, has tended to increase expense, encourage speculative actions, and make the result uncertain." "The result of my experience, and my opinion of the present system of common law pleading and practice in Ireland is, that nothing can be worse. The change in the present system of pleading and practice in the Common Law Courts of Ireland that I would suggest is to assimilate it, in every respect, to the English system." 1974 1975
 MR. O'HAGAN  said, he hoped that the hon. Member would not press his Amend-
 1967
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : My right hon. Friend has explained that it is impossible for the Government to assent to a Resolution which, like the one before us, pledges the House, as we consider and construe it, to this principle—that whenever pain, degradation, and anguish of mind arise out of an erroneous conviction, quite irrespective of loss of a tangible kind, the case should be made the subject of an application to Parliament for pecuniary compensation. The hon. Member for Leominster (Mr. Hardy) opposite, and the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Malins) who followed him, have made a proposition which we feel ourselves able to assent to. I do not deny, and my right hon. Friend has not denied, that there are contained in the petition allegations which may be made the subject of inquiry. The best mode of proceeding will be to agree that the petition should be referred to a Select Committee, and the Government assent to it on the understanding that the Resolution is withdrawn.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that it was evidently not within the knowledge of his right hon. Friend the Member for Stroud (Mr. Horsman) that the petition referred to had formed the subject of a division as well as of a debate, and that the House had recorded its opinion upon the question whether the grievances suffered by Mr. Bewicke, as set forth in this petition, were such as to entitle him to the consideration of Her Majesty's Government. The right hon. Gentleman had complained of the course adopted by his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department (Sir George Grey). The House had just divided on the Question, in which one only of the alternatives before it was presented. His right hon. Friend had met the difficulty at the first possible moment by proposing a substantive Motion, and the House had now before it in precise terms each of the two propositions between which it had to choose.
 MR. COGAN  said, that the Irish system had not prevented the convict from getting employment in Ireland. He trusted the hon. Member would withdraw the clause.
 MR. GREGORY  said, he thought the hon. Member had done well in calling attention to the matter. He wished to know whether the First Commissioner of Works had had any communication with the Patent Commissioners on the subject of the future Patent Museum, and whether they
 1953 1954
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, he thought it highly desirable that some supervision should be exercised upon the ticket-of-leave man in order to see that he did not associate with criminal characters. It was very often difficult to find superior labourers in England, whilst it was not so frequently the case in Ireland. He thought that the isolation of the ticket-of-leave man was, to a great extent, asserted by the Bill of the right hon. Gentleman. He, nevertheless, thought the Bill would be better without the clause now proposed.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  rose to order. He wished to know, whether it was consistent with the rules and orders of the House that such a Question as the hon. and gallant Gentleman had placed on the paper should be asked of any private Member?
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I am not able to say on what day the Conference will re-assemble. They have not adjourned  sine die
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I am not prepared at this moment to state.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he was aware of the disadvantage under which he laboured in objecting to a Motion of that nature, in a case which was undoubtedly calculated to excite the sympathy of the House, and to which, were he to be guided only by personal feelings, he should be very glad to assent. In the discharge of his duty, he should be compelled to ask the House seriously to consider the question raised by the Motion, and to hesitate before they committed themselves to a principle which must have a much wider application than to the particular case before them, and which, in fact, involved an entire alteration of the law. He did not mean to prejudge the consideration of the particular question, if it were brought properly before the House; but it would be his duty to point out the results which, in his opinion, would follow from the adoption of the Motion in its present form. With regard to the facts of the case, he had heard for the first time some of the details in the picturesque narrative of his hon. Friend, but there was no difficulty in gathering an outline of the case, and that he took from Mr. Bewicke's petition, presented during the last Session. In 1861, Mr. Bewicke was defendant in an action in which the verdict was against him, and as he refused to pay the costs, the sheriff of Northumberland by his officers proceeded to levy them. He was not about to defend the character of the sheriff's officers, but he thought the hon. Member for Bristol (Mr. H. Berkeley) must be mistaken in his statement that one of those men, who was afterwards convicted of perjury and sentenced to two years' penal servitude, was discharged with a ticket-of-leave after only sixteen months of his sentence had expired. He could not understand how that had happened unless
 1924 1925 1926 1927 1928
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he regretted to say that the Report of the Commission, and the evidence on which it was founded, fully sustained the statement of the hon. and learned Gentleman, that there were very extensive violations of the law which prohibited the employment of climbing boys in the sweeping of chimneys. He would not go into the question in the then state of the House, and for this additional reason —the attention of the Government had for some time been directed to the Report; but a noble Friend of his (Lord Shaftesbury), at whose instance the Commission
 1944
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I am sure the Amendment is not unparliamentary. I ask you, Sir, whether I am in order in moving the Amendment?
 SIR GEORGE GREY : What we agree to is the appointment of a Committee, to whom the petition [Mr. DISRAELI: What petition?] shall be referred, with a direction to report their opinion to the House. It is impossible to pledge the House to act upon the Report of the Committee.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  stated, with reference to what had fallen from the hon. Baronet the Member for Evesham (Sir Henry Willoughby), that he proposed that the petition of Mr. Bewicke should be referred to a Select Committee, so far as it related to the sale and disposal of his property,
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I think that any observation of this kind ought to be made when the Speaker is in the Chair.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I heard the Speaker put the Question. The Motion which the hon. Member has made I had already made, for I had moved that you, Sir, report Progress and ask leave to sit again.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : The proceedings cannot be reversed. The course will be for the hon. Member now in the Chair to leave the Chair.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that his hon. Friend (Mr. Black) had given notice of his intention to move an Amendment on going into Supply, and his hon. Friend (Sir Harry Verney) had evidently waited for the hon. Member for Edinburgh to be called upon. But the right hon. Gentleman had not called upon the hon. Member for Edinburgh, nor was it necessary or usual for him to do so. For himself, he must say that he distinctly heard the Question put, and he believed that the right hon. Gentleman left the Chair before the hon. Baronet rose. What had occurred was explained by the fact that his hon. Friend (Sir Harry Verney) had waited for the hon. Member for Edinburgh, who was before him, and who did not rise. He thought that no blame whatever attached to the Speaker, whose conduct was always marked by the most perfect impartiality.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he thought the House had expressed a very decided opinion that remission should not be conditional, and that a ticket-of-leave should be given subject to regular supervision. He believed the effect of the supervision as proposed would be, that the greater number of these ticket-of-leave-holders would be driven out of the country. What the effect would be in the colonies he did not know, but, at all events, we should have the benefit of their leaving the kingdom. He hoped his hon. Friend would not press the Question at this moment.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the hon. and learned Member had a right to speak on the point of order.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY : Sir, I wish to address you on a point of order. I beg to state that the name of a Member (Mr. Black) was on the paper before mine. I waited, expecting his name to be called. I thought I had risen to address you before you left the Chair. If you say otherwise, I bow to your decision, but I hope that I may be allowed to proceed with my Motion.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY : Sir, I move the adjournment of the House.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY : As soon as the last speaker had finished his address, I rose, and before the Speaker left the Chair I got up and addressed him.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, there could be no doubt that the case of Mr. Bewicke not only demanded but had the sympathy of the House. The only question was as to the best mode of doing him justice. He understood the right lion. Baronet was willing to refer the question of the forfeiture of the goods to a Committee of Inquiry. That being so, why not add to that inquiry the best means of doing justice to Mr. Bewicke. It would be difficult to adopt the Motion as it now stood, but he certainly considered that some inquiry was necessary.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he would have been very well content to receive the answer which the right hon. Gentleman had just given, if that had been the first occasion upon which a similar reply had been given to the House, and he would be very well content to receive it then as the expression of feeling of the right hon. Gentleman himself. It showed, however, that the Motion of his hon. Friend had been very well timed, The noble Duke, whose illness they all regretted, had, he believed, been sincerely anxious to deal with the question according to its merits, but the real objection, as he had heard for a long time, came from the present Chancellor of the Exchequer. He regarded the existing state of the question as nothing more or less than a national scandal. Sir Edmund
 1949
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, he was a Member of the Committee in Mr. Barber's case. The whole petition was referred to them to report as they thought fit.
 MR. CAVE  said, that his hon. Friend appeared to desire remission of sentences without subsequent supervision. He confessed he would himself rather have remission without supervision than none at all. If probation was valuable, especially when carried out by means of intermediate prisons, be should be sorry to lose it. The ticket-of-leave system failed, not so much in consequence of want of supervision, as because the probation was really worthless. The prisoners were, in fact, discharged before their time because the gaols were overcrowded. But if remission of sentence without supervision were resolved upon, there would be the inconvenience of having different regulations for England and Ireland; and besides this, there would be a feeling of insecurity, which he thought the public would not tolerate. Independently of this, supervision was advisable on these two grounds: — In the first place, the clever rogue would frequently work himself out of prison sooner than the really penitent man. He would have sufficient control over himself to go through the whole probation, but that self-control would not last beyond the prison. Once out, he would be a dangerous character, a corrrupter of the young, and the sooner he was brought back the better. It was cheaper for society to keep such a man in prison than out of it. He quite agreed with a remark of Lord Dudley, at Worcester, though not with his conclusion. "When they gave prisoners a fair trial, and found that all that had been done had been thrown away, the least they could do would be to render them incapable of doing any further harm for some time." The Prisoners' Aid Society would be useless in such a case, even if Government ought to intrust so important a part of their system to anything so uncertain, transient, and irresponsible as voluntary agency. There was no force in the objection to the espionage of
 1964 1965
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  said, he wished to correct an erroneous impression which the right hon. Gentleman seemed to be under—namely, that the House last year consented that the Patent Museum and other collections should be placed at South Kensington. They did no such thing. All that the House did was to affirm by one vote that the land should be purchased, and by another that the buildings upon it should be pulled down. He believed South Kensington was a great deal too far out of London to have the Museum, or any other collections removed there.
 MR. PEEL  said, in reply, that he understood from the Post Office authorities that no inconvenience had been sustained, or extra expense incurred, by the Saturday half-holiday.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  replied, that the experiments with reference to the vaccination of sheep were concluded at Michaelmas last. At the commencement of the present year, the gentlemen who had charge of those experiments were asked for their Report, and they undertook that it should be ready by Easter. They were not officers in his department, and all that they could do was to urge upon them to be expeditious. That Report had not been presented, but he might state the general effect of it was within the knowledge of his (Mr. Bruce's) department. It had been found that sheep were very imperfectly suscep-
 1978
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, in reply, that it was the intention of the Government to appoint a Royal Commission to inquire into the nature and working of the Law of Hypothec in Scotland.
 MR. J. B. SMITH , who had given notice to move, "That the duties on sugar be continued in force for one year only," rose to make the Motion—when
 THE CHANCELLOR OP THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the hon. Member could move the insertion of his restriction on the consideration of Schedule D.
 MR. HENLEY  called attention to Clause 6, which proposed to grant licences at a reduced rate to persons occupying houses below a certain value, to be granted on the overseer's certificate of rating. Under the next clause the overseer was required to give a certificate in such cases, and he was liable to a penalty of £10 if the statement thus given was untrue in any particular. He (Mr. Henley) thought that, as the overseer was liable to this penalty, he ought to have facilities for extracting the information he required from the poor rate book, in order that a mistake might not be made between one John Smith and an-other John Smith, and thus the overseer become liable under the clause. He thought also they were entitled to some small fee on giving the certificate.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he did not think the Law Officers of the Crown were bound to abide by the decision of a Court whose ruling was not final. He said so without any prejudice or personal feeling, because the present Law Officers of the Crown had not been consulted on this point. As to the Question before them, he contended that policies of Insurance ought to be taxed like other engagements. Suppose a man had not the means of paying-down money to make a provision for his wife, but he hoped by his exertions to save money for that purpose. Well, he covenanted that after his death his executors should pay £5,000 for that purpose, Under the existing law the instrument by which he entered into that covenant paid duty, no matter whether the amount was covenanted to be paid the next day or not for years after. And what was the effect of a policy of Insurance? It was simply a covenant that, instead of the insurer's executors paying a certain sum out of his estate upon his death, an Insurance Office should pay the money, and that the insurer should do everything necessary to be done on his part to make that payment absolutely certain. Therefore it was quite plain that the House would be acting with partiality if it refused to impose on policies of Insurance duties similar to those imposed on instruments containing analogous covenants.
 MR. HENLEY  would put a case. If A and B entered into a contract of marriage, and if C, father to A, gave a bond to pay a certain some of money at his death, the money agreed to be paid was hard money not coming from A to B, but from a third party, C. In the case of an Insurance the parties out of their annual income contracted to lay by a certain sum, all the product of which was paid to one of them when the other died. It was not by any means the same thing to persons marrying, because in one case they had a sum of money coming to them on bond, and in the other it was their own savings which were taxed. The two things were not the same in reality, and if the hon and learned Gentleman went to a division he should vote with him.
 MR. PRICE  also thought that if the bond was taxed, the Insurance, which was the more valuable instrument, ought to be taxed as well.
 MR. J. B. SMITH : — I rise, Sir, to move words in Schedule A limiting the operation as to levying the duty on sugar, to the 1st August, 1865. The sugar duties have for many years past been annual, and my proposal is that they shall continue to be so, to give the House and the country opportunities for the further discussion of the question with which they are at present imperfectly acquainted. I am an older free trader than the Chancellor of the Exchequer, or than my hon. Friend the Member for Rochdale (Mr. Cobden). I had the honour to be the first to advocate, in the Manchester Chamber of Commerce, the total repeal of the Corn Laws, and also the equalization of the duties on foreign and colonial sugars; but I take shame to myself that I have not, until recently, inquired into the effect of the
 1987 1988 s s s s d s d s d s s d s d d d 1989 ad valorem "These discriminating rates of duty were fixed as an approximation to the  ad valorem ad valorem ad valorem ad valorem 1990 ad valorem d s d s d 1991 "That the scale of duties has a tendency to act as a protection for the production of low-class West India sugars, and that if it is a question of protection, the consumers suffer. The West India proprietors claim the protection. They cannot stand the competition of Cuba and slave-producing countries." "I think the immediate effect of it would be to put an end to the cultivation of all the estates making the low description of sugar. They are struggling now for existence with a protection of 1 s d "It was said by a London refiner, that if the 16 s 1992 "The claims of the consumers are paramount: they have the right to buy their paper in the cheapest markets." "That no courage or ability can induce the Legislature to sanction a system of protection." 1993 "He would show that since the graduated scale had been adopted, the consumption had gone on increasing until it was larger than ever." "The object of the scale has been attained, because a quality of sugar most valuable to the consumer has been imported." 1994 1995 d d s d 1996 "To strike with a superior duty one pound of sugar which, by a better mode of manufacture, contains more saccharine matter than another pound obtained from the same raw material, is to inflict direct discouragement upon improvement." s s 1997 s s s d s s d s d s s d
 MR. MOFFATT  said, that while he admitted that the plan now proposed was an improvement upon the original proposition, he still thought that the interests of the consumer had not been sufficiently considered. He would urge upon the Chancellor of the Exchequer the propriety of reverting to the old practice, and of allowing the sugar duties to be annually discussed and voted by that House. The effect of the graduated scale had been to revolutionize the sugar trade, and to constitute the refiners a very large and important body in this country, because the consumers had been compelled to purchase their sugars of the refiners, in-
 2013
 MR. LINDSAY  said, that the more he had examined this question the more he had come to the conclusion that the  ad valorem s d s d 2011 ad valorem
 MR. J. B. SMITH  rising to reply—
 MR. PEEL  said, it was quite true that the provisional orders of the Inclosure Commissioners were sanctioned by Act of Parliament, with the Amendment that fifty acres of ground should be set apart in the pariah for the purpose of public recreation. After the Act passed a valuer was appointed in the usual manner at a public meeting in the parish, and instructions were there drawn up for him. The Act of Parliament directed that the fifty acres should be at or near a spot marked A
 2025
 MR. LINDSAY  said, it was not strictly correct to say he never used any machine
 2027
 MR. LINDSAY  asked whether the; £7,500 would complete the works referred to, and whether they would be distinct and complete in themselves, or whether it was only a part and parcel of a great plan to which the House had not yet given its sanction?
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, that last year a sum of,£8,000 was taken for the Naval Barracks at Portsmouth, but only £10 had been expended. Now the Admiralty asked for an additional £5,000., How much of this sum was intended to be spent?
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  expected to hear a better defence of the Vote than had been made by the noble Lord. In the whole course of his military experience, he had never found a barrack worse situated. It was said it was a link in the defence; but it was a link of sand. A heavy weight striking that barrack would carry all before it. It could not stand for a minute before the broadside of a man-of-war, so that it could not be called a defence. His hon. and gallant Friend stated that there could have been no communication between the Admiralty and the War Department on the subject. But if that were so, and if there had been no consultation with the Defence Commission, it was a most flagrant instance of neglect. If considered as a defensive work, it was one of a most discreditable character; and if it was not a defensive work, then it was placed in the wrong position, and was a waste of public money. He believed the total amount was to be £167,801. But what he most found fault with was that those who had devised this plan had placed the officers under a bomb-proof building [Lord CLARENCE PAGET: That is only partly the case], while the troops were put into that pack-of-cards house.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he went upon the Estimate.
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  asked, what was the good of having an unprotected barrack between the two forts? The noble Lord said they had got merely recruits, women, and children there. [Lord CLARENCE PAGET explained that what he meant was that, in time of war, they would probably have but a small number of Marine Artillery there. They would go on shipboard.] And leave their wives and children behind. The great object should be to have the barracks out of range of shot.
 COLONEL NORTH  would ask who were to defend the forts upon which they were spending millions of money? The noble Lord the other night told them that these forts would be defended by the Volunteers and the militia. Why the Volunteers were never intended to man the forts except when the country was invaded. Now it would seem that the women and children were to be left to defend them. He could see no use in spending money on these forts if they were not to be properly defended.
 COLONEL DICKSON  asked whether they were to understand that they were to lay out these enormous sums on barracks as to which in time of war, when the Marine Artillery wore on shipboard, it did not matter a jot whether they wore to be blown in pieces or not.
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  wanted to know how much money had been spent on those barracks, and how much on the officers' quarters?
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  noticed that the former Estimate for constructing additional barrack accommodation at Plymouth was £76,000, and in the present Estimates the sum of £80,000 was put down for their further extension and completion, He thought that some explanation was necessary on this point. It was deceiving the House to bring forward a supplementary Estimate larger than the one originally proposed.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  thought the noble Lord's explanation satisfactory,
 CAPTAIN TALBOT  said, the speech of the noble Lord had given him great pleasure, because it showed that the trouble he had taken about this matter had not been thrown away; it had put a stop to the progress of a dock which he believed was not necessary for the Imperial service, nor for the mercantile marine. So far the statement of the noble Lord was satisfactory; but beyond that there were subjects for remark. He had had a map prepared of the locality, and he trusted the House would look at it while listening to what he had to say. When it was determined to extend the harbour accommodation at Malta, the estimated cost, £125,000, was to be divided equally between the two Governments, and if that amount was exceeded, then to the extent of one-fourth of a limit of £42,000 the Government of Malta would be responsible. It was also agreed that when those extensions were made, the Maltese merchant shipping should give up the French Creek to the Imperial marine upon the water of the Marsa being deepened to a depth of thirty feet at the outer portion, and the remaining portion to a depth of not less than twenty-five feet. For a considerable time the Maltese Government had been desirous of having the dock made by private enterprise; but that plan was not carried out. The want of dock accommodation in the Mediterranean for British vessels had been long known to all naval officers, while at the same time they were
 2041 2042 2043 2044 2045
 CAPTAIN TALBOT  wished the Committee clearly to understand the question at issue. Was the new dock not to be proceeded with before the next meeting of Parliament? He also wanted to know whether the north-west basin was to be deepened to the extent of thirty feet?
 CAPTAIN TALBOT  moved the omission of the whole item for deepening the basin and constructing the dock.
 MR. CARNEGIE  then said that he should not proceed with the Motion upon the subject which stood upon the paper for to-morrow,
 MR. CARNEGIE  said, he wished to ask the Lord Advocate, Whether it is the intention of the Government to appoint a Royal Commission to inquire into the nature and working of the Law of Hypothee as regards agricultural subjects in Scotland?
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Sir, the Channel squadron are in the Downs. They are very nearly complete, and they are perfectly ready to proceed to any part of the world at twenty-four hours' notice. The iron ships have not been docked since their winter cruise; but the  Warrior Black Prince Prince Consort Hector Defence
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  had already stated that he proposed to withdraw the clock, referring it to the Committee now sitting upstairs. He was persuaded, in spite of what had been said, that he should have to bring forward a new Vote
 2049
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  had said he was ready to refer the question to a Select Committee. He was quite sure that his right hon. Friend and his hon. and gallant Friends on the other side of the House would not, from any feelings of party, or any wish to criticise the acts of the Government, do anything unfair, or anything calculated to cause a breach of faith on the part of this country with Malta.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : The £5,000 was withdrawn for the present on account of the dock. The £10,900 would go on towards deepening the basin and completing the side walls of the basin where it had already been deepened. Considerable progress had already been made with the work.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  observed, that the importance of deepening the basin was admitted even by those who opposed the dock.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he now desired to call the attention of the Committee to a matter of considerable importance—the item for deepening the north-west basin arid constructing a first-class dock at Malta. The original sum put in the Estimates for this purpose was £15,900; and he had now to move that that item be reduced by the sum of £5,000. It was right that he should state the grounds on which the Government had decided to make that reduction. The question was rather complicated, but a brief statement would explain the reasons of an agreement which the Admiralty had come to with the Maltese Government, and in which he was confident the Committee would concur. So far back as 1858 it became evident that the harbour used for Her Majesty's ships was entirely insufficient, on account of their increased size, especially as the trade of Malta had also augmented; and consequently proposals were made that a certain portion of the great harbour at Valetta, called the French Creek, should be appropriated to ships of the navy on certain conditions. The arrangement was that before Her Majesty's Government took possession of the French Creek, they should, as a preliminary condition, construct at the Marsa a harbour for merchant vessels, with quays and a basin. As originally proposed, the basin was to have had a depth of only twelve feet, and would consequently have been utterly useless for vessels of war. In the Resolution passed by the Council of Government of Malta on the 29th of May, 1859, it was distinctly laid down that —
 "The merchant shipping shall continue in the possession of the creek, called the 'French Creek,' until all the works intended to he performed at the Marsa and in the said extensions shall have been completed." 2035 "Resolved,—That the head of the Government of Malta he authorized and empowered to enter with the Imperial Government into an agreement to the following effect — namely, 'That if the Imperial Government will, at the charge of the Imperial Treasury, cause a repairing or graving dock capable of receiving a ship of the largest class in Her Majesty's navy to be formed in the proximity of the north-western basin referred to in the Resolution passed by this Council on the 25th of May, 1859, and to be furnished with the machinery and other appendages required to render such dock fit for use; and if, moreover, the said Imperial Government will agree to permit merchant vessels, at moderate charges, to be repaired in such dock, when the use of it may not be required for Her Majesty's ships, then the Government of Malta will consent that the work of deepening the said north-western basin to such extent, beyond the twelve feet established in the above quoted Resolution, as may be necessary for the easy passage to the said dock of a ship of the largest class in Her Majesty's navy be considered as part of the works mentioned in the said Resolution.'" "That the Government of Malta shall not be bound to pay any sum for the additional depth to he given, as aforesaid, to the said north-western basin before that depth shall have been attained, and the said dock shall have been formed and brought to a working condition, whatever may be the cause of either of those works remaining in an incomplete or insufficient state." "Prepared to propose to Parliament a Vote for constructing a first-class dock out of the northwest basin and in the line of the proposed canal, and to make the necessary deep water access to it, upon the conditions set forth in the Resolution passed by the Council of the Governor of Malta at sitting No. 34, on the 9th of May, 1862," 2036 2037 "Having been informed that it has been asserted to the Home Government that the elected Members of the Council of this Island are opposed to the plan of a dock being constructed in the French Creek, we consider it our duty to deny the truth of that assertion, so far as we, the undersigned, are concerned. There is no reason why we should wish that a naval dock should be constructed at the Marsa (the north-western extension) rather than at the French Creek, since this creek must become naval property, according to the existing agreement for the harbour extension. As to whether such a work might be commenced immediately, we only desire that the merchant shipping be not disturbed in the use of the French Creek, before the new extension shall be ready to receive it. If arrangements can therefore be made to that effect, we see no objection to the commencement of the work immediately, with a view to its being completed by the time the French Creek will become naval property. We do not see how it can have been asserted that we are opposed to the construction of a dock in the French Creek, inasmuch as we have never been consulted on this subject, nor have we ever expressed any opinion which could warrant such an assertion." "I am at a loss to understand what could have moved the Members of Council who signed the letter to the First Lord of the Admiralty to take that very unusual step, without previously referring to me for ascertaining whether, in what terms, and on what grounds, I had expressed my opinion in
 2038 "The object of the clause unanimously adopted by the Council was that of keeping in the hands of the local authorities the French Creek as a security for the exact and total execution of the works contemplated in the resolution, and by that clause it was meant that no portion of
 2039 "For, to speak frankly, there can be no doubt, while Admiral Codrington was in command of the dockyard (and who made no disguise that his views were adverse to the plans which had been approved by the Admiralty), that prejudices were fostered which have not yet been altogether eradicated; and although I feel under great obligations to the straightforward, honourable, and very active support of Admiral Austin, yet obviously an undercurrent has shown itself among certain of the subordinates of the department, who, unable or unwilling to conquer their prejudices, prosecute their labours with a want of spirit and energy that is not to the advantage of the public service; indeed, I cannot better characterize my meaning than by saying that 'their heart is not in the work.' " 2040
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that every day improvements were being made in the construction of barracks for the army, navy, and Marines, by means of additional ventilation and other accommoda
 2034
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that the barracks were placed on the best site that the Government could procure for the purpose which they had in view. One weighty reason which had influenced the site was, that the barracks were close to the sea and had a very good range for heavy guns. It was necessary that the young Marine artillerymen, who were constantly practising at this range, should reside in the neighbourhood of their guns. Another reason which influenced the site was, that the Admiralty obtained the ground at very little expense. The barracks were close to Fort Cumberland, and formed a chain of defence from that fort to Southsea Castle, so as to occupy the whole of the beach. The barracks had a very strong breast-work in front, and all round the rear was a crenellated wall, so that they were capable of a very respectable defence. It would not be occupied by any very great number of men in time of war, as Marine artillerymen generally embarked at such times for naval service. The barracks were, in fact, to be considered
 2031
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, the hon. and gallant Officer ought to have known better than to talk of the officers being placed in a bomb-proof building while the men were exposed in the barracks. No doubt, some officers would reside with their men in the bomb-proof; but there was the proper arrangement to leave the full complement of officers with the men in the barracks.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that in the event of such an improbable matter as the bombardment of Spithead, Fort Cumberland would probably be garrisoned, in the absence of the Marine Artillery, by the Militia or Volunteers.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  replied, that the total estimate for the work was £167,000, the amount already voted was
 2033
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, the barracks were not for the Artillery, but for the Marine Artillery in time of peace. If there was a war to-morrow the probability would be that nearly every able-bodied man in the Marine Artillery would be on shipboard.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, the scheme of the Naval Barracks would depend very much upon the scheme now before the Committee upstairs, for if they extended the docks and basins in a northerly direction from the dockyard, it would ' be desirable to place the barracks in some place more contiguous to them.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, it was principally a Vote for what was required for the preparation of the Pest; House Fields.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that there were two distinct proposals for extending the dockyard accommodation at Portsmouth—one the reclaiming a part of the harbour for the purpose of making basins and docks, and the other by adapting for Government purposes a large tract, of waste land that was called the Pest House Fields, lately the property of the War Department, but which had been given up to the Admiralty. That land would require walling round, the construction of tramways, and preparations for the stacking of timber, and the sum of £7,500 asked for in these Estimates was mainly required for those purposes, though a small portion of it would he required for buying the plant for the purposes of what might be called the great sea extension of the dockyard; but as that was now under the consideration of a Committee upstairs, he need not
 2029
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  wished to know whether, supposing it to be inexpedient to alter the plan of the officers' and men's quarters, as far as it had gone, there was not yet time to locate the women's and children's quarters in a place not so very dangerous?
 LORD ROBERT CECIL : In connection with the Question just put by my right hon. Friend (Sir John Pakington), I beg to ask, Whether any information has been received with respect to the movements of the Austrian fleet which has moved northwards; whether it is known that any kind of guarantee or pledge has been given that it shall not go beyond the North Sea; or
 1980
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether any inconvenience has been felt, or any
 1977
 MR. AYRTON  said, it appeared as though the advocates for postponement thought they were the only depositories of the principles of free trade. He should be prepared to discuss the question, not; in the interest of the refiners, but of the public. As far as his intercourse with those gentlemen enabled him to judge, he did not think that they adopted protection in the sense in which it was attributed to them. What they desired was the protection of a just and equal law against a system which would, in fact, give a large bounty to the foreign refiners against the refiners in this country. The principle which they maintained was, that the duty should be levied in such a manner as to make it the interest of no one to refine in one place more than in another. There was abundant evidence to show that it was not the interest, desire, or inclination of the persons who produced raw sugar to introduce it in a refined state. There were some few cultivators who had erected ma-
 2014 s s 2015
 MR. BATHURST  said, that he was a Member of the Committee on Sugar Duties; and as an allusion had been made to the corn duties, with reference to the sugar duties, he begged to remind the House that the question referred to the Committee was not the abolition of the sugar duty, but the question in what form it was most desirable to raise a certain amount of revenue. For himself, he was thoroughly convinced that the demands of justice and the benefit of the public required the maintenance in substance of a graduated scale of duties.
 MR. LAYARD : If the noble Lord will put the Question on the paper I will answer it to-morrow.
 MR. LAYARD : That is so. He was not permitted to pass through the blockade.
 MR. LAYARD  said, Her Majesty's Government had not expressed any opinion upon the communications from Mr. Seward. As the hon. Member was aware, there was no agent of the Confederate States in this country to whom questions could be addressed, and it was not usual to address questions to the agent of a Government which was not recognized. Every endeavour was made by the Government to ascertain whether the document referred to was genuine. As soon however as it was found that the document was a forgery, that fact was stated by the noble Lord (Earl Russell) in another place.
 MR. NEATE  supported the clause as it stood.
 MR. LEATHAM : Sir, in rising to second the Motion of my hon. Friend, I do not rise with any intention or desire of
 1998 ad valorem 1999 "He had on many occasions extracted upwards of 90 per cent of white pure sugar commercially equal to Dutch lumps from Indian khaur." 2000 ex parte "I purchase," says Mr. Gaddesden, "West India sugar paying the 12 s d s d s d 2001 "That the refiner must carry on his manufacture in such a manner that he may obtain clear and bright crystals; which is not to be done if he makes it his principal or only object to get a large percentage of sugar. In this case his goods would be small in the grain, with a dingy look, and saleable only at a low; price." ad valorem ad valorem 2002 s d s 2003
 MR. HADFIELD  also thought the two
 1986
 MR. HUNT  thought it was very inconvenient to have those discussions on this stage of the Bill; but, notwithstanding what had been said by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he was of opinion that it was desirable the House should adopt the Amendment of his hon. and learned Friend. He was astonished that the Law Officers of the Crown should have advised the Government to disregard the decision of a Court of Law, He made no charge
 1985
 MR. HUNT  said, he was perfectly satisfied with the alteration proposed.
 MR. H. ROBERTSON  said, he thought it desirable that some explanation should be given as to the item of £7,500 for "Preparations for Extending Portsmouth Dockyard." It was proposed to take 300 acres altogether for this extension, but it appeared that this item only extended to 100 acres with the possible future extension to 300 acres. Experience suggested that this item would commit us to operations of a much larger nature, and might, perhaps, prove only an instalment of £750,000. He doubted the wisdom of the Admiralty design, and thought that the employment of a competent engineer to report on the design and nature of the works would, in the end, turn out an economical expenditure.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that the question was not one of spinning ropes by machinery, but of spinning yarn by machinery. In 1857 the House voted a sum sufficient for, establishing machinery at Chatham for spinning yarn of certain descriptions, and the result had been that not only had the cost of the machinery been paid for, but £4,000 had been saved to the country besides. Now the Government proposed to purchase new machines for £9,350; and it was demonstrable that in a very few years not only would the cost of the machines be repaid, but a saving to the country of £5,000 a year would be effected. The facts as to the expense, he thought, were conclusive; but other topics had been touched upon by his hon. Friend. He said that the hemp was bruised and crushed by the process. He hardly thought his hon. Friend could have seen the process. He (Mr. Childers) had seen it, and he could assure him that there was no bruising or crushing of any kind. It was true that the loss in weight was greater when yarn is machine-spun. The loss on hand-spun yarn was 2 per cent, and on machine-spun yarn 5 per cent, but the loss was an advantage, as it tended to the strength of the rope. Very careful experiments had been instituted to ascertain the relative strength of the two kinds of rope. At Woolwich the result of a large number of trials was 5 per cent in favour of rope made by machine-spun yarn, and at Devonport and Chatham the result was nearly the same. Then came the question of durability. Among other experiments this was tested on hoard the  Ariadne 2028
 MR. CHILDERS  presumed that the noble Lord would not propose that the women and children should be placed in a different spot from the place where their husbands and fathers were located.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that it would be impossible to stop the works now, which were completed to a considerable extent, without the loss of all the money expended upon them under the sanction of the House during the last three years.
 MR. CHILDERS  remarked, that in the opinion of Mr. M'Clean the deepening of the basin to thirty feet was a matter of the greatest importance.
 MR. CRUM-EWING  said, he had failed to discover in the renewed discussion any fresh argument on either side; he should, therefore, not reply to the speeches that had been made, but would confine himself to a statement of his own opinions. Being himself a large producer of sugar, and having upon his estates the most improved machinery, his own interests would rather lie in the direction of a single duty. As, however, he sat in that House to represent the interests of the community at large, he was bound to say that a uniform duty, without the privilege of refining in bond, would have the result of enhancing the cost of sugar to the consumer. The Committee of 1862 were strongly in favour of permitting refining in bond, but the Customs authorities declared there were extreme difficulties in the way of carrying out that plan. He was convinced, however, that if the Chancellor of the Exchequer would exercise a little pressure upon the Customs authorities those difficulties would be overcome. He believed the proposal of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to be a step in the right direction, and, therefore, he could not support the Amendment of the hon. Member for Stockport.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the hon. Member's proposition having been introduced as an Amendment he was not entitled to a reply.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the Amendment, if carried, would have the effect of stopping the Bill—a result which he believed was not within the contemplation of the hon. Member.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, when the Bill was in Committee he expressed the opinion that the duty was rather high, and urged its reduction. He was glad that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had knocked off 19 s
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he rose to ask Mr. Attorney General for Ireland, Whether it is the intention of the Government to propose any measure to the House during the present Session, with a view to establish more equitable relations between Landlord and Tenant than exist at present in Ireland, and to induce increased exertion on the part of the Tenant by securing to him the results of his outlay and industry?
 MR. WYKEHAM MARTIN  said, he held in his hand the result of fifty experiments, which showed that machine-spun rope was very inferior to hand-spun rope. The statement of the hon. Gentleman had, therefore, taken him by surprise. He would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. WYKEHAM MARTIN  rose, pursuant to notice, to call attention to the manufacture of ropes by machinery in Her Majesty's dockyards. He had been told that neither in efficacy nor in economy was the system of rope making by machinery equal to the old hand-spun manufacture. He had been informed that the machine process of manufacture was precisely the same as that by which an old coat was turned into a new one in some of the clothmaking towns of Yorkshire. If hon. Mem-
 2026
 COLONEL SOMERSET  said, while he held the command of a regiment at Malta, he had given attention to this subject. The Government of Malta in 1858 was requested by the Admiralty to find the best harbour, and it was-, suggested that the Marsa was the only place. The merchant shipping there at the time were uneasy lest the Government should take the French Creek, which was the only place available for them. The question of this French Creek was mooted several times, but the expense was much greater. The dock at the Marsa was for the mercantile marine, and was a first-class one, on the principle of those of the Messrs. Laird. It was extraordinary that they had not a first-class dock in the Mediterranean for the navy; if they were going to war they would not have a dock there at which they could recruit.
 MR. MALINS  said, that by a decision of the Court of Exchequer it had been held that a policy of assurance brought into settlement was not property and was not subject to  ad valorem ad valorem
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated in his Budget speech that the principle on which the duties on sugar should be levied in future was that stated in the Memorial of the Manchester Chamber of Commerce— according to the extractable saccharine value; but this Bill involved an entire departure from that principle. So far from saccharine value only being taken, the third clause of the Bill enacted that "for facilitating the due assessment of the duties on sugar with reference to colour, grain, or saccharine matter, considered collectively," &c. He wished to know how the Chancellor of the Exchequer reconciled that clause with the principle laid down in the Manchester Memorial. Colour, grain, and saccharine matter collectively were now, it appeared, to be the criterion of value, and not saccharine matter only. Reference had been made to the meeting at the London Tavern. Now, having been one of the persons who convened it, he desired to say that that meeting was intended to be a meeting of those who were in favour of an equalization of the duty, and it was convened to consider a common course of action in discussing the question in that House. On arriving at the place, he found that the refiners had stolen a march upon them, occupied the room which others had hired, and conducted the business to their own entire satisfaction; and they afterwards sent him the bill. The meeting, in short, was packed, and could afford no indication whatever of public feeling. It only showed the apprehensions which existed among the refining interest at the progress which had been made hostile to their views. The hem. Member for Shoreham (Mr. Cave) had referred to the small following he (Mr. Crawford) had the other evening into the lobby; but if the division had taken place at an earlier hour he had the best reason to believe his following would have been much larger. He was also quite convinced that if the numbers were on one side the arguments were on
 2012 "O formose puer, nimium ne crede colori."
 MR. WHITBREAD  thought the fort on the Horse Shoe Sand had been left out of sight by the gallant Officer. Did any officer suppose it would be an agreeable position for any vessel to he near that fort for the purpose of shelling the barracks? The barracks were built, in the first place, because the site was an eligible one; and secondly, because it would afford great facilities for practice in gunnery. The gallant Officer was mistaken in supposing that the Admiralty had not com-
 2032
 MR. WHITBREAD  said, that as his lion, and gallant Friend expressed his entire approval of Mr. M'Clean's plans and estimate, it must be a matter of satisfaction to him that he had not succeeded on a former occasion in carrying his Motion for the abandonment of the dock in the Marsa. The hon. and gallant Gentleman (Captain Talbot) had ignored the fact that the excess, which Mr. M'Clean's Report would lead the House to expect, upon the original estimate, had arisen from the proposal to commence new works which were for the benefit of the navy, and had to be undertaken solely at the expense of the Imperial Government. The whole question lay in a nutshell. The question had never been, which was the most desirable site, but which was the possible site? Unless the
 2046
 MR. WHITBREAD : I never said we were pledged to the construction of the dock.
 MR. WHITBREAD : Neither did I imply it.
 MR. WALPOLE  pointed out that a new  ad valorem
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he wished to ask a Question respecting the subject which had been referred to a Select Committee —the seats of the Under Secretaries. The House was aware that the Committee had made a Report, but that there had been great differences of opinion. He wished to know, Whether the Government intend to propose any legislation upon the subject?
 MR. COLLINS  said, it was a monstrous proposition to tax a sum of money  in futuro
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  thought that if there were to be any exemption, it should be for the bond, which was the least valuable instrument.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the duty was imposed on the settlement of foreign and colonial stock, which up to the present time had not been taken cognizance of for the purpose of taxation. That was not the position that property held by a British subject abroad should be placed in, when compared with property of the same description held by him in this country. An anomaly, therefore, existed, which the present Bill proposed to remove.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was sorry he could not accede to the Amendment of his hon. and learned Friend, which did not appear to be supported by any strong argument, either in principle or practice, and would introduce into the law a most invidious and arbitrary exemption. He saw no principle of justice to be urged in favour of the Motion. He would grant that, in the case of a policy where there was no covenant for keeping it alive, it might be fair to exempt it from the  ad valorem 1984 ad valorem s s s
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the penalties would not be recoverable by a private person, but by an officer of a public department subject to be called to account for any abuse of his powers. The same provision had been introduced into the other Revenue Acts, and when a system of penalties generally couched in form of expression pervaded the Revenue law, it was better to adhere to that form rather than introduce other expressions that might perplex the general administration of the Revenue laws. If it were said that all should be considered, that was another question; but he did not think they should consider it in a particular Bill. The hon. Member for Youghal (Mr. Butt) had suggested that the definition of goods, wares, and merchandize in the hands of manufacturers for sale was not complete. His hon. and learned Friend had observed that many accessory materials used in manufactures disappeared in the process, though they contributed to the result of the fully manufactured article. He did not think that there was anything doubtful in the provision; but as the suggestion had been made, he proposed to add words for the purpose of removing any doubt that might exist.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he did not know whether the hon. Gentleman objected to the penalty or not? [Mr. HENLEY: No.] As to the question of allowing a small fee for giving the certificate, he would consider the point and give an answer to it when he proposed to read the Bill a third time.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt) had given notice of an Amendment to this clause requiring
 1982
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, so far as his understanding
 1981 ad valorem
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, that during the recent discussion, a general opinion had been expressed on the part of the representatives of Scotland, that it would be better not to deal partially with any isolated point belonging to the currency or banking; and as no great public interest was involved in going forward with a Bill of so limited a scope, he would defer to that feeling, and not ask the House to proceed further with the Bill.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, there were two questions before the House—the one the merits of a classified as against an uniform scale of duties; and the other, a proposal that the classified scale as now submitted should only continue for a year. He hailed with satisfaction the admission which had been freely made in the course of the debate by those who advocated an uniform duty— namely, that the scale of duties now proposed was an improvement upon the existing one. In that admission lay the answer to some part at least of the objections raised to a classified system of duties. It had been said by the hon. Member who spoke last (Mr. Buchanan) and by others, that the effect of the old scale was to drive out the superior kinds of raw sugar; but that might be not because it was simply a classified scale—that we had yet to learn— but rather because it was a classified scale which might not be adapted to the several elements of the taxable material. The hon. Member who spoke last stated that the present scale favoured the introduction of only two descriptions of sugars—namely, those "equal to brown clayed "and those "not equal to brown clayed," and that it re-
 2019 2020 s d s d s d 2021 2022
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  moved, that in that part of the Bill which regulates the duty on perpetual curacies, the words, "shall not exceed £100," should be inserted instead of the words "shall not amount to £100." The alteration was necessary in consequence of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners having adopted the system of raising the perpetual curacies to £300 a year, which, without this alteration, would be subject to a heavy duty.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  moved an Amendment, reducing the stamp duty upon powers of attorney given by seamen for the receipt of their wages from 20 s s
 MR. BUCHANAN : I feel anxious to explain the reason why I followed the hon. Member for London when he led a "forlorn hope "into the lobby against the proposal of the Chancellor of the Exchequer for a graduated scale of sugar duties, and why I am again prepared to vote with the hon. Member for Stockport, in his proposal to restrict the new scale to one year only. The objection to the graduated scale of sugar duties which has the greatest weight, is that it has tended to the importation of one quality of sugar only, and that of the lowest and worst description. Whoever looks at the history of the sugar trade since the introduction of the graduated duties, cannot fail to perceive that, notwithstanding there are four different rates of duty on sugar, none, or at least small quantities only, have been imported of the two highest grades, and the importations have consisted of qualities not equal to brown clayed, and equal to brown clayed paying respectively 12 s d s d s d s s d 2016 s d 2017 reductio ad absurdum 2018
 MR. BAXTER  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether, after the expression of opinion in the debate on the Bank Notes (Scotland) Bill, he means to proceed with the Bank Acts Bill for Scotland?
 MR. COX  said, that last year a Bill was introduced for the inclosure of a portion of Chigwell parish, and on looking into the matter it was found that it proposed to hand over to the Inclosure Commissioners some 600 or 700 acres of land,
 2024
 SIR BALDWIN LEIGHTON  said, that the Attorney General would get few people to agree with him that it was not the duty of the Government to acquiesce in the decision of a superior Court of Law until it had been revised, and it was a gross act of tyranny to force the subject not only to go to that Court again, but to appeal to the House of Lords. If the Government were discontented with the law as laid down, it was their duty to come to Parliament.
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in reply, said, the general opinion seemed to be that there was a great difficulty as to the construction of the Act of Parliament, and therefore the Government did intend to introduce a Bill to amend it.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  asked what effect this Bill would have upon the stamp duties? It was important that it should be understood whether there was anything in the shape of new taxation in connection with the Bill. He thought the words of one clause widened the area of the Stamp Duty Bill, and that under Schedule C certain things were brought under the operation of the stamp duties which up to the present moment were not so. He therefore hoped the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would state clearly whether there were any new taxes in the Bill; and, if there were any, what those taxes were?
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he also wished to know whether the circumstance of an agent being accredited by Her Majesty's Government and sent to communicate with the Confederate States Government did not amount to an acknowledgment of the Executive power of the Confederate States?
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he wished to know whether an agent had not been despatched from the Havannah to the Confederate States, in order to communicate with the Government at Richmond, and whether that agent was not refused permission to pass through the blockading squadron?
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether Her Majesty's Government have expressed any opinion on the circumstances of Mr. Seward having presented a document to Lord Lyons on the 22nd of December last, which, on the 19th of March, he "felt bound" to tell him he had "just discovered" to be "a forgery;" and whether Her Majesty's Government communicated with the agents of the Confederate States in Europe on the subject, or with the Government of the Confederate States at Richmond, and with what result. He also wished to know, whether Mr. Seward had been called upon to name the gentleman who was the author of the report?
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said no sailor could have recommended the project now before the Committee. It had been stated that the scheme was that of the Governor. No doubt the Governor wished to make things easy; but two Admirals were opposed to the plan. It was time that the House of Commons took up the question. The Committee had been told that the trade of Malta was immense; if so, the dock would always be occupied to the exclusion of Government vessels. The noble Lord said it was intended to send troops to India by way of the Mediterranean. If so, it was the duty of the Government to make the necessary provision.
 SIR JERVOISE JERVOISE  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council of Education, When the results of the experiments in vaccinating sheep, begun in 1862, concluded in 1863, and the Report of which was promised by Easter, 1864, will be laid before Parliament?
 SIR JOHN HAY  denied that the importance of deepening the basin to the extent of thirty feet was admitted. He himself regarded it as a waste of public money.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  wanted to know why the noble Lord withdrew the £5,000, and what were his intentions with regard to the Marsa dock? He wanted to know how he intended to apply the £10,000, for he should object to deepening the north-west basin beyond
 2048
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  was satisfied with the statement of the noble Lord that the dock would not be commenced until Parliament was again consulted.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  supported the Amendment on the ground that if the dock was not to be constructed there would be no necessity for deepening the basin.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  would not, of course, say any more on that point. But the whole subject was an important one. No time ought to be lost in constructing a dock on the French Creek, and abandoning this dock on the Marsa, which was condemned by all the authorities. [" No, no Hear, hear!"] He wished to ask the noble Lord what was their position at that moment? He did not understand from the noble Lord how they stood with regard to this Vote. What was the intention of the Admiralty in withdrawing the £5,000? Were they to understand that the construction of the dock on the Marsa was abandoned for this year?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : The hon. Gentleman implied it.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  thought there were passages in the report of Mr. M'Clean which did not bear out the interpretation which the hon. Gentleman put upon it. Hon. Gentlemen on his side of
 2047
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I beg, Sir, to ask my noble Friend the Secretary of the Admiralty, Whether it is true that the Channel fleet has been moved from Portland to the Downs; and, if not, whether they are under orders to proceed thither? I wish next to ask, whether the noble Lord is in a position to say that the ships constituting the Channel fleet have been completed with respect to their coals, provisions, and other stores? I also beg to ask the noble Lord whether the large iron ships of the Channel fleet have been into dock since their return from their winter cruise in the Atlantic?
 SIR ROBERT PEEL , in reply, said, it was not the intention of the Government to introduce any measure of the nature alluded to by the hon. Gentleman,
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  thought the two cases were in  parimateriâ
 MR. CAVE  said, that having taken a somewhat active part in the Committee on the Sugar Duties, he desired to say a few words in opposition to the Motion which had been submitted to the House. He would be as short as possible, and avoid figures, which could not be tested in a debate; and if the subject were somewhat dry, and indeed scarcely intelligible to those who had no occasion to acquire a special knowledge of the details, he at least was not responsible for its having been forced a second time upon unwilling listeners. The hon. Member who had introduced this Motion had stated that he had only just given attention to the subject. That he (Mr. Cave) could well imagine. But the question had for a long time occupied the attention of others. According to the evidence of some of the witnesses before the Committee, this agitation arose from the dissatisfaction of certain wholesale grocers at their province being invaded by the refiners, who deprived them of the monopoly of supplying the retail trade. The fact was that a very great change had come over the taste of the great body of consumers, and large classes, who formerly never dreamt of using refined sugar, now did so habitually, owing chiefly to its increased variety and cheapness, and, perhaps, in some degree, to the publication some years ago in the  Lancet acari 2004 2005 dignus vindice nodus The Times 2006 " Vietrix causa Diis placuit, sed victa Catoni." s s s s d 2007 ad valorem 2008 prima facie s s standards 2009
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  said, that he should have divided the Committee against the whole Vote if he had seen the barracks sooner. The officers' quarters were unroofed.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  rose to call attention to the situation of the new Marine Artillery barracks at Eastney. It was necessary that particular attention should be paid to them in connection with the enormous sums laid out at Portsmouth for the fortifications there, and he regretted that the noble Lord at the head of the Government, whom he held responsible for that expenditure, was not in his place in the House. The barracks at Eastney were erected in the very eye of the Channel, in going into Portsmouth Harbour, so that: any ship attacking Portsmouth must fire into them. He feared there had been no harmony or concerted action between the I Admiralty and the Defence Committee in: carrying out those works. An enormous sum had been voted for fortifications at Portsmouth, and they had been asked to vote a large sum of money for the construction of barracks in a most untenable position. No doubt it might be said this was the only position where the Marine Artillery could practise the large guns; and that might or might not be true; but
 2030
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  inquired, in the event of the Marine Artillery now in Fort Cumberland going into ships, what; officers and men would then garrison that fort?
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  objected to the provision with respect to the mode in which penalties should be recovered. The clause was so worded that the penalty might be recovered even for an unintentional error.
 MR. COWPER  said, in reply, that the Return ordered in July, 1863, had not yet been made, but he was informed that it was nearly completed, and would speedily be laid before the House.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether any decision has been arrived at by the War Department and Treasury as to the payment of Rates and Taxes by Officers of the Army occupying Government Houses in the performance of their duties?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that no decision had yet been arrived at. It was a question in which the Admiralty were at least as much interested as the War Department, and it had been intended that the hon. Member for Halifax (Mr. Stansfeld) should confer with some officer of the War Department with a view to forwarding a joint recommendation to
 2051
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he would give notice that he should take an early opportunity of moving an Address to the Crown praying that all Officers of Chelsea Hospital should be exempted from the payment of rates and taxes charged upon them for their residence in the Hospital for the due performance of their duties.
 MR. COWPER , in reply, said, the re-introduction of the Bill for the purchase of the site, of which he had charge last Session, must depend upon the introduction of another Bill for supplying the funds, which would be introduced by another Member of the Government. He was therefore unable to give the information asked for by the hon. Gentleman.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  rose to move as an Amendment—
 2071 "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the operation of the laws relating to capital punishment." 2072 primâ facie 2073 2074 2075 "There can be no doubt from the evidence that the murder was deliberate and premeditated.… Sir George Grey feels that it would be of most dangerous consequences to society if such provocation as the prisoner received were held sufficient to exempt a man from the penalty attached by the law to deliberate and premeditated murder; and therefore he regrets to be compelled to come to the conclusion that it would be inconsistent with his duty to recommend a commutation of the sentence." "I think it is most important that the administration of the law should not only be right, but that there should exist a general impression in the public mind of the country that it is right and just; and especially in regard to capital punishment is it undesirable that it should be inflicted where there prevails a general, I may almost say a universal, feeling that there were circumstances in the case which rendered that course inexpedient."—[3  Hansard "I mention this to show that a case may be quite clear, and no ground for a commutation of the sentence may arise from any doubts as to the facts, and yet if you mean to retain capital punishments at all, it may not be expedient under some circumstances to let the law take its course. I think that capital punishments ought to be maintained, but I feel that they cannot be maintained if you stretch the law to the extreme, and execute every sentence without regard to its effect upon public opinion."—[3  Hansard 2076 "Unless the country was made to understand that entire confidence could be placed in the decisions on these questions, there would be some danger of our being forced to abandon a punishment which he believed to be necessary to the interests of society."—[3  Hansard 2077
 MR. GILPIN  said, he did not intend to enter upon a defence of the hon. Member for Birmingham, who was well able to defend himself, but it was not a fact that his hon. Friend had condemned the Judges. All he said was that they were not better able to decide questions of this sort than other enlightened and intelligent men. The hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Newdegate) had talked of the democratic tendencies of the hon. Member for Birmingham; but that objection, if it could be accounted one, could not be brought against Dr. Lushington, who, in 1840, submitted a Motion for the abolition of capital punishments, which Motion was supported by the present President of the Poor Law Board and other distinguished Members. It was not for him to pretend to express the opinions of the Government, but upon the Treasury bench there were, besides the right hon. Gentlemen whom he had just mentioned, the President of the Board of Trade, the Judge Advocate, the Vice President of the Board of Trade, and several others, who had uniformly given their support not merely to an inquiry but to a Motion for the immediate abolition of capital punishments. No one could venture to say that the Judges were the best fitted to be upon the proposed Commission, far less to be the sole members of it. He could not forget that in 1811 the Recorder of London objected to the punishment of death being done away with for the crime of pocket-picking; that in 1813 the Lord Chancellor regretted the removal of the capital penalty for the offence of stealing property to the amount of 5 s 2109
 MR. GILPIN  said it was.
 MR. GILPIN : Charles Dickens.
 MR. GILPIN : The hon. and learned Gentleman may say that Mr. Dickens is no authority—some people may say that the hon. and learned Gentleman is no authority. I well recollect the late Daniel O'Connell relating in Exeter Hall, in 1844, the touching account of three brothers—
 "I myself (said he) defended three brothers of the name of Cremming within the last ten years. They were indicted for murder. I sat at my window, as they passed by, after sentence had been pronounced. There was a large military guard taking them back to gaol, positively forbidden to allow any communication with the three unfortunate youths. But their mother was there, and she, armed with the strength of her affection, broke through the guard. I saw her clasp her eldest son, who was but twenty-two years of age; I saw her hang on her second, who was not twenty; I saw her faint, when she clung to the neck of the youngest son, who was but eighteen—and, I ask, what recompense could be made for such agony? They were executed—and—they were innocent." "I think," said Sheriff Wilde in his examination (Report 1836, p. 101), "many innocent persons have suffered. I think that if the documents at the Home Office are examined, many instances will be found in which—by exertions of former sheriffs—the lives of many persons ordered for execution have been saved." 2110 "Though I believe undoubtedly the sheriffs of London are, in general, conspicuous for an active, humane, and correct discharge of their duty, they have not all, and cannot have, the means of bringing to the investigation of such subjects the same facility and the same unsparing exertion that Mr. Wilde afforded while he was sheriff.… It is impossible to speak in too high terms of the zeal, humanity, unsparing labour and expense which he bestowed upon those occasions, but the result satisfied me (says Sir Frederick Pollock) that the parties were in several instances guiltless of any crime, and in all, the cases were such as did not justify capital punishment; and Sir Robert Peel, after much labour in the investigation, was of the same opinion.… My impression is that several of these cases were cases of perfect and entire innocence, and that the others were cases of innocence as to the capital part of the charge. I had frequent communication (he adds) with Mr. Wilde on them as they proceeded." 2111
 MR. PAGET  said, the same principle was to be found in the law for the rich as for the poor on this subject, and it was that a debtor should in the former case be made responsible in his estate, and in the other in his skill and labour. The Bill would do harm to the working classes
 2121
 MR. T. BARING  said, he could not but express his astonishment that a Bill upon a subject of such vast importance should not have been introduced by the Government. He could not help thinking that the President of the Board of Trade ought to have made himself responsible for this Bill, if the Government thought it was a measure that ought to be passed by the Legislature, and that it should not have been left in the hands of a private individual. The Bill was one of such importance for good or evil that he could not
 2122 2123 2124
 MR. T. BARING  proposed the insertion of words requiring all such partnerships to be distinguished by the addition of the word "limited" to the name of the firm in all its dealings and transactions.
 MR. T. BARING  would substitute the word "registered" for "limited," but he must divide the House if his Amendment was opposed.
 MR. LINDSAY  thought that when a certain firm changed their mode of conducting business the fact ought to be notified to the public.
 MR. T. BARING  remarked that if, as stated by the hon. Member for Birmingham, the Amendment would prove fatal to the Bill, one could only infer that the object of the measure was deception.
 MR. DENMAN  said, the Amendment was altogether beyond the scope of the Bill.
 MR. DENMAN  thought the principle of the Bill was open to grave doubt. The Judge would have to act upon the mere statement of the debtor himself, whose interest it would be to keep him in ignorance of the principal creditors, who were entitled to be present at his examination. He had had some experience as a County Court Judge, and he could not help observing that the Bill assumed that that was not the law which was the law already, because no Judge could commit a man to prison unless he was satisfied upon evidence that lie had the means of paying his debts. He did not see what more could be fairly done in favour of the defendant. He did not think that at present County Court Judges were too ready to act in favour of the creditor against the debtor, and he saw no occasion for the Bill.
 MR. DENMAN  said, that in seconding the Motion, he would claim the indulgence of the House for a few minutes, as he could speak from considerable experience in criminal courts, both as a prosecuting counsel and as counsel retained to defend prisoners. He did not intend to argue this Question on the ground that the State had not a perfect power and a perfect right, if it was
 2065 2066 "Between the acting of a dreadful thing And the first motion, all the interim is Like a phantasma or a hideous dream." "And the state of man, Like to a little kingdom, suffers then The nature of an insurrection." 2067 2068 2069 2070
 MR. DENMAN  desired to explain. He had the opportunity of knowing that the reason why his father abstained from expressing an opinion was that, as a judge, daily called upon to execute the law, his views might have been quoted as a reason why the law should not be carried into effect.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Why the Return ordered by the House on 24th of July, 1863, on the Motion
 2052
 MR. AYRTON  said, the object of the Bill was to make the law for the working man the same as the law for the man of higher rank. At present, a man might accumulate debts to any extent, and yet obtain a discharge; whereas the poor man, whose liabilities were under £20, was denied a release on the same terms. It was understood that the Government intended to introduce a Bill to rectify this anomaly; but as they had not done so, his hon. and learned Friend opposite deserved credit for bringing forward this measure. The House of Commons, which had made a special law as to debt for itself, ought to consider the hardships of the poorer classes in this respect. The fact was, the County Courts were greatly abused. The gaols were filled with poor people on account of small debts, while a special emissary was sent from the Bankruptcy Court to bring out any man who might have incurred vast debts and swindled the world from one end to the other.
 MR. AYRTON  hoped the hon. Gentleman would give an intelligent explanation of the object of the Bill. He wanted to know what the hon. Member understood by a "reasonable cause."
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, When the Bill for the Concentration of the Courts of Justice which, on the 22nd of April, he stated would be brought forward in a few days, will he introduced by the Government?
 MR. NEATE  then moved, as a substantive Resolution—
 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that she will be graciously pleased to issue a Royal Commission to inquire into the provisions and operation of the Laws under which the Punishment of Death is now inflicted in the United Kingdom, and the manner in which it is inflicted; and to report whether it is desirable to make any alteration therein."
 MR. NEATE  said, that as the forms of the House precluded him from moving the Amendment of which he had given notice (for an Address for the Appointment of a Royal Commission to inquire into the provisions and laws under which the punishment of Death is now inflicted), he desired to show that the terms of the Motion of his hon. Friend (Mr. Ewart), or of the noble Lord, would not give as comprehensive a scope to the inquiry as the circumstances warranted. The subject of inquiry ought to be not only the law as regarded murder, but also as regarded treason, which had been disposed of in a rather summary way as an offence not likely to occur. They had been so much accustomed to hear of the crime of murder, that it had come to be believed that it rested on the common law, without any reference to statute law. But this was not so, and the Criminal Law Commissioners, who had gone very fully into the subject, had pointed out how the Judges had departed from the plain meaning of the statute inflicting capital punishment, and suggested that there should be a better definition of the crime of murder, and they said that, the construction put upon the words  malice prepense 2082
 MR. NEWDEGATE : The House has just listened to the eloquent and carefully prepared speech of the hon. Member for Birmingham, and I think that the public will be a little surprised to hear that the hon. Member has declared that this country is one of the most barbarous in the world. [Mr. BRIGHT: I said in its laws.] I can only refer to a note which I made when the hon. Member was speaking. It was a surprising announcement to me, for, in common with a large number of Her Majesty's subjects, I have been accustomed to believe that in England we enjoy a greater amount of personal freedom, a higher state of civilization, and a greater degree of personal safety than any other nation in the world. The hon. Member would have us doubt these facts, and upon what grounds? Upon this ground—that our law is unduly severe. Well, if that severity is necessary to the personal freedom, to the political freedom, and to the civilization which we enjoy—a freedom and a civilization enjoyed by a greater variety of classes, by persons in a greater variety of circumstances than are to be found in any other nation in the world—I am inclined to believe that the very severity of the law tends to the emancipation of the community; and I also feel this, that such is the pressure exercised by a certain section in favour of the mitigation of capital sentences, that it did high honour to the hon. Member for Southampton (Mr. Rose),
 2105 2106 2107
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would beg to inquire of the Home Secretary, in the absence of the noble Lord the First Minister, Whether an Austrian Squadron has not arrived in the Downs and other of our harbours; and whether the Channel Fleet has not been ordered round to the Downs; and, if so, whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to allow the Austrian ships of war to proceed to the Baltic or the North Sea without being accompanied by the Channel Fleet?
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  objected to the word registered, as putting him in mind of the shirt collars and trousers that were constantly advertised. [ Laughter
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  reminded the House that it was impossible by this or any other measure to make people com-
 2127
 LORD FERMOY  thought there could not be the slightest objection to the Bill, and he believed the licensed victuallers as a body were favourable to it. The provisions could only apply to a very small minority of the licensed victuallers of the metropolis, as by far the greatest number of them closed before that time. The Bill would no doubt be productive of great good.
 LORD FERMOY  concurred with the hon. Baronet. It appeared to him the hon. Member for Derby (Mr. Bass) wished to abolish street music altogether. [Mr. BASS: No!] Then why ask for further powers than at present existed? If this mode of legislation was adopted because some persons had a private grievance, they would by-and-by have some hon. Member proposing a Bill to put a stop to the noise occasioned by brewers' drays and beer barrels as they passed through the metropolis.
 MR. CARDWELL  replied, that the Draft of Instructions intended to be sent to the Governors of our Colonies with reference to their treatment of belligerent cruisers had been submitted to the Law Officers of the Crown. The object of those Instructions was to give clear and precise directions to the Governors for their future guidance so far as the nature of the case would admit. As soon as the Instructions had been received back from the Law Officers, and approved by Her Majesty's Government, they would be laid upon the table of the House.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, in reply, that within the last few days he had received from the Governor of the Hudson's Bay Company a letter and enclosures which the Hudson's Bay Company had received from their Governor at the Red River Settlement. It appeared from these documents that the Commander of the United States forces upon the frontier requested permission from the Governor of the Red River Settlement to pursue and capture Sioux Indians who might cross the frontier. That permission was granted by the Governor of the Red River Settlement. The cause assigned for the request by the American Commander was to prevent the murder of women and children in the American territories, and the cause assigned by the Governor for the permission
 2055
 MR. GOSCHEN  defended the clause as it stood.
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, that so far from the Bill enabling a speculative capitalist to take shelter behind a man of straw, under its operation the whole world would know the amount put into a partnership by the capitalist, and to the extent of their capital the partners would be able to obtain credit. It was said that in these cases the profits were unlimited, while the loss would be limited to the amount invested; but the profits would also be limited, for the whole trading community would be aware through the registry of the credit to which the partnership was entitled. Unscrupulous people were at present able to obtain much more credit than they would when a register was kept through which creditors would know the amount of the investments, and, therefore, under a system of limited partnership credit also would be limited. The present system was much more open to the charge than that which the Bill would introduce. The object of the Bill was to remove what was really a restriction upon trade, and to establish a natural state of things—to establish perfect freedom of contract; and the onus of showing that it would lead to excessive credit rested with the opponents of the measure. It was not the business of the House to prevent or stimulate enterprise or speculation, but it was their business to clear the field so that individuals might take their own course.
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether he is prepared to inform the House of the nature of the Instructions to be issued to the Colonial Authorities respecting the treatment to be pursued towards belligerent cruisers entering our harbours?
 MR. PAULL  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether his attention has been drawn to a Bill intituled "A Bill to amend the Constitution, Practice, and Procedure of the Courts of the Island of Jersey," purporting to deal with the Judicial Establishments and Taxation of the said Island, and also to ask whether such Bill has been introduced with the concurrence and approval of Her Majesty's Government?
 MR. PAULL  said, he thought the right hon. Gentleman had not answered his Question, whether the Bill proposing to deal with the Judicial Establishments of Jersey had been introduced with his concurrence.
 MR. PAULL , in moving the second reading of the Bill, said, its object was to extend the benefit of the present bankruptcy law to debtors under the sum of £20. As the law now stood debtors of small amounts, who came under the jurisdiction of the County Courts, had not the power of obtaining protection and final discharge from their liabilities; on the contrary, they were liable to be imprisoned again and again for the same debt. This was very frequently the case, and the number actually imprisoned in 1861 was 8,625, and 9,373 in 1862. The amounts for which these persons were committed to prison were sometimes ludicrously small. One man in Whitecross Street prison was committed five times for a debt the original amount of which was 8 s d s d 2120
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he was quite satisfied that if the Committee adopted Mr. T. Baring's suggestion they might as well get rid of the Bill altogether. If it were insisted that every firm under the provisions of the Bill should put on its signboard, as on its invoices, the word "registered" or "limited," that would interfere to a great extent, and probably altogether frustrate the objects of the Bill. The business of a firm affected its connections, and no one else; and those interested would take care to make the necessary inquiries. People in business were not so fast asleep as not to be alive to their interests in such matters. He hoped his hon. Colleague would not consent to the Amendment. He would advise him, in fact, not to go on with the Bill if such a proposition were carried.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he thought the right hon. Gentleman might answer the Question more distinctly. The Question was whether out of the House—at the Home Office—the right hon. Gentleman had expressed his approval of the Bill.
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, I shall not, after the discussion which has taken place, and which has been, I think, almost on one side, take up the time of the House by making a speech. But the right hon. Gentleman (Sir George Grey) has said something which I am obliged to contest to some extent. He has quoted the opinions of Judges upon this question, and he has laid, I think, more stress upon those opinions than they generally deserve. I think, if there is one thing more certain than another, it is this—that every amelioration of the criminal code of this country has been carried against the opinion of the majority of the Judges. And I may on this point quote the opinion of an eminent Irish Judge, who, I believe, is still living, and with whom I had some conversation in Ireland some fifteen years ago. The conversation turned on this very question. He said, "Beware of the Judges. If Parliament had acted on the opinion of the Judges we should have been hanging now for forgery, for horse stealing, and for I know not how many other offences for which capital punishment has long been abolished." Now the right hon. Gentleman proposes to have a Commission, as I understand, instead of a Committee. There was an inconsistency in his speech I thought, on that point; for at first he seemed to say that the question, whether capital punishment should be continued or be abolished, was not one which a Com-
 2093 2094 2095 2096 "Experience shows that the frequent repetition of capital punishment has never yet made men better. If, therefore, I can show that in the ordinary state of society the death of a citizen is neither useful nor necessary, I shall have pleaded the cause of humanity with success." "When the laws hear quiet and peaceful sway, and under a form of government approved by the united voice of the nation, in such a state there can be no necessity for taking away the life of a citizen." "We must punish crime without imitating it. The punishment of death is rarely anything but a useless barbarity." "It will appear that the capital crimes committed during the last seven years (1804 and 1811) with no capital executions, have in proportion to the population not been much more than a third of those committed in the first seven years (1756 to 1763) when forty-seven persons suffered death." "The intermediate periods lead to the same results," 2097 2098 "1. The death penalty was abolished in this State in the year 1852. 2. I do not think its abolition has had any effect upon the security of life. 3. Is the law against the death penalty sustained by the public opinion of the State? Very decidedly. 4. Are convictions and punishments more certain than before the change was made? I think they are. 5. What is the punishment now inflicted on such criminals as were formerly punished with death? Imprisonment for life at hard labour. I have conversed with one supreme Judge, State attorney, and warden of the State prison, and they support my own established views upon the subject." "Our present able Chief Justice says:—'Although disposed to the present law when passed, I am equally opposed to a change in it until the experiment has been tried long enough to satisfy us that it has failed. I am clearly of opinion that the present state of the law is sustained by public opinion, and I believe it will continue to be until it is satisfactorily shown that crimes against life have been considerably increased in consequence of it. My observation fully justifies me in saying that conviction for murder is far more certain now in proper eases than when death was the punishment of it.' " 2099 Executive Office, Lancing, March 23, 1864. "1. The death penalty for murder was abolished March 1, 1847, when the revised statutes of 1846 went into effect. 2. Life is not considered less secure than before; murders are probably less frequent in proportion to population. Twenty years ago the population of the State was 300,000, and we have now a population of about 900,000. Then it was chiefly agricultural, and now we have mines of copper, iron, coal, &c., bringing into proximity dissimilar classes, and increasing the probabilities of frequent crime. Before the abolition of the death penalty murders were not unfrequent, but convictions were rarely or never obtained. It became the common belief that no jury could be found (the prisoner availing himself of the common law right of challenge) which would convict. Since the abolition there have been in seventeen years thirty-seven convictions. 3. There can be no doubt that public opinion sustains the present law and is against the restoration of the death penalty. 4. Conviction and punishment are now much more certain than before the change was made. Murder requires a greater amount of proof than any other crime, and it is found practically that a trial for murder excites no very unusual interest." "5. The punishment now is solitary confinement at hard labour for life. Since 1861 this class of prisoners have been employed as other prisoners, as it was found difficult to keep them at work in cells without giving them tools, and there was danger of their becoming insane. The reform has been successfully tried, and is no longer an experiment." "The evil tendency of public executions, the great aversion of many to the taking of life rendering it almost impossible to obtain jurors from the more intelligent portion of the community, the liability of the innocent to suffer so extreme a penalty and be placed beyond the reach of the pardoning power, and the disposition of courts and juries not to convict, fearing the innocent might suffer, convinced me that this relic of barbarism should be abolished. The death penalty was repealed in 1853. No legislation has since re-established it, and the people find themselves equally secure, and the public more certain than before. The population in 1850 was 305,000; in 1860 it was 775,000. With this large increase of population we might expect a large increase of criminal cases, but this does not appear to be the case." 2100 2101 "A fortnight ago I preached a condemned sermon to about twenty criminals, and every one of them, I had good grounds to believe, died penitent. Twenty more must die nest week." 2102 2103 2104
 MR. HENNESSY  rose to put a Question to the Secretary of State for the Colonies, and in order to make the subject intelligible to the House it was necessary he should make a brief statement of the circumstances. He held in his hand a letter from a respectable gentleman a Member of the Legislative Assembly of Canada, dated Quebec, April 16. That gentleman stated, that at a meeting of the Governor and Council of the Red River Settlement, held on the 12th of March, application was made by the Governor to the Council to permit Major Hatch, the
 2054 "The Governor further stated that he had received a message from the main body of the Sioux, on the Missouri, asking his advice as to making peace with the Americans, and hinting at a desire to visit the settlement in spring. He had returned an answer advising the Sioux to make peace with the Americans, or be prepared for a prosecution of the war with renewed vigour next summer." "I have no hesitation in complying with your request, stipulating only that in the event of active operations taking place within the settlements, you will communicate with the authorities and take such measures as will prevent bloodshed or violence in the houses or enclosures of the settlers, should any of the Sioux Indians take refuge there." "A most extraordinary circumstance has lately occurred at Red River which must surely arouse the indignation of the British public, as it is the first time that British territory has been put into the occupation, under the protectorate it may be said, and hence at the mercy of a foreign soldiery. The cool reservation that the wretched savages are not to be butchered in the houses or enclosures of the inhabitants is meant, I suppose, as an apology for the outrage."
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he quite agreed with his hon. Friend the Member for Huntingdon that this was a subject which the Government ought to have grappled with, and not have left in the hands of a private Member. It was very true that the Government accepted the principle of limited liability; and they had adopted it in respect of this Bill, for they had left a subject of immense importance to the commercial world to be dealt with by a private Member until it had passed through all the most important stages. He could not think that the right hon. Gentleman had met the objections that had been raised. The real question at issue was, whether it was right to introduce into the commercial policy of this country a new principle, which gave to the unprincipled capitalist the opportunity of speculating with perfect impunity behind a man of straw—a medium through whom he could speculate to any extent, while he himself was shielded from all responsibility. That was an entirely new principle in our commercial legislation, and it had no parallel in what had been done in our legislation with regard to public companies, to whom the protection of liability was applied because it was only by that means we could get a number of individuals to combine and carry out those great works by which this country was distinguished. There was no analogy be-
 2126
 MR. HUBBARD  thought the Amendment would give the  coup de grace
 MR. LOCKE  said, his hon. Friend (Mr. Paget) had been using the same arguments they had heard so often when they were reforming the law of bankruptcy. For his part he thought the labouring man at present got too much credit, not himself alone, but his wife, when they were away at work, through tallymen and others. It was the business of those who gave credit to look after the probability of getting their money without the law helping them by sending the debtor to gaol. The object of the Bill was to apply to small debtors the same provisions of law that were now applicable to debtors of a superior class. He thought the poor man had as good a right to the privilege of "white-washing" as the rich man, and therefore he thought this was a just and necessary measure. He trusted the Bill would now be road a second time.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he was sorry the hon. Member had not been more ample in his explanation. He would like to know what class of music the Bill referred to. Was the hon. Gentleman going to legislate in the interests of correct musical taste or in the spirit of Professor Babbage? He thought it would have been better to introduce a Bill that would cover the whole case, and send it to a Select Committee.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he never heard a speech which so conclusively proved the case against capital punishment as that of the hon. Baronet. Every one who had studied the question knew that public executions had a brutalising effect upon the minds of those who witnessed them. Those Gentlemen who were in favour of private executions conceded half the argument against the punishment of death, because they admitted the injurious and demoralizing effect of executions in public. There was a time when stealing a piece of cloth was punished with death; but society had gone on very well since that was abolished. There had been much fewer forgeries since that crime ceased to be punished with death, and he believed that a still further beneficial effect would be produced by the entire abolition of the punishment. He thought the Government had acted wisely in consenting to a Commission, and he hoped that the present Parliament would, in its declining months, pass an Act on the subject which, while it satisfied the best feelings of the country, would do no injury to the interests of society.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that this was properly a matter of police, and the most rational way of dealing with it would be to give the magistrate power to determine what was a nuisance and what was not. The police ought to be armed with the power of protecting society in this matter, and he would put it to the Home Secretary whether that was not the rational mode of meeting the difficulty. A lady or gentleman might be very ill, and a man would come there with a loud organ, knowing that his music would be bought off and intending to come back. If the Legislature would give the police magistrates the power to regulate the street music by means of the police, they would do much for the quiet and comfort of the metropolis.
 MR. ROEBUCK : Was this an English case?
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House ought to have been spoken twenty years ago. He had charged upon the administration of justice that it put to death people who were not guilty. That was not true. Could anybody assert that anybody had been hanged within the last ten years who was believed to be not guilty of the crime for which he suffered? He allowed that heretofore the administration of justice in this country had been a bloody administration; but now, so great had become the regard for human life, the tendency was entirely in the opposite direction. The Home Secretary would undoubtedly say that he had more difficulty in hanging a man now than former Secretaries had had in transporting one. What were the objects of punishment? The first object of punishment was no doubt reformation. Hanging he allowed did not reform a man; but the next object was the putting out of danger the society in which a murderer lived. Hanging certainly did that. The removing of a man so dangerous to society—and very cheaply—was a thing to be considered by society. The murderer was hung, and there was an end of him. Society was in no more danger from him. The House was not chargeable with a mawkish sentimentality; but if a man killed his own mother, people would be found to get up petitions to save him from death. He had no sympathy whatever with those petitions. He wished to see a man of that sort removed out of life—he had no hesitation in saying that. It was mock sentimentality to pray for that man's life. He had not thought of his mother's life, and why should we think of his? Then came the question, would hanging him do any good? We could not reform him—there was an end of him; and what injury had been done to mankind? The hon. Member for Birmingham had spoken with his usual eloquence to-night, and no one felt his power more or listened to him with more admiration than he did; but still, as a practical legislator, he was bound to see what was best to be done for the advantage of society. He wished to vote with the hon. Member, and, as far as possible, to do away with the punishment of death; but lie was bound to consider the advantage of society. The hon. Member
 2112
 MR. ROEBUCK : He is no authority at all.
 MR. ROEBUCK : Who is the authority for it?
 MR. SOMES  said, the Bill was not the same as the Bill of last year, as he now proposed to allow public-houses to be open on Sundays from one to two and from eight to nine.
 MR. BASS  said, he had forborne to go at length into the subject, because on a former occasion he had explained his views to the House, and it was unusual for hon. Gentlemen when introducing a Bill upon well known matters to take up the time of hon. Members. In the Metropolitan Police Act "reasonable cause" was understood in different senses, and he had been informed that the magistrates themselves desired that what was meant by the words should be more strictly defined. He was also given to understand that the Commissioners of Police were in favour of some such measure as he sought to introduce, and the police felt themselves placed in this difficulty—that if a street musician refused to go away when desired, they could not take him into custody — they could only deal with him by summons. What he aimed at was to give the police power to arrest musicians who, upon receiving notice, refused to go away, and he held this to be "reasonable cause" that any person should be engaged in some serious occupation which required to be carried on without interruption.
 MR. BASS  moved for leave to bring in a Bill for the better regulation of Street Music within the Metropolitan Police Dis-
 2117
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that this was not the first appearance of the Bill before Parliament; and the Government had not thought it incumbent on them to interfere. The measure had received great attention from the hon. Member for Birmingham, and had been investigated last Session before a Select Committee; it had passed last year through all its stages, and had failed in the other House only he believed in consequence of the lateness of the Session. This Bill was mainly the same as that of last Session, and although there might be some small changes in the clauses they did not at all affect the principle. Some changes might be necessary in the Bill for the security of the commercial world, but these could all be effected in Committee; but the principle, which was that of limited liability, was already recognized and established. He quite agreed with the hon. Member for Huntingdon as to the importance of not introducing any measure which was calculated to shake the foundations of commercial credit in this country; but he drilled that the Bill would have any such effect. On the contrary, he believed its effect would be to place the creditor in a better position than he was at present. The principle of the Bill was, that any person might lend his money, receiving a share of the profits, without thereby becoming a general partner. At present, if he lent his money at interest, and the firm became bankrupt, he came in as a creditor;
 2125
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  thought the Amendment was quite unnecessary.
 MR. BUCHANAN  said, he could not support the Bill, because he believed that its effect would be to place within available reach of the unscrupulous capitalist a powerful machinery for fraud. The registry would not show the real amount of  bonâ fide
 MR. BUCHANAN  said, the argument was that the great use of the Bill would be to enable young men to be supported by capitalists. This assumed that there would be no capital in the hands of the general partner, and that the only capital would be contributed by a person whose liability was limited. He thought that it was necessary to attach a mark to such a firm, but he suggested that, instead of the word "limited," the word "registered" should be employed.
 MR. W. EWART , in reply, said, he would gladly accept the proposal of the Home Secretary that a Royal Commission should be appointed. He could not concur in the suggestion that the Judges should form part of the Commission. He felt confident that the right hon. Baronet would appoint a good Commission, composed of fair-minded and untrammelled men, and he would therefore withdraw his Motion.
 MR. W. EWART  rose to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the expediency of maintaining the punishment of death. It is now nearly a quarter of a century that the opponents of capital punishment in this country have contended for its repeal. They hold it to be a great question of religion and civilization. But, in a more practical point of view, and in one less connected with feeling and opinion, they support it, because they believe
 2056 "The practice (says Lord Hobart) really is, not to punish with death criminals who are murderers in the sight of the law, but to select a few such criminals for execution; and the fate of a murderer depends, not on any fixed rite of penal legislation, but on the idiosyncrasy of a jury or of a Minister of the Crown." The Globe. The Globe The Standard The Standard 2057 2058 2059 Révue Chrétienne Globe "The extinguishers themselves take fire." 2060 qui nil molilur ineptè "If I quench thee, thou flaming minister, I can again thy former light restore." 2061 Malade Imaginaire medicandi, purgandi saigniandi occidendi 2062 "Pomps of death, and theatres of blood." vis inertia 2063 La Pena di Morte sarà abolita "No execution now takes place in Maine, and capital punishment has been abolished by law in Alabama, Michigan, and Louisiana without any evil results." Giornale per l'Abolizione delta Pena di Morte 2064 "Sovereign law, the State's collected will O'er thrones and globes elate, Sits empress, crowning good, repressing ill."
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  thought that the objection of the hon. Member (Mr. T. Baring) would be met by Clauses 9 and 13.
 MR. MITFORD  said, he would second the Amendment, because he thought it would open a much wider range of inquiry than the original Motion. They must all admire the spirit which animated the hon. and learned Member for Tiverton (Mr. Denman) during his speech; but, at the same time, as long as human nature was
 2078 2079
 MR. ALDEEMAN ROSE  said, as the speeches had hitherto been all on one side, he thought something should be said on behalf of the public. As far as he could judge, the tendency of the speeches they had just heard was simply this—"Murder made easy." Having had some ten years' experience as Commissioner of the Central Criminal Court, he was bound to say that his idea of the conduct of juries was quite different from that of the hon. and learned Member for Tiverton (Mr. Denman). It was his belief that, in the main, juries
 2080 2081
 MR. BAINES  said, in order to remove some misapprehensions that existed, he wished to ask the hon. Member for Hull, Whether the Bill which he proposed to introduce on Friday, is identical with the Bill of last Session?
 SIR FRANCIS CROSSLEY  said, he was sure the House would not put into the scale the cheapness of the process of getting rid of a criminal by hanging him against the value which they attached to human life. He should vote with the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Neate), because he did not believe that capital punishment was agreeable with the merciful character of the Christian dispensation; and he believed it was not so deterrent as other punishments. He quite agreed that the murderer ought to be deprived of the opportunity of repeating his crime; but he should be deterred from doing so by a punishment which, while it did not go so far as to produce insanity, should be effectual for its purpose. He thought that nothing less than a plain command given to us by the Creator himself could justify us in depriving a fellow-creature of life. No doubt civilization had greatly advanced since the days when men were hanged for stealing horses and sheep, and for forgery. Against the advance of civilization in one direction must be set the increase in population; but, on the whole, no doubt these crimes had greatly diminished since capital punishment had been abolished as the penalty for them. The Secretary of State had admitted the necessity for inquiry by saying that if they could show that any other punishment was equally effectual in deterring from crime, he would give up capital punishment. He thought if a mode could be devised whereby they could deter the murderer from committing crime without taking his life, they were bound to adopt that mode; and that
 2113
 SIR FRANCIS CROSSLEY  said, the object of his hon. Friend was this—that where street music was not wanted, and the musicians refused to go away, they might be handed over to the police. It had come within his own knowledge that where persons were on their death-beds and the musicians were desired to go away, they refused, and the police when called upon said they had no power to interfere. When people paid for their houses they ought to be allowed to live in them in peace and quietness.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  could not understand why the Amendment should be objected to, as the word "registered" was so often repeated in the Bill.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the police might be called upon to remove street musicians not only in the case of illness, but from any other reasonable cause. It was well known that Mr. Babbage alleged, and the magistrates agreed with him, that he was engaged in pursuits which street music was calculated seriously to disturb. The police magistrates, however, sometimes dismissed charges against street musicians if they did not consider the cause of removal reasonable. He was anxious to see the Bill that he might know how the hon. Gentleman defined what was "a reasonable cause;" but until he know what its provisions were, he could not promise his support to it.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  moved for leave to introduce a Bill for further regulating the closing of public-houses and refreshment houses within the Metropolitan Police district. He had stated some time since that it was his intention to bring in a Bill founded upon the representation of the inhabitants of certain parts of the metropolis., that great evils arose from the disorders occasioned by certain licensed victuallers and refreshment houses being kept open all night; and suggesting that if they were compelled to close between the hours of one and four o'clock in the morning, it would tend very much to public order and morality. It was only licensed victuallers' houses and certain refreshment houses licensed to sell wine which might be kept open all night, except Saturday and Sunday nights, beer houses being compelled to close at twelve o'clock; and the effect of this Bill would be to shut these houses on all other nights for three hours during the night. It was but right that he should state that he believed that the great majority of the licensed victuallers closed their houses during these hours, and he had been informed that they were generally perfectly satisfied with the regulations proposed to be enforced by the Bill. If the House consented to the introduction, he would fix the second reading for a time sufficiently distant for the provisions of the Bill to be well known.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, I will, with the permission of the House, state the course which the Government think it right to take on the important subject now under its consideration. Some years have now passed since my hon. Friend the Member for Dumfries (Mr. Ewart), who has always been a strenuous advocate of the abolition of the punishment of death, brought this question before the House. I think he acted wisely and with a sound discretion in discontinuing to pursue the course of annually submitting this Motion to Parliament; and, no doubt, he must have been
 2083 2084 "Respecting the expediency of abolishing capital punishment the Committee found scarcely any difference of opinion. Almost all witnesses, and all authorities, agree in opinion that for offences of the gravest kind, the punishment of death ought to be retained." 2085
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I believe I stated correctly the answer which the late Lord Denman is recorded to have given. I did not cite his opinion as in favour of capital punishment. On the question of the deterring effect of that punishment, however, the late learned Lord said—
 "I think I have seen many instances of for bearing to add aggravation to the criminal act from fear of the severer punishment. I allude in particular to burglary and highway robbery." "Where burglaries and robberies are committed with deliberation, I think that the fear of capital punishment often saves life." 2086 "Capital punishment is now practically confined to cases of murder, and in such cases I think it ought to be retained. I think it very important to leave to every criminal the strongest possible motive for abstaining from murder, in whatever crimes he may be engaged. I think that the deterring effect of punishment generally is very great, not upon the actual criminal population, but upon the vast masses a little removed above guilt," "I think the deterring effects of punishment very great, not on the hardened, or on those to whom the commission of crime has become a sort of necessity, but on those who are still guiltless." "I think the fear of punishment does substantially operate upon the large class of culprits who are tempted to crime, without the incentive of violent passion, and whose habits previous guilt has not depraved, including those who have not hitherto been at all engaged in crime. 2087 primâ facie 2088 "By the English law murder is the unlawfully killing another with malice aforethought, express
 2089 2090 2091 2092
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he did not remember that, previous to the introduction of the Bill, any communication took place between his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Locke) and himself. On the second reading he stated publicly the views he entertained with regard to it, and he had expressed no other opinion on it out of the House, except that he suggested to his hon. and learned Friend that it would be expedient that he should further postpone the future stage of the Bill till the Correspondence was placed in the hands of Members.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the House permitted the introduction of a similar Bill three years ago. Upon the present occasion he had not dissented from the proposal to introduce the Bill, nor had the hon. Member or any one in that House done so.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that of course his attention had been drawn to the Bill introduced by the hon. and learned Member for Southwark (Mr. Locke), but it had not been introduced with the concurrence of the Government, except so far that they offered no opposition to its introduction. Upon the second reading he had recommended the hon. and learned Gentleman to put off the Committee to a distant day, with a view of enabling the States of Jersey to take the subject into their own hands, and the hon. and learned Gentleman had
 2053
 SIR GEORGE GREY : It is true, Sir, that three or four Austrian ships have arrived in the Downs, and we have reason to believe that a few others are on their passage from the Mediterranean to join them; but the Austrian Government have given the most distinct assurances to Her Majesty's Government that for the present the only orders given to the commander of that squadron are to protect German commerce in the North Sea, and to prevent a blockade of the Elbe and the Weser. The Channel Fleet is in the Downs, and the Admiral commanding will be fully informed of the movements of the Austrian squadron. Her Majesty's Government must decline to say what orders may be given to the commander of the Channel Fleet in the event of different instructions being given to the Austrian commander, but they have reason to entertain a confident expectation that the Austrian squadron will not enter the Baltic.
 MR. HIBBERT , in opposition to the view taken by the hon. Baronet as to the deterrent effect of public executions, read a passage from the letter of a philanthropic gentleman in Manchester, who had attended more than fifty culprits to the scaffold, and who declared that means
 2115
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, this was just one of those subjects which the Government ought to take in hand. If it could be clearly shown that street music
 2118
 SIR JOHN WALSH  deprecated the introduction into the discussion of the theological argument, on which he maintained the House of Commons was not a fitting tribunal to form an opinion. He might, however, incidentally remark that, before and since the foundation of Christianity, capital punishments had been almost universally adopted by mankind. But, passing to the point more immediately before the House, whether a Committee or a Commission should be appointed to inquire into the subject, he must say that, for his own part, he should prefer a Commission. He might add that he had never been able to arrive at the conclusion that capital punishment was not on the whole the most deterrent of all. If a milder punishment could accomplish the same end, he would, of course, at once say, let it be adopted; but, then, other punishments did not exercise the same effect on the imagination, the feelings, and the fears of men. A fallacy ran through the whole of the arguments on this subject. The noble Lord the Member for Chichester (Lord Henry Lennox) had given the House an interesting account of the recent execution. In the interests of science, and in a desire to enlighten and benefit mankind, the noble Lord sacrificed his own feelings and personal convenience and attended the execution of the five pirates. The noble Lord's arguments went to show that the awful spectacle produced no effect on the 20,000 people who witnessed it; and the admirable and clever novelist (Charles Dickens) took the same view as the noble Lord as to the effect of public executions. Now, there could be no doubt that the spectators at such scenes did not belong to a very refined class, and that much coarseness and want of feeling were displayed by them; but it did not follow that because they indulged in unseemly levity in the public view they were not in the solitude of their own homes impressed by a deterrent influence against the crimes for which they had seen the punishment of death inflicted, and in the belief that that was so he was corroborated by the fact that what was called the criminal or dangerous class, seldom or never committed the crime of murder. They were stopped by something, and that something, he was disposed to think, was the fear of the gallows. Murders were, or al-
 2114 The Idle Apprentice The Times
 MR. PACKE  expressed his approval of the metric system, which would be a great convenience to farmers in their corn transactions. He had always been a friend to the adoption of the principle contained in the Bill, which was so simple that it only required the lapse of a short time to convince the people that the decimal system
 7
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that this Bill was to introduce into Ireland the recognition of limited interests in property, not at present recognized by the law of England. He considered it undesirable that there should be different legislation in this country and in Ireland, and he therefore suggested that the provisions of the Bill should be extended to England.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he rather suspected that it was the intention of the authors of the Bill to proceed by degrees to the abolition of small settlements in Ireland, pursuing the principle of the Incumbered Estates Act, which he looked upon
 15
 MR. DAWSON  said, he had been opposed to the Bill at first, but on examining its provisions, and referring to high legal authorities, he felt bound to say that his opinion had changed, and that he now believed the measure would be very innocuous, which might be of use in many instances, and he should now support its general principles.
 MR. AYRTON  begged to second the Motion of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Dumfries (Mr. W. Ewart), as his right hon. Friend had agreed to bring in a clause legalizing the employment of the metric system, and had undertaken to propose the true equivalent between the metric system and the imperial standard in use in this country. On that understanding he would leave the Bill in the charge of his right hon. Friend.
 MR. AYRTON  thought that the object of his hon. Friend the Member for Dumfries (Mr. W. Ewart) would be attained if he accepted the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he had been one of those who, when it was proposed to make the metric system compulsory, con-
 6
 MR. AYRTON  said, he had not ventured to define the equivalent of the metre, but had taken it from the Bill before the House. The exact proportion of those measures was a subject for very grave consideration, but with the enormous body of the civil service at their back, he thought it would not be a very difficult matter for the Government to ascertain the exact proportion between the metre and an English yard in inches and decimals. Considering the immense sum paid for the civil service, that was not too much to: expect from them. He did not undertake to establish the precise equivalent, but held that the figures proposed to the House were to be taken simply as representing a principle.
 MR. ADDERLEY  considered that the principle of this Bill had been already sufficiently discussed, having been twice affirmed by the House. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Chester (Mr. Humberston) said he preferred a simple system, but the great merit of the metric system was its preeminent simplicity. The present system was confused; and, therefore, they sought to introduce the simpler system, not only on account of its intrinsic merits, but because other countries had adopted it. As to the colonies, the fact was they could not adopt the metric system because we prevented them. Many of the eminent firms in England had been obliged to adopt the system, by reason of their extensive dealings with other countries, and they found it to work well and satisfactorily, and by reason of its simplicity they were enabled to carry on their business with a reduced staff. There was a letter in  The Times 4
 MR. ADDERLEY  begged to express his gratification that the opposition of the Government had been confined to so small a point. The legalization of contracts in this country under the metric system was the pith of the Bill, and as the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade had expressed his readiness to introduce clauses for that purpose, he would advise the hon. Member for Dumfries (Mr. W. Ewart) to accept that offer if he could not carry his Bill in its entirely. In reference to the remarks of the noble Lord the Member for East Retford (Viscount Galway) he said, that in his county there were thirty-six different bushels, and he was informed that in Lancashire there were more than double that number. With respect to the creation of a standard, there could be no difficulty in obtaining an actual metre from Paris, and the clauses of the Bill would not come into operation until the metre was ascertained. The great advantage of the system was, that if they once got the metre they had ascertained the whole system. No other standard was required, every kind of measure being taken from that one unit. Copying an existing standard was not required, as when the standards were destroyed with the Houses of Parliament, fresh calculations were required to enable them to be replaced. A Royal Commission, therefore, would be of no use. The hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) spoke of enacting a scale of equivalents, but the Bill as it stood did that. If the Bill could not now be carried through the House on account of the Members not being sufficiently acquainted with the subject, he should advise its promoters to accept the proposal of the Government, which would place the measure in quite a new position before the country. Once legalized, the system would soon recommend itself; and then, whatever further provisions might be found necessary, would be more easily adopted.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  remarked that in his opinion the difference sought to be established was merely one between fact and principle. The right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade (Mr. Milner Gibson) had simply asserted a fact, whereas the hon. Member for Rochdale (Mr. Cobden) wished to establish a principle.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he must deny that the principle of the metric system had been affirmed by the House. The Bill had only been allowed by the courtesy of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade and the House to be read a second time in order that the question might be discussed in Committee.
 MR. CRAUFURD  expressed a hope that the Orders would not be confirmed with respect to Oban, the inhabitants and authorities of which borough had received no sufficient notice of this proposal, the effect of which would be to levy a heavy tax upon them, and greatly to cripple the trade of the place, without conferring any advantage whatever upon the navigation. He begged to move that the words "and Oban" be omitted from the order.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said that, in his opinion, in the proposed and similar legislation, property in Ireland had been hardly dealt with; in fact, he looked upon the Incumbered Estates Act as robbery by Act of Parliament. However, the greatest objection he had to the present measure was that it would be entirely useless, and would lead to greater complications and difficulties than at present existed. If there were any necessity for such a measure it ought to be taken up by the Government, and not left in the hands of a private Member. He begged to move that the Chairman do report Progress.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, that the House was entitled to some explanation of the objects of the Bill.
 MR. BAGWELL  said, the Bill was a permissive one, and was much required. He wished it were compulsory, as great good would be effected by it.
 MR. BLAKE  said, that from his experience of the working of the metric system in France and Russia, he was convinced of its great advantages. He had been particularly impressed by the facility and the rapidity with which it was applied even in the most uncivilized parts of the latter country. He had very little doubt that, after a few years' experience of its advantages in England, the House would be able to pass a measure which would render its adoption compulsory. He admitted that the system would not become general until it was made compulsory; but that not being possible at the present moment, he thought the Bill was the beat that could be devised to further the adoption of the metric system.
 MR. BRADY  said, that the fourth clause of the Bill gave the power to any possessor of a head rent to sell it to the person in possession of the land, and to the person in possession of the land to buy it, and to make it a charge upon his successor. He thought that would be very objectionable, and considered the Bill wholly unnecessary.
 MR. GEORGE  said, he thought that a Bill of such importance ought, to have been introduced by the Government and not by a private Member. If it would be good for Ireland it ought to be good for England, and as it was the tendency of the day to assimilate the law of the two countries, a Bill of this importance should be in the hands of the Government, and ought not to be brought forward without an expression of opinion on the part of the Irish Law Officers. It was a permissive Bill, and it was found that permissive Bills were generally inoperative in Ireland. He hoped
 14
 MR. GEORGE  said, the object of the Amendment was quite clear and right—to confirm the operation of the Bill to perpetuities subject to yearly fee-farm rents, and not to let it apply to leases for lives or for short terms of years (two hundred) which the Bill did as it then stood.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he was astonished to hear the statement of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, that he did not know what was a metre. His predecessor had experienced a similar difficulty, and it appeared that the Government, with all the civil service at their command, had not been able to
 8 entente cordiale savans savans savans savans savans
 MR. HASSARD  begged to move the insertion of words extending the definition of "persons" so as to include any "bodies corporate, aggregate, or sole."
 MR. HASSARD  begged to move the insertion of words requiring money paid for the redemption of rents to be paid "to trustees appointed by the deed or instrument whereby the estate or interest of such owner of such rent shall be limited."
 MR. HUMBERSTON  observed, that there was a very general feeling in the country in favour of uniformity of weights and measures, but it was desirable that that object should be accomplished by much more simple machinery than was proposed
 2 3
 MR. COBDEN  said, that he had been a little puzzled to understand his right hon. Friend's distinction between a Bill to declare that certain contracts under a certain system of weights and measures should be legal, and a measure declaring that such contracts should not be illegal. He knew that his right hon. Friend had a very discriminating mind, and was sometimes able to perceive subtle distinctions where he must confess that he himself was at fault. In the present instance, he had not been able to gather the full purport of the distinction made. There was another difficulty through which he could not see his way. He understood that his right hon. Friend proposed that the hon. Member for Dumfries (Mr. W. Ewart) should put the Bill in the form he suggested, and that he would give, on the authority of the Board of Trade, certain equivalents representing the relative proportion between the French and English weights and measures, but his right hon. Friend did not answer the question how he was going to ascertain
 12
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, that he had, on a former occasion, made a long statement to the House in explanation of the objects of the Bill, and his only desire was; to save tiring hon. Members with a, repetition. On that occasion the hon. and gallant Member for Roscommon (Colonel French) was unfortunately absent. The Bill was of a permissive character, and sought to facilitate the redemption of Chief Rents in Ireland without necessitating the expensive course that was now necessary.
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, he accepted the Amendment as an improvement on the measure.
 MR. LONGFIELD  expressed a hope that that Motion would not be agreed to. The arguments of his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Roscommon (Colonel French) were about the most absurd he had ever listened to, and, in fact, were founded on complete ignorance. As to making that Act applicable to England as well as Ireland, it was forgotten that the whole law of landlord and tenant in Ireland was entirely different from that of England; and the present Bill, necessary though it was for Ireland, was, therefore, not suitable for England. He was quite willing to adopt any Amendment that might be suggested to protect remaindermen against fraud.
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, that the reason he had not re-considered the objectionable clauses was, that he had not had time since he gave his promise.
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, he could not understand the Amendment, because fee-simple properties paid no rent.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to confirm certain Provisional Orders of the Board of Trade under the General Pier and Harbour Act (1861) relating to various places enumerated.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the provisional order in question had been framed in accordance with the provisions of the General Pier and Harbour Act of 1861 No provisional order could have any force until it had been confirmed by Parliament, and it was for the purpose of having the order confirmed that a Bill was brought in.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he was sorry that the hon. Member for Dumfries (Mr. Ewart) seemed to think that he had been taken by surprise in the matter, do had never said that he would bring in a Bill on the subject. He had said that he should have no objection to propose a clause to something like this effect:—
 "That notwithstanding anything contained in any Act of Parliament, no contract should be doomed invalid or open to objection on the ground that the weights and measures therein expressed were those commonly known as the metric weights and measures, and that the table (to be annexed) should be deemed to set forth the equivalents between the imperial and metric systems," 11
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he could not give any undertaking of that nature without conferring with his Colleagues. The proposal he had made was a reasonable one, and beyond it he was not pre pared to go.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he objected to the words in line 10,
 "That from and after the passing of this Act the weights and measures of the metric system shall be legal weights and measures." 5
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, it would be necessary in the first place that they should obtain a proper standard. The hon. Member for Dumfries (Mr. W. Ewart) said that the Royal Society had a proper metre which was deposited there in 1816, and that that would serve as a standard; for himself he knew nothing of it, but it was obvious that, having been there for half a century, it would not be advisable to adopt such a standard off hand. Three Commissions or Committees had formerly been appointed on this subject, all of which had arrived at different conclusions. Until they had a proper standard furnished he did not see how they were to make any satisfactory progress in this matter. The hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) proposed by one of his Amendments to define exactly what a metre was, and he declared that it was 39·371 inches. With all respect he could not regard the hon. and learned Gentleman as a decisive authority upon such a point, especially when he remembered that various commissions of  savans
 MR. O'HAGAN  said, that he had stated before that he thought the Bill would be unsatisfactory unless it were radically changed; but he believed its principle, if carefully guarded, would be innocuous, and might be to some extent beneficial, provided better protection were afforded to the interests of remaindermen.
 MR. W. EWART  said, that upon the understanding that his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade was prepared to undertake what he had proposed to the House, he would move that the Chairman report Progress.
 MR. W. EWART  said, he must complain that his right hon. Friend had given him no notice of the views with which he regarded the Bill or of his intention to op-
 10
 MR. W. EWART  said, it was rather hard that his unfortunate Bill should be treated so summarily when it had already been on the paper for more than a month. Would his right hon. Friend consent to the appointment of a Commission in addition to laying the clause upon the table?
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  expressed a hope that the Bill would not be subjected to any unnecessary delay, as any measure winch would simplify the management of property in Ireland would be attended with great benefit. The Bill would make a great improvement in the law of Ireland, and he could see no reason why it should not be passed into law.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  thought that a simplification of the weights and measures throughout the country was very much required, and in that opinion he was borne out by the evidence of the witnesses who had been examined before the Committee, of which he had been a member.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, he would support the Amendment, as erring, if erring at all, on the safe side.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he now understood the object of the Amendment, but the words proposed by the hon. Baronet the Member for Dublin (Sir Edward Grogan) did not bear the meaning intended. However, it went to the principle of the Bill, and he hoped the Committee would not agree to it.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, that this was a very singular Bill, for there was not a word in it alluding to the rights of the remainder-men. He thought the mistake was, that notwithstanding the promise given by his hon. Friend (Mr. Longfield); on a former occasion, that he would re-consider the objectionable clauses, they were left in precisely the same condition. Every disinterested person with whom he had conversed on the subject held, that to pass that Bill would be to open the door to unlimited fraud in Ireland; and if the hon. and gallant Member for Roscommon (Colonel French) should carry his Motion to a division, he would support him.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  begged to move the insertion of words, in order to confine the operation of the Bill to perpetuities, subject to annual fee-farm rents.
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  said, he was not aware that in the corn markets of the West Riding of Yorkshire any difficulty was experienced with the present modes of measurement, however much it might be otherwise in Leicestershire. There was at present a standard in every town and county in England, and there was no difficulty in ascertaining what it really was. The usual mode of selling was by the load, consisting of three bushels, and the bushel of corn was fixed at 60lb. weight, so that no metric system was required lo make those bargains intelligible. He could not help thinking that this Bill, as a permissive measure, would create much more confusion than at present existed.
 MR. COWPER  said, he had been made aware, by the petitions which had been presented, that there was a feeling of jealousy among the young men who played cricket in Battersea Park on account of the regulations now in force, but the inquiries he had made justified him in asserting that there was no ground for dissatisfaction. The game would be spoilt if persons were left to pitch their wickets as they pleased. The ground at Battersea, devoted to cricketing, was divided into five portions, and in such a way as to avoid conflicts. The first and largest portion was for the use of persons not members of clubs, the second was reserved for the practice of organized clubs, a third part for the matches of organized clubs, a fourth portion was reserved for the Batter-sea Institution Club, and the fifth portion was allotted to the Civil Service Club. There was room for all. The ground appropriated to the use of the Civil Service Club was not at first better than the other parts of the cricket ground; if it were so now, this was owing to the expenditure of the club in mowing, rolling, and levelling it.
 MR. COWPER  said, that in the space allotted to other clubs there was room to play eighteen games at a time; but in the portion granted to the Civil Service Club,
 21
 MR. COWPER,  in reply, said, his noble Friend would have ample opportunity of bringing before the House the subject to which his first question referred, if he should think it necessary to do so; and, probably, the proper way of doing; so would be to move an Address to the Crown. With respect to the architectural designs for the New Museum at South Kensington, he had to state that upon receiving the awards of the judges hit opened the envelopes which bore the particular mottoes outside and the author's names within, and by that means he as certained the names of the three successful competitors. He had not felt justified in opening the other envelopes, as the competitors might wish to remain anonymous He proposed, however, to issue, an advertisement inviting the competitors to signify their wishes upon that point.
 MR. COWPER  said, that the Government proposed to lay upon the table of the House the Estimate for building a National Gallery upon the site of Burlington House, If those Estimates were accepted, it would follow that steps must be taken for the disposal of the buildings at present occupied by the pictures belonging to the Trustees of the National Gallery.
 MR. COWPER  said, the Reply of the Royal Academy to the Report of the Commissioners would be laid before the House. With regard to the National Gallery, he was in communication with the Trustees upon the subject, and at the conclusion of the Correspondence he hoped to have the opportunity of laying before the House the opinion of the Trustees upon the design for the National Gallery.
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, On what grounds the convict Hutchinson, sentenced to four years' penal servitude for perjury, in the case of conspiracy against Mr. Bewicke, of Threepwood Hall, had been released on a ticket-of-leave, after sixteen months imprisonment?
 MR. H. BERKELEY : But was the Judge aware of the character of the man?
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, in reply, that the Bill was not prepared at present, and he could not state when it would be ready. He believed, however, that it would be brought forward immediately after the holydays.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he would take the opportunity of directing the attention of the House to another subject. It would be within the recollection of the House that much attention had been excited by a report from Mr. Mallory, the Secretary of the Navy of the Confederate States, which was subsequently stated to be a forgery. He had received an extremely courteous communication from that gentleman, in which he stated that the document was a forgery throughout. Mr. Mallory had also requested him to make the House acquainted with his denial of the authenticity of the document.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he was not aware that the late Sir George Lewis had, as the hon. Baronet the Member for Evesham (Sir Henry Willoughby) had stated, promised those Returns, but he saw no objection to their production, and he thought they might conveniently he furnished in the form of an Appendix to the Report. At the same time, to produce a perfectly correct Return would be impossible, owing to the fluctuating number of men employed in the different establishments from time to time. In future he expected the Vote to which the hon. Baronet referred would be presented to the House in a form which would enable hon. Members to exercise a greater control over the sum paid than they did at present. The system of double entry was being introduced as fast as possible in the manufacturing departments; and when it was in full operation the House would have the accounts at an earlier period than at present, and they would have in greater detail not only the sum proposed to be spent, but also the sort of work which it was intended to turn out during the year. In reply to the second Question, if the hon. Baronet had asked him when he was moving the supplemental estimate how the balance between the War Department and the Indian Government was arrived at, he might have been able to inform him. The papers relating to both Questions were still in his possession, and he hoped at a future day to be able to answer the inquiries of the hon. Baronet. In reply to the hon. Member for Greenwich (Mr. Angerstein), he begged to state that it was quite true that Lord Herbert increased the number of soldiers who were allowed to marry whilst their regiments were at home, and the number of soldiers' wives allowed to live in barracks, thinking thereby to improve the condition of the soldier; but when the regiment was ordered on foreign service it became quite a different question. Not only considerable expense was incurred for the carriage of the wives and children of the soldiers, but the soldiers' wives occupied barrack room, received allowances for fuel and light, and they also drew rations. Thus considerable additional expenses were incurred. If the wives and families were taken out at all they must
 29 s s s s s s s s
 COLONEL NORTH  said there could be no doubt whatever that the medical service of the army was under-handed. His: Royal Highness the Duke of Cambridge, Sir Richard Airey, and other officers of distinction, had given evidence to that effect before the Committee of 1856. The Commander-in-Chief said that in time of peace every regiment should have one
 30
 GENERAL, PEEL  said, that if the statement made by the hon. and gallant Member for Oxfordshire (Colonel North) were correct—namely, that there were at present 200 vacancies in the medical depart-
 31
 GENERAL PEEL  said, that he should be sorry that it should go forth to the public upon the authority of the hon, and gallant Member for Longford (Major O'Reilly), who had evidently paid so much attention to the subject, confirmed to his surprise by the noble Marquess the Under Secretary for War, that the cost of the British soldier was £92 7 s d s 34
 COLONEL NORTH : I rise to order. I beg to suggest that it will be more regular to finish the discussion on Vote 7.
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, that the question raised by the hon. Baronet the Member for Tavistock (Sir John Trelawny) was one of vital importance. Nobody who had read the Reports of the army and navy, or those which had been published respecting our Mediterranean and Indian stations, could fail to be struck with the number of men invalided during their term of service, or prematurely thrown as pensioners upon the country. The question was one too objectionable in its character for any private Member to take up, but it was the bounden duty of the Government to institute measures of a remedial character, and if, in addition to the Reports in their possession, they
 36
 COLONEL DUNNE  begged to express his approval of the good sense shown by the hon. Baronet the Member for Tavistock (Sir John Trelawny) in introducing the subject. The matter was one which it was impossible to debate in the House, and yet every man knowing anything of the military and naval services was aware that it lay at the root of their health and efficiency. He was anxious to obtain some information with regard to the purveyor's department, the Vote for which seemed to be much larger than was necessary, and the duties of which, he was informed, could be divided between the medical staff, the storekeeper, and the barrack masters. He felt persuaded that in many of the innumerable departments, which were always on the increase, considerable reductions could be made without imparing the general efficiency of the service. The proper method was to compel the departments to originate their own reforms; they knew where retrenchments could be made without impropriety, while the House of Commons could only criticize expenditure without laying its finger on the excess.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, the hon. and gallant Member for Oxfordshire (Colonel North) had called the attention of the Committee to the deficiency in the supply of surgeons for the army, but had attributed that circumstance to the wrong cause.
 COLONEL NORTH  observed, that he had not assigned any reasons, not knowing what the reasons were.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  replied that either the hon. and gallant Member for Oxfordshire (Colonel North) or the right hon. and gallant Member for Huntingdon (General Peel) sitting below him had connected the deficiency of surgeons with the failure to carry out in their integrity the recommendations of the Commission on which the warrant was founded. In all essential particulars those recommendations had been complied with, and the medical officers had obtained every substantial advantage contemplated by those recommendations. In one or two points they had been departed from, but they were hardly of a character to deter any medical man, otherwise desirous of doing so, from entering the service. It was
 37 38 39 s d s d
 COLONEL NORTH  said, that officers in the medical service did not so much complain of the question of rank; hut that of late years they had not been allowed to retire till after twenty-five years' service. What they wanted was the permission to retire after twenty years' service, an arrangement which would give them a much better chance of obtaining a good private practice. The country had a right to expect that when its troops were prostrated by wounds or unhealthy climates they would have the best possible medical advice. At present there were no less than 200 vacancies in the medical department. During the Crimean war there was scarcely a family in the country, from the peer to the peasant, that did not mourn the loss of some relative. A Committee was appointed in 1856, which reported that the medical officers had been deficient during the war. Eight years had elapsed, and the same state of things existed. If war broke out to-morrow, what would the troops do for surgeons? The Committee which sat eight years ago reported that each regiment in the service should have a surgeon and two assistant surgeons; but at present the regiments serving at home had no assistant surgeons at all. The authorities were obliged to send assistant surgeons out to India who had only just returned from Canada, New Zealand, or the West Indies. A class of acting assistant surgeons had been appointed who had never before been heard of in this country, and some of the regiments had no assistant surgeons. The country had a right to expect that the medical department of the army should be placed in the best possible position.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : I do not know.
 COLONEL DUNNE  begged to call the attention of the Committee to the fact that, while in the line they were lowering the standard, and found it extremely difficult to get recruits, they experienced no difficulty in obtaining men for the militia. It was, however, very hard to find officers. Out of 4,500 officers, which did not really represent the proper number of the establishment, more than 1,500 were at present wanted, while they had the whole of the men, with the exception of some 10,000, who could be easily had. He attributed that state of things to the officers being put to such heavy expenses, particularly for lodgings, when their regiments were out training. That was the result of a bad economy. Another instance of the miserable economy which was carried to almost an absurd length, was to be found in the fact, that while the training of his own regiment would cost £2,000, he had over and over again applied to the War Department for ground for training, and though the expense would be only about £50, he could not get it allowed. The
 41
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he must com plain of the hardship inflicted on mounted officers of the militia in not being allowed forage all the year round. They merely got the allowance of 2 s
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, the calculation was based upon former experience. It was known that last year, the year before, and for some years past, a certain number of men were in hospital, and an average was thus arrived at.
 THE MARQUESS OF HART1NGTON  said, the question of allowances for lodgings to officers of the militia had in a very few instances been brought to the notice of the Secretary of State. In most places where militia regiments were sent for training there was proper accommodation in billets, to which the officers were entitled, and for lodgings; and in cases where it was shown to the satisfaction of the inspecting officer that the quarters on which the officers were billeted were not available, an allowance for lodgings had been granted, A similar observation would apply to the cage of drilling-ground. The allowance for the hire of drilling-ground was in most instances found sufficient, and whore it was not, the remaining sum was required to be paid out of the Contingent Fund. But that was not a hardship. With respect to field officers receiving a larger share of forage allowance, that was scarcely necessary, because those officers were generally gentlemen, and in a position to keep their own horses independently of any allowance. There was one point to which he was anxious to call attention, and he could wish that the discussion upon it would come on at a time when a large number of militia officers were present, because the Secretary of State would be glad to know their opinions upon it. Although the militia force was in a highly satisfactory state, still there was a general opinion amongst the officers that it would greatly increase the efficiency of the force if a longer period for training were allowed Four weeks instead of three would be productive of great benefit in the training of tin men. It was evident that any prolongation of the period of training would be at tended with a large increase of expense. It had been calculated that a week's more
 42
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he had no doubt the proposition would generally meet with the approval of militia officers who commanded large regiments. He thought there were not at present more than six or seven regiments in Ireland that at all came up to 1,000 men each, and not above five or six in England over 1,000 men. He considered between 800 and 900 men sufficient for a militia regiment. Such a regiment was infinitely more handy to drill than one composed of a larger number.
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, he had always consistently opposed the Yeomanry Cavalry Vote from a belief that it was a very expensive force, and because he considered the money was misapplied. He could not leave the hon. Member for Carlisle (Mr. Lawson) alone in his glory, and, therefore, he rose to oppose the Vote. He had never seen a finer body of men than our Yeomanry except in the position of soldiers. He considered it a force kept up entirely for the amusement of the aristocracy and the landowners. They very much liked to get upon horses in fine uniforms, but they were careless of the work they had to do, for they did not take the pains to make their men good soldiers. He thought it was setting a bad example to the Volunteers, when they expended so much on the Yeomanry Cavalry, and did nothing for the former. That was treatment which our auxiliary force ought not to receive. He would have the military force of the country kept up in the best way possible, and if they did that, and accepted with gratitude the assistance of the Volunteers, they would be quite able to dispense with the services of the Yeomanry. If the Yeomanry would make themselves equal to the Volunteers he would stand by them, but before they would be equal to that position they must give more attention to discipline and drill.
 COLONEL KNOX  said, he could not allow the observations of the hon. Member for Bristol (Mr. H. Berkeley) to pass unnoticed. He quite oncurred in the opinion that the Volunteers were an admirable force, and that they had done great service to the country; but the hon. Member had made a mistake in saying they cost the country nothing. They cost about £300,000 annually.
 MR. H. BERKELEY : And very cheap at the money.
 COLONEL KNOX  said, that was very likely, but denied that the Yeomanry Cavalry were by no means an inefficient body, and he referred the hon. Member for Bristol (Mr. H. Berkeley) to the Report of the Commission, which showed the contrary.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, the hon. Member for Oxford (Mr. Neate) need not be under any apprehension that the reduction on the Hospital Vote would at all interfere with the hospital comforts of the men. The reduction had been made, not in hospital comforts, but in the number of the staff, as it was now anticipated less would be required than when the Estimates were formed. With regard to the Vote now before the Committee, he had nothing more to say on the subject than when it was last before the House, when he gave his vote in an opposite direction to what he should to-night. He and the noble Lord at the head of the Government admitted that exercise and frequent training were necessary to keep up the efficiency of the Yeomanry Cavalry, but they said they were unable to make a grant towards the force this year, because the Estimates had been swelled beyond their ordinary amount by exceptional circumstances, and it was considered that a large outlay would be necessary for the war in New Zealand. Some time afterwards news was received in this country that it was anticipated the war would be over much sooner than it was anticipated when the Estimates were framed, and, therefore, the necessity for the reduction of the Vote and the reasons given for it no longer existed. He hoped, therefore, although it was disagreeable to ask hon. Members to vote in an opposite direction to what they had done, that un der the altered state of things they would do so and agree to the Vote. News had been received that day from New Zealand of an equally if not more favourable character, and, therefore, he thought they might with propriety agree to the Vote.
 GENERAL PEEL  begged to ask for some information respecting the Army Reserve Force—where it was to be found, and of what it consisted. It would appear from the increase of the Vote from £7,000 to £10,000, that the number of men had increased. Was that the fact?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, the number of the Army Reserve was 216 in Ireland and 1,405 in Great Britain, making a total of 1,621. The force consisted of men who had taken their discharge from the army at the completion of ten years' service, and they were entitled by serving double the number of years in the army reserve that they would have had to serve in the army to the same allowance that they would have received in the latter case. He admitted that the Army Reserve Force had not fulfilled the expectations that had been formed of it. The reason was that officers commanding regiments had not given any encouragement to it. They naturally wished to discourage their men from taking their discharges, and, therefore, in order to induce them to re-enlist, the commanding officers did not take any trouble to publish the conditions of service in the
 52
 GENERAL PEEL  wished to be informed whether those men were ever exercised or called out for training. He thought it would be better when it was found that a ten years' man would not re-enlist that he should be recommended to join the militia, in order to prevent that small body of men being scattered all over the three kingdoms.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he doubted whether commanding officers would not be as unwilling to encourage enlistment in the militia as to join the Army Reserve, but the suggestion was one which should receive consideration. He believed that there were but thirty or forty of the Army Reserve in London, and probably no larger number could be found in any other place.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that in his opinion the best thing would be to abandon the plan, which was an admitted failure, and therefore he hoped the noble Marquess the Under Secretary for War would undertake that no new additions should be made to the Army Reserve Force. Notwithstanding what the noble Marquess had been led to state on a former evening, he knew that at the Horse Guards it was admitted that the number of men who would re-enlist would not be so large as was stated. It was, then, the more necessary not to hold out temptations to men to take their discharge. For the future he should certainly like to see the Vote struck out altogether. At present those men were a myth. Nobody seemed to see one of them.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  observed, that the Government did what the hon. Member for Devizes (Mr. Darby Griffith) suggested they should do—they gave certain kinds of cloth, five, six, or more patterns, at cost price. He could not say it was intended to take any further steps in the way of assisting the Volunteer force, either by increasing the capitation allowance or providing them with clothing. The Commission to which the hen. Gentleman referred sat two years ago, and one of the principal difficulties to which they addressed themselves had reference to re-clothing. That question was very minutely gone into; they had it fully before them when they made their report, and it was clear from what bad fallen from the commanders of corps to-night that the general feeling of the Volunteers was that the country had behaved liberally to them, and that they did not desire any further grant at all events without a more extended trial of the present arrangement. No doubt some difficulty was experienced in attending battalion drill, but with respect to administrative battalions, there was an allowance of 4s. per man where they had to travel over a certain distance to attend drill over and beyond the 20 s s
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he agreed with the noble Lord the Member for the East Riding (Lord Hotham), that it would be a good plan to give each recruit such a pamphlet He had not meant to impute blame to commanding officers, who naturally desired to keep as many experienced soldiers in their regiments as possible. With respect to re-enlistments, he could not admit that he had over-stated them, as the last Returns showed that the calculations hail been fully borne out by the facts. He could not see any reason why the fact of men receiving their discharge should prevent them from being employed in the Reserve Force, and they did not feel any interest in their force if they did not encourage their men to enter it.
 COLONEL NORTH  remarked, that out of 7,842 men who had received their discharge, 5,292 had disappeared altogether, In Canada alone the men who would be entitled to their discharge during the present year would number 4,000, and those men would receive unlimited promises from the American Government, though whether those promises would be fulfilled was quite another matter. The probability was, however, that not one of those men would again take service in our army.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that he had received no report upon the subject of the drill of the Army Reserve. The Reserve was called out and drilled ten days in the course of the year, Out of 11,842 men who were entitled to their discharge, 5,295 only availed themselves of their right, 6,547 re-engaging at once. The Returns did not give the number of those who re-enlisted within six months, but if it bore any proportion to the number of former years it must have been large. He could not give any assurance that the item would not be renewed another year. In fact, he was desirous that measures should be taken for increasing the efficiency of the force.
 GENERAL PEEL  said, that the remarks of the noble Marquess the Under Secretary for War thoroughly warranted the statement which he had made. The long-service men were those who re-enlisted. More than one-half of the others had accepted their discharge.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, that such a Motion could not be adopted, because the men were already engaged. There was, however, no reason why their number should be increased.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : Yes.
 THE MARQUESS OP HARTLNGTON : I cannot tell.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he hoped to be able to convince the Committee that the course which the Government had taken in the matter under consideration, was not such as his noble Friend would lead them to suppose. His noble Friend seemed to imply that the question proposed to the Ordnance Select Committee was simply one relating to the different kinds of large bore rifles; but the competitive trial which the Committee had been intrusted to make involved every variety of arms which it was thought might turn out useful weapons, including large and small-bore rifles. The trial was a competitive one between the large-bore and the small-bore, between the various kinds of large-bores, and between the various kinds of small-bores. The general result of the trial was that in almost all essential particulars Mr. Whitworth's smallbore was by far the best military weapon. The Committee came to that conclusion in the passage which his noble Friend had read to the Committee. There were some minor defects in that rifle which Mr. Whit-worth undertook to remove. The Committee did not, however, recommend that an extensive armament of our troops with the small-bore should at once take place, because that would have involved a total change of ammunition and great incon-
 60 "A strict but impartial comparison on all points connected with military efficiency establishes the superiority of the Lancaster rifle. Should it, therefore, be decided to retain the present Enfield calibre (and in the absence of any data of their own as to the value of the polygonal system applied to this calibre), the Committee are of opinion that the adoption of the Lancaster system of rifling, with a spiral of one turn in 36 inches, minor axis of the ellipse 0·572, will be attended with considerable advantage to the service, more particularly as it can be accomplished without necessitating any change in the present service ammunition, or increase to the present cost of supply." 61 62
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he was pleased to hear a Motion in favour of reforms in those establishments promised from the part of the House where the hon. Member for Rochdale (Mr. Cobden) sat, for since 1853, when he had the honour of holding the office of Clerk of the Ordnance, he had been declaiming against them and received very little support. In that year his successor was the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the county of Limerick (Mr. Monsell), and there was introduced a system of casting ordnance which cost the country half a million, though he believed a gun had never been turned out according to that method. When the Armstrong
 70
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, the hon. Baronet the Member for Evesham (Sir Henry Willoughby) had raised a question of great importance, and had suggested that there should be some one in the House to watch over the expenditure on the Ordnance and for manufac-
 71 72
 COLONEL DUNNE  begged to second the Motion.
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, that the hon. Baronet the Member for Evesham (Sir Henry Willoughby) was attempting to bring science to a standstill. He desired that we should discover a perfect gun, and then go on with the work. That was impossible. We lived in a world and at a time at which improvements were being made every day, and even at the cost of a considerable expenditure we must avail ourselves of those improvements. Four or five years ago the late Sir Charles Napier was constantly inquiring when the navy was to be supplied with rifled guns. What did the Government do? They called the science of England to their aid, and they produced the most perfect gun, not only of that day, but which existed at the present moment either in Europe or in America. The hon. Baronet said that result had been accomplished by keeping up enormous establishments over which Parliament had no control; yet, year after year, he had gone most thoroughly into the matter and had never been able to divide the House or to strike a shilling off the Votes. Formerly the question to be settled between the Commander-in-Chief and the Master of the Ordnance used to be what was the best weapon which could be placed in the hands of soldiers in the field, but of late years, since the rifle gatherings at Wimbledon and the running deer had been set up, every man had got so learned in the art of shooting, that lectures were delivered in that House which, however well adapted to an institute of Civil Engineers, had little reference to the business of voting the
 66
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he believed that the present Vote was one of the most important in the Estimates; and he could but think that the public service would suffer by its postponement beyond a moderate time. The Government were bound to find arms for the service, and the pre-
 76
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, he was glad that the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty had at length learnt to appreciate the Armstrong gun, and had had an opportunity of doing justice to Sir William Armstrong. With regard to the Motion of the noble Lord the Member for Haddingtonshire (Lord Elcho), the choice of arms rested not with the House
 78
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he was glad that the Vote could not be postponed, because of all the proposals which had been made that was the most unreasonable. He could not conceive what further information hon. Members expected to get. If they had another Committee, it would be two years before they got any money. In spite of the noble Lord (Lord Elcho's) repudiation, he could not but think that he wanted to force a particular arm, which even upon the showing of the Committee was only provisionally the best, on the Government. He must protest against the frequent alteration of patterns, because it tended to weaken the confidence of the army in its weapons. He denied that the War Office had altogether ignored the Report of the Ordnance Select Committee. They reported on several questions, and some of their recommendations had been adopted—that, for instance, with regard to small-bore rifles. He protested against its being held that the Report of a Committee which happened to be consulted by the Secretary of State was to be law to him. If that were so, the result would be that he would not be able to seek advice in that way at all. The responsibility of coming to a decision ought to rest with the Secretary of State. The superiority of the Lancaster over the Enfield was very slight, and it was a question for the War Office to decide whether it was worth while to incur the inconvenience of a change. The Report of the Committee showed that the Lancaster was only provisionally the best arm. It might be supplanted by the Whitworth large or smallbore; and the Secretary of State thought it was not expedient in the meantime to adopt it. The hon. and gallant Member for Aberdeen (Colonel Sykes) had praised the French Estimates for the amount of information which they afforded. On examination, however, it would be found that the figures were stereotyped, and that for the last two or three years the same amount of metal had been stated as costing exactly the same price, and turning out the same
 79
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he wished to ask the noble Marquess (the Under Secretary for War) to explain the reason for the decrease in the present Estimate from that of last year, and if he could assure the Committee that by taking that diminished Vote he would still be able to retain sufficient stores for all warlike purposes, or whether he intended to reduce each description of stores in accordance with the diminished Vote? If so, it was to be regretted that we were to be left with an inefficient establishment; but if, on the other hand, it would give us a sufficient quantity of stores, it would be a subject of great congratulation.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that the reduction on the total amount of the Vote was almost entirely owing to the cessation of the Elswick contract. The small increase for that establishment was due to the change which had taken place in the clothing department.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, the calculation of the department was, that it made clothing somewhat more economically than the articles could be obtained by contract. It was quite open to the trade to dispute the accuracy of that calculation, but since the establishment of the manufactory at Pimlico the contract price had been reduced.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he trusted the House would allow that Vote to pass that evening. With regard to the employment of soldiers in trades, an impression had prevailed that it would interfere with discipline, and the scheme had been postponed in consequence; but the Commander-in-Chief had now expressed his willingness to try the experiment. It would not do to try it on too large a scale at first, but measures would be taken to introduce the system into one or two of the regiments at Aldershot. As to soldiers' institutes, in some large towns garrison institutes had met with great success, and at Gibraltar Captain Jackson had succeeded with great trouble and labour in getting up a very efficient establishment of the kind, but since he left there it had been in a declining state. It seemed that there always would be difficulties in keeping soldiers' institutes in efficiency, unless they were connected with the regimental system. The plan adopted at present, and which had worked so successfully, was to devote a room in every barrack where it was possible, to what was called a recreation room,
 82
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he believed that the Bill was perfectly well understood by every Member of the House. The Committee appointed to inquire into the question of five Under Secretaries of State sitting together in that House, had determined that the seat of the Under Secretary of State last appointed should not he vacated; and it was understood that that House would indemnify him from any penalties he might have incurred by the violation of the Act of Parliament. He was sure the House would be of opinion that no such penalties should be exacted; and he certainly expected that no hon. Gentleman would have the slightest objection to the Bill being read a second time. He begged to move the second reading of the Bill.
 LORD NAAS  said, he viewed the matter in the same light as did the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth (Sir Robert Peel).
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he wished to confirm what had just fallen from the hon. Baronet the Member for Buckingham (Sir Harry Verney). There could be no doubt that the employment of our troops in use-
 81
 MR. C. P. BERKELEY  said, he must complain of the unsatisfactory and complicated manner in which the Estimate was prepared. He complained that the total estimates of works were constantly increasing without any sufficient reasons being assigned. He begged to move that the amount of the Vote be reduced by the sum of £75,000.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he saw no alternative in that case but to press his Motion.
 LORD ELCHO  begged to explain that he did not wish to force any arm on the Government. All he wanted was that a stop should be put to the present wasteful expenditure of the public money, and if the Government would not give any pledge in that respect, the House of Commons was quite justified in interposing. In order to give the Government time to consider the matter, he was willing to withdraw his Motion, if his hon. and gallant Friend opposite would insist on a postponement of the Vote.
 LORD ELCHO  begged to explain that what he desired was that the Government should give an assurance that they would stop the manufacture of an arm condemned by the Committee he had referred to.
 LORD ELCHO  said, the debate had turned upon the question of wasteful expenditure, which might be of two kinds, either by manufacturing at too great a cost, or by persevering in the manufacture of an inferior article for the same money for which a superior one could be got. The latter was the fault of which the Government had been guilty with respect to the manufacture of small arms ever since the Report of the Ordnance Committee in 1862. He agreed with the hon. Gentleman opposite in thinking it a perfect farce to depute men of ability and intelligence to sit at Woolwich to advise the Government on these matters, to pay £6,000 or £7,000 for their salaries and expenses, and then, when they sent in a clear and uncompromising Report, to treat it as so much waste paper. That was exactly what had been done, though the noble Marquess had tried to put the question on an entirely different footing. He (Lord Elcho) had not raised the question of the small-bore rifle. The Government had tried the experiment of the small-bore by placing 8,000 of them in the hands of the troops. But there were 130,000 Enfield rifles in their hands, though that weapon had been condemned; they were still being turned out at the rate of 2,500 a week, and the Committee was asked to go on voting enormous sums for them. The House of Commons ought to refuse the money unless the Government gave a distinct pledge that it would be spent in the best way. What he was trying to do was to get a large bore, which he maintained was the best for these two reasons—that it was less liable to foul, and a shell could be discharged from it when necessary. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Glamorganshire (Mr. H. Vivian) was the originator of the Committee, and
 75 "The elliptical system of rifling of Mr. Lancaster proved itself superior, not only to the ordinary service Enfield, but to the best of the rifles made on other improved principles… The Committee on Small Arms very quickly established the feet that the rifle manufactured by the Government was the worst, and, consequently, it would be satisfactory if the Government could inform the House that some tribunal was about to be established which would consider these matters before the country was involved in a vast expenditure… The regulation rifle was a weak weapon; the groovings were thin and easily worn down by the action of the ramrod, and after the firing of a comparatively few thousand rounds it became inefficient. That was not the case with the Whitworth or the Lancaster." [3  Hansard Cries of
 LORD ELCHO  said, he wished to call the attention of the Committee to the Report of the Ordnance Select Committee on "Systems of Rifling for Small Firearms," dated the 26th of November, 1862. He did so simply from the belief that the course adopted by the War Office with reference to that Report had failed in supplying our army with as efficient a weapon as might have been placed at their service. The large amount of money which we were devoting to that department was not expended in the purchase of the best arm which could be obtained for the money. In order to explain clearly to the Committee the position in which the question then stood, it would be necessary for him to give a few details of what had been done of late years. The Committee was well aware that, great us had been the progress of improvements in our manufactures, in none had so much progress been made as in the rifling of firearms. The first start was made in the year 1851, and it was a strange thing that the Great Exhibition, which was to have been the inauguration of perpetual peace, was the date of the commencement of those labours which had for their object the manufacture of the most efficient weapon for the de-
 55 "The Enfield rifle with its present twist fails in precision at distances above 600 yards, and any attempt at improvement by increasing the spiral entails, as has been shown in the Enfield grooved system, a tendency to foul the rifle, and thus mars its efficiency as a military weapon." 56 "A strict and impartial comparison on all points connected with military efficiency establishes the superiority of the Lancaster rifle. Should it, therefore, be decided to retain the present Enfield calibre, the Committee are of opinion that the adoption of the Lancaster system of rifling, with a spiral of 1 turn in 36 inches, minor axis of the ellipse 0·572, will be attended with considerable advantage to the service, more particularly as it can be accomplished without necessitating any change in the present service ammunition or increase to the present cost of supply." 57 58 s 59 s
 LORD ELCHO : What is the cost?
 LORD ELCHO : Is there any special staff for the purpose of drilling the Reserve Force?
 LORD ELCHO  said, he fully appreciated the kind feelings towards the Volunteer force which had induced the hon. Member for Devizes (Mr. Darby Griffith) to bring the matter forward; still he thought it was hardly necessary that the country should be put to the expense indicated in his remarks. The country had dealt liberally with the Volunteers, and he believed that the grant of £1, and in other oases £1 10 s
 LORD ELCHO  said, he also wished to ask if it be the intention of the Government, during the present Session, to submit to Parliament any proposal for giving increased accommodation to the National Gallery?
 LORD ELCHO  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether Parliament will have an opportunity of expressing an opinion upon any new constitution that may be proposed for the Royal Academy before Her Majesty's Government take any steps to provide increased accommodation for the Annual Exhibition and Schools of the Academy, He would further beg to ask whether, as the name of the successful competitors are affixed to their designs for the New Museum at South Kensington now exhibiting, there will be any objection to affix the names of the artists to the unsuccessful designs?
 VISCOUNT ENFIELD  said, the difficulty of finding officers to fill the junior ranks in the militia was owing to the want of proper accommodation for them when billeted in small towns. The subject was one which deserved the attention of the War Office.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that the Government were responsible for what they did; but supposing the arm recommended by that Committee turned out a failure, who would then be responsible? A few years ago the late Sir Charles Napier, and various other hon. Members, called the Government to account for not introducing a rival gun to the French gun into the navy, and the Government were forced by that House to give a considerable order for the large Armstrong guns. He was not prepared to say that the Armstrong guns were not very good for certain purposes, and he was glad to have that opportunity of correcting a misapprehension of Sir William Armstrong with regard to something that fell from him on a former occasion. What he had stated was that, with regard to the precision of fire, and the precision of the bursting of the shells, there was the greatest reason to be satisfied; but that the Armstrong guns which some of the ships carried at foreign stations, and he referred particularly to the action at Kago-sima, had some of the early specimens of vent-pieces, and they were a failure; but the Admiralty were taking steps to introduce the latest improvements, and he hoped that they would render these guns, efficient. Comparisons had been made be-
 77 crédits supplémentaires
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he agreed that the present was a most important question. He understood that the noble Lord the Member for Haddington-shire (Lord Elcho) desired to force the Government to expend the sum set apart for small arms in such a way as to introduce a particular arm into the service.
 LORD HOTHAM  observed, that one of the objects of the Royal Commission on Recruiting, of which he had been the Chairman, was to get rid of the imputation cast upon the system of recruiting, that individuals were induced to enlist by false representations and by the concealment of matters, which, when they came to the knowledge of the recruit, produced dis-
 53
 LORD LOVAINE  said, he wished to call the attention of the House to the undue advantage given to civilians over officers of the army by the scale of travelling expenses at present allowed by the War Office. The allowance to officers over the rank of colonel was 20 s s s 28
 MAJOR O'REILLY  begged to express his satisfaction at hearing the observations which had fallen from the right hon. and gallant Member for Huntingdon (General Peel). He could bear testimony from experience to the favourable light in which the warrant of 1858 was regarded by medical officers, and to the fact that the changes which had been made in it were most injurious to the efficiency of the service. Before sitting down, he was anxious to correct some errors which he
 32 s s s s 33
 MR. AYRTON  said, he would beg to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether he has issued any instructions to put an end to the appropriation of a part of Battersea Park as a Cricket Ground for the exclusive use of the Civil Service?
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, he wished to ask Mr. Attorney General, When the Courts of Justice (Money) Bill will be introduced by the Government?
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  begged to inquire of the noble Marquess the Under Secretary for War, the reason for the increase from £56,000 to £58,000 in the establishment charges for this year?
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he could see no difficulty in presenting accurate Estimates.
 MR. LAYARD  said, in answer to the Question of the hon. Gentleman, he had to state that the case to which he alluded was, as far as Her Majesty's Government was aware, going through the ordinary stages in a Prize Court. Despatches had been received from our Consul at New Orleans saying that the inquiry was still progressing. Her Majesty's Government did not see that there was anything in the case which called for any special interference on their part.
 MR. LAYARD  replied, that the Government had not received any official communication announcing that the Emperor of Brazil had accepted the mediation offered by the King of Portugal, but he had seen it stated in the newspapers that the Emperor of Brazil had announced his intention of accepting that mediation. The impression of the Portuguese Minister at this Court was, that a satisfactory communication would shortly be made to Her Majesty's Government on the subject. He believed the offer was one of mediation, not of good offices. Since the suspension of relations, no communication had taken place between Her Majesty's Government and the Government of Brazil, and consequently no reply had been received to the despatch of Earl Russell. He (Mr. Layard) thought it would be better not to produce any of the Correspondence at present, as there was reasonable ground for hoping that relations would be speedily resumed between the two Governments.
 MR. DISRAELI : I am, Sir, unwilling to embarrass Her Majesty's Government at the present time, but it does appear to me that, in the existing critical state of affairs, the House of Commons ought to be kept acquainted in general terms with the progress of the Conference; and I hope that, notwithstanding the ludicrous light-in which hon. Gentlemen opposite appear to view this important Question, I may be permitted to ask, Whether it is true that the Conference has again adjourned; and,
 26
 MR. NEATE  said, the Committee had just reduced the Army Hospital Vote by £2,000—a Vote which involved the medical comforts of the soldier, and concurrently with it they were about to expend this large sum of money in a very useless manner.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, that the present measure was intended to supply an omission in the first Bill. By the former Act the Assessment Committee had no
 84
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS,  in reply, said, he was of opinion that the Select Committee on Poor Relief would make their Report very shortly, and therefore in time for legislation on the subject. With respect to what measure the Government would bring forward founded on that Report, he would, if his hon. Friend would allow him, prefer to give an-answer to that Question when the Government had received that Report.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  replied, that the whole of the documents enumerated had not reached either the Foreign Office or his Department, but he would lay on the table those which had been received.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  begged to ask what the intentions of the Government were with respect to clothing the Volunteers. The force had now passed out of its experimental state, and had become one of the institutions of the country. Was it, then, reasonable to suppose that a body of 160,000 men, on which the safety of the country in a great measure
 47 s
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he did not think any sufficient answer had been given to the statements he had made. It i was all very well for the noble Lord the
 51 s
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, he wished to ask the President of the Poor Law Board,
 20
 COLONEL EDWARDS  said, he was not aware whether the hon. Member for Lam-
 46
 MR. HUSSEY VIVIAN  said, he had commanded a Volunteer battalion since the commencement of the movement, and had made the best calculations he could in regard to its expenses, and his conviction was that the allowance now proposed would be sufficient with good management to meet almost every outlay connected with the corps, including clothing. Of course, it would not do so in the first year; but, taking an average of several years, he had no doubt the allowance would suffice. New clothing would not be required until next year when they would have three years money in hand. The Volunteer corps received great assistance from the services of the adjutants; and he did not think any portion of the Vote was better spent than that which went to the adjutants. Good drill sergeants were also an absolute necessity.
 MR. HUSSEY VIVIAN  said, he believed that the hon. Baronet the Member for Westminster (Sir John Shelley) had not drawn the necessary distinction between the consolidated and the administrative corps.
 MR. HUSSEY VIVIAN  said, he was glad to hear that the attention of the Government was about to be directed to the question of breech-loading arms. He entirely concurred in the concluding remarks of the noble Marquess the Under Secretary for War. He thought that Earl de Grey had not sufficient grounds before him to justify an entire change in the rifles we were manufacturing. There was no practical difference between the Lancaster and the service Enfield up to 500 yards, within which range a battle would be fought, At 800 yards, the mean difference in favour of the Lancaster rifle was only two inches, and there was, therefore, no good reasons for the Secretary of State to go into an alteration of the whole system. It was found, on an average, that the small bore Whitworth had a figure of merit
 63
 MR. MACKIE  begged to move the reduction of the Vote by £10,000.
 MR. BLAKE  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether he can state if the case of the barque  Science
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the method which had been adopted with reference to the present Bill was a perfectly correct one, and that there was no occasion to introduce it in a Committee of the Whole House.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he thought the House was entitled to an explanation of the Bill.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he did not object to the second reading of the Bill, but he thought the forms of the House should be adhered to. In Bills proposing indemnities for penalties due to the Crown it was usual to introduce them in a Committee of the whole House. The right hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General had told them the nature of the indemnity, but he had not told the House the amount of the penalties which the noble Marquess the Under Secretary for War had incurred. He had been informed by a curious Friend that they amounted to £153,000. He was glad to vote the noble Marquess out of those difficulties.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he wished to point out that the House of Lords had struck out the clause which empowered the guardians to bury a member of a poor family without compelling the whole family to enter the workhouse. He begged to move that the House disagree with the Lords Amendment.
 MR. MAGUIRE  begged to inquire whether the clothing made by the Government
 80
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he rose to ask Mr. Attorney General for Ireland, Whither he considers the Tenure and Improvement of Land Act of 1860 a sufficient protection for the Irish tenant, and a sufficient inducement to the expenditure of the tenant's capital, labour, and skill in effecting improvements; and if he considers the existing Law to be deficient, either as a stimulus to increased exertion or as a protection for the enjoyment of its results, is he prepared to advise Her Majesty's Government to introduce a measure either now or at a future time with a view to its amendment?
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  said, he hoped that the noble Lord the Under Secretary for War would give some information on the subject of a question he had put to him some time since, relative to the evil in a medical and moral point of view incident to the collection of troops in garrison towns. He could not help thinking that the medical charges could be considerably reduced by proper arrangements. It was a subject which deserved consideration in the interest of the soldier and of the public. Infectious diseases might often be prevented as well as cured, and he believed that great social as well as physical benefits might be looked for from such an inquiry. The subject to which he referred had been treated at some length in  The Times
 MR. MACAULAY  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether it he true that
 19 "Her Majesty's Government hope that the Government of Brazil will, in its future intercourse with Great Britain, through whatever channel that intercourse may be carried on, act with that courtesy which is usual between Governments; and also that the Brazilian Government will, without further delay, frankly enter into the communication of their views as to the means by which a settlement of the long pending claims may best be arrived at."
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL  said, he rose to ask the Chief Secretary for Ifeland, Whether the Government have received any report of the malicious burning on the night of the 21st instant, of the outhouses of John Kelly, of Ballinbeg, near Moate, in the county of Westmeath, whereby twelve head of cattle, and property to the value of nearly £200, were consumed; whether this John Kelly is the same party who successfully prosecuted at the Slimmer Assizes, 1862, in Mullingar, Patrick Eagan and the two Duigans, who were then convicted and sentenced by Chief Justice Monaghan to the heaviest punishment the law sanctioned for the crime they had committed, and who were liberated by the Lord Lieutenant before the term of their sentence had expired; and upon whose recommendation the Lord Lieutenant ordered the release, of these men, and whether any reference was made to the Judge who tried them, or to the Lieutenant of the county, before such a step was taken?
 MR. HUMBERSTON  said, that the allowance from the Government, was extremely handsome, and as it depended upon the members of each corps whether they received the full amount, they had no right to complain if they had not sufficient funds through members not qualifying Still he feared that those regiments which had to re-clothe themselves this year might have some difficulty in meeting that cost and providing for ordinary expenses. The corps to which he belonged had to re clothe this year, and they would be deficient by a very considerable sum. Still he made no complaint; that would be contrary to the wishes of the corps He was certain the Volunteers did not wish for the extraneous aids of balls mid bazaars which were very objectionable. He did not ask for anything at the present moment, but he thought an allowance should be made to pay current expenses, and to provide clothing for those men who did not clothe themselves.
 MR. COBDEN : I wish to say a word or two in reference to the larger question that has been raised by the hon. Baronet the Member for Evesham (Sir Henry Willoughby). I think he has put his finger on the blot in our expenditure under this head, when he refers to the great increase in our Government manufacturing establishments. It has struck me this Session particularly how enormously we have increased the amount of wages we are paying in our different establishments. Now, for the first year or two after I obtained a seat in this House—in 1841, under Sir Robert Peel's administration — we voted about £600,000 for wages in our dockyard establishments at home and abroad. We have this year voted £1,340,000 for wages in our dockyard establishments at home and abroad; and we have voted in addition £450,000 for vessels built by private contract, which, of course, would imply a very large increase in the amount of labour for shipbuilding. So that, in fact, the sum we are paying under this head for the navy this year amounts to nearly three times as much as we paid in
 67 68 69
 MR. DALGLISH  said, he had understood that the manufacture of large guns at Woolwich had been entirely abandoned. [The Marquess of HARTINGTON: They are not making 110-pounders.] The noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty (Lord Clarence Paget) acknowledged that the Armstrong guns were not a great success, but he alluded to two guns, the Frederick and the Somerset, which he hoped would prove to be a great success. He should like to know how many guns the Admiralty had to show for an expenditure of £249,000 at Woolwich? He should also be glad to know how many guns, and of what description, would be turned out at Woolwich for the sum of £237,000 which was now asked? He did not agree with, the noble Marquess that the manufacturing establishments in the public arsenals were conducted as cheaply as the establishments of private individuals, because when the Government went to a private individual they could stop the order if they did not like what they got, but when they manu-
 73
 MR. O'HAGAN  said, in reply, that Mr. Inspector Sheridan had made no such Report. With regard to the second Question asked by the hon. Member, he would state that no orders had been given to Mr. Inspector Sheridan by the Commissioners or any one else to prevent him from making such a Report. The Rules referred to by the hon. Member were not considered by the Commissioners or by himself to involve any fundamental change in the present system, and they had not, therefore, been submitted to the Lord Lieutenant for his sanction. His Excellency had, however, seen them. The House would have the opportunity of considering the subject, because the Rules would not come into operation until the Education Estimates had received the sanction of the House.
 MR. O'HAGAN (THE ATTORNEY GENERAL. FOR IRELAND)  said, in reply to the somewhat novel Question of the hon. Member, that he hoped the measure referred to would have a more practical operation than it had yet had; but if he were to give an opinion upon the subject, he must also give the reasons of that opinion, and that would lead him into making a speech, which would not be in accordance with the roles of the House. In reply to the second Question, he must decline to state what advice he had given nr would in future give in his official capacity to Her Majesty's Government, but that advice would be based upon a sincere desire to promote the welfare of Ireland.
 MR. MORRISON  said, he should have been glad to have been informed somewhat more fully what steps had been taken towards employing soldiers in trades for the use of their regiments. He could bear testimony of the effect in the French army of the employment of the men in trade, in the readiness with which French soldiers were able to adapt themselves to all circumstances. Great benefits had been derived from the exertions of Captain Jackson at Gibraltar.
 MR. ANGERSTEIN  said, he wished to draw the attention of the House to the difference between the number of soldiers' wives now permitted to embark with a regiment for foreign service and the number permitted to reside in barracks at
 27
 MR. COX  said, he wished to know whether the space allotted to the Civil Service Club did not include 18,000 square yards?
 MR. GREGORY  said, he would beg to ask the First Commissioner of Works,
 22
 MR. MASSEY  said, he had not interrupted the hon. and gallant Member for Longford (Major O'Reilly) who wished to rectify a former mis-statement; but his explanation having been made and commented upon by the right hon. and gallant Member for Huntingdon (General Peel), he trusted the Committee would now revert to the original subject under consideration.
 MR. MASSEY  said, that no Resolution in Committee of Supply could be postponed. It could only be withdrawn, amended, or negatived.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that if some of the items in the French Estimates were stereotyped, so was the strength of the French army. But the cost of the manufacturing departments in the two countries, as far as warlike stores were concerned, admitted of a very close and rigid comparison. He found that the cost per bead for warlike stores was in England £12 2 s d s d
 COLONEL SYKES  said, the hon. Member for Rochdale (Mr. Cobden) had complained that since he entered Parliament upwards of £500,000,000 had been spent upon our army and navy, and he had never known an instance in which a Vote for either service had been reduced. But whose fault was it? Was it not that of hon. Members themselves who did not attend when the Estimates were being voted? He had seen on one occasion only thirteen Members in the House when hundreds of thousands were voted away, and that very night he had counted and found only twenty-three Members present. There were sixteen or seventeen Gentlemen who never failed to attend when the Estimates were on, but they became disgusted because they did not receive the support which they ought to have got from those who professed to be economists. And then, when a division came on, those sixteen or seventeen Gentlemen counted for little against the reserves of the Treasury Bench, who were brought in from the lobby, the library, and the smoking-room, to overwhelm them. But the country also was in fault. Why did the constituencies send representatives to that House who did not do their duty? The country might depend upon it, and he had told his own constituents so, there would be no reduction of expenditure until the constituencies took a pledge from their representatives that they would attend in the House whenever the Estimates were under discussion. Now £973,000 was about to be expended upon eleven different establishments, but what was the country to get for that money—how many guns, what number of small arms? The Committee had no means of judging from the papers before them. There was nothing but lump sums set down—no quantities of materials, no prices whatever. How, then, could the Committee possibly exercise its judgment as to the necessities of the demand? He would give the Committee a contrast. He held in his hand an exact copy of a similar Vote in the French Estimates, which was now being discussed in Paris, and in it was set down the prices, the quantities, the numbers of guns and of small arms that were wanted for the year, the quantities [165,000] of bronze at 2f. 60 centimes the kilogramme, the quantities [35,000] and prices of copper, zinc, tin, &c., the
 74 s d s d
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that on comparing the cost of medical men, medicines, Hospital Corps, and other necessary appliances for maintaining the health of the army, he found that in England it was at the rate of £1 11 s d 1 s d
 COLONEL SYKES  rose to address the House—
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he wished to ask the noble Marquess the Under Secretary for War, whether he was aware that the Commanders-in-Chief at Madras and Bombay had issued a circular inviting medical officers of Her Majesty's army to take charge of the new regiments in India? He thought it would be much better if they employed the medical officers of the old East Indian army, who from long experience were better acquainted with the diseases incident to the climate. He wanted to know whether a calculation was made that a certain number of men would be in hospital during the year, and that a certain amount of medicine and necessaries for diet would be required; or did the War Department go upon chance? In the French army the calculation was made upon the fixed basis that one man in twenty-five, or 4 per cent, was always in hospital.
 COLONEL SYKES  begged to inquire whether the noble Marquess had received a single report from any officer in any part of the kingdom, stating that he had assembled or seen together in any one place a body of Army Reserve men in any number from two to a dozen.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he feared that unless some assistance were given to the men to enable them to supply themselves with their present, or with some cheaper uniform, some diminution would take place in the strength of the force. The capitation grant of 20s. or  30s 48
 COLONEL SYKES : What is it?
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he was sorry the Government had placed that Vote in the Estimates after it had been withdrawn. The army had many auxiliary forces, but the only one in which the country placed no confidence, was that of the Yeomanry. It was a force kept up as a plaything for country gentlemen and others.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he was very; much gratified by the very moderate requirements of the Volunteers. They were a most efficient and useful force, and the greatest possible credit was due to then commanding officers for being satisfied: with the sum which had been granted. He hoped the time would never arrive when the House of Commons would make any objection to the continuance of such an al-
 50
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  begged to inquire how it was that Vote was £266,000 less than that of last year.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the Annual Indemnity Bill was introduced in the way that the present Bill had been brought forward, and not in Committee.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that the hon. Member had made a slight mistake. Hutchinson had not been indicted for a conspiracy, and he was released at the end of eighteen months, and not sixteen, as stated by the hon. Member. That commutation of his sentence took place upon the express recommendation of the Judge by whom the sentence was passed. Very soon after the conviction, the learned Judge informed the Under Secretary of State that though he had deemed it to be necessary at the time of the trial to pass a severer sentence upon Hutchinson than upon the other prisoners, yet the evidence was not so conclusive in his case as it was in that of Dodd. But for some circumstances which had occurred, the Judge said he believed the jury would have taken that fact into consideration in deciding upon their verdict. There was a great difference between four years' penal servitude and the other two terms of imprisonment, in the one case twelve months, and in the other two years, and he had intended after a time to recommend a mitigation of the sentence he had passed. He subsequently expressly recommended that Hutchinson should be discharged, and, in accordance with that recommendation, he was liberated after undergoing eighteen months' imprisonment.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : The Conference met yesterday, and has been adjourned till Monday next, but I cannot state the reason. It is the opinion of the members of the Conference that it is essential to the success of the Conference itself that their proceedings should be strictly private. It is, therefore, quite out of my power to inform the right hon. Gentleman why, on yesterday, it was adjourned till Monday.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he believed that, in the event of emergency, men as capable of commanding large bodies of troops would arise among the Volunteers as were to be found in any other force in the country. He should be sorry if, through any pecuniary pressure, any diminution in the number of that valuable force should take place. He feared, however, that unless some help were given in the matter of clothing, many of our most valuable Volunteer corps would melt away.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  begged to inquire what steps had been taken, in accordance with the recommendations of a Committee and a Commission, for employing soldiers in trades. The health, morality, and efficiency of the service, as well as a great saving of expense to the country, would be promoted by a much more extensive employment of soldiers on work of that description than had hitherto been practised. There was an item in that Estimate of £5,000 for reading and recreation rooms. He was informed that the establishment of those rooms in our garrison towns had exercised a most important influence upon the character of the soldier, and that where they existed crimes had much diminished. The first soldiers' institute was established at Gibraltar by Captain Jackson, and was most successful while it remained under the supervision of its founder. Since then, however, the number of soldiers who belonged to it had greatly fallen off; and he would suggest that Captain Jackson should be sent back on service to Gibraltar, to renew his exertions on behalf of an Institution which had produced so much benefit to the garrison there, and also to assist in establishing' similar Institutions at other Mediterranean stations. It was desirable that the House should have a Return of the number of our soldiers in garrisons at home or abroad who were educated and trained to different trades.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  observed, that the Vote was one that raised several very important questions. In the first place, he would point out the very unsatisfactory manner in which those Estimates were drawn up. According to the last accounts, which enabled him to compare Votes with actual expenditure, it appeared that the amount taken for wages and stores in one year was a third more than actually proved to be necessary. He was not disposed to enter into the question of the relative merits or demerits of our rifles, but he wished to draw the attention of the Committee to the fact, that for the last four years £9,250,000 had been voted for the two Votes more immediately under discussion. The House knew little on the subject, and the little which it did know was learnt, unfortunately, two years after the expenditure was incurred. The Committee ought, therefore, to weigh well the point before they gave their sanction to those two Votes involving a sum of £972,000, particularly when it was borne in mind that they had no information as to the stock in hand. Our store accounts were inferior to those of the French, because there was no one to answer for that Department, which was formerly called the Ordnance. It would, of course, be unfair to expect the noble Marquess, who so ably represented the War Department in the House, to reply to every question of detail, and it must be borne in mind that since 1855 great changes had taken place, to
 64 65
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, there was one remarkable omission in the Army Estimates, and that was as to the number of persons employed in the different establishments. Formerly that information was supplied, and as it was undesirable to lose it, he hoped the noble Marquess the Under Secretary for War; would follow the example of Sir George ' Lewis in 1862, and supply that information in a separate paper. The House had voted the sum of £119,000 as the balance of Indian disallowances. He wished to know the number of years over which the settlement ran; whether other and larger sums had not been disallowed by the Indian authorities, and, if so, out of what grants, and by what authority, those sums were paid? If the noble Marquess could nut reply to that Question offhand, perhaps he would explain the facts by means of a Parliamentary paper. He wished the noble Marquess also to explain how it happened that a large sum of money which was received on account of the sale of certain public land, or land held in trust by the Crown, at Brighton, did not appear in the War Office accounts? He wished to know whether that office was not the proper department to receive and account for the same?
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he wished to ask Mr. Attorney General for Ireland, as a Commissioner of National Education, Whether Inspector Sheridan has ever made the Report on Convent Schools referred to in his Report laid upon the table, 6th April, 1864, by the following words, "I have it in view to inspect all the Convent Schools in my group of districts as soon as I can command sufficient time, and to make them the subject of a Special Report;" whether any orders were given to him not to make such Report; whether the revised Rules of the Board, dated the 21st November, 1863, as to Convent and Monastical Schools, have been approved of by the Lord Lieutenant; and whether care will be taken that these Rules he not acted upon until this House shall have had an opportunity of expressing its opinion upon them?
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India to lay upon the table of the House the following additional Correspondence on the affairs
 18
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he was quite sure the feeling of the corps he coin mantled, which consisted very largely of working men, and the feeling of the Volunteers generally, was that the House and country had dealt most literally with then;, and they excessively disliked the idea, of coining begging to Parliament. It might he true that Volunteers in the country had greater distances to go to drill, hut they could obtain bead-quarters and range? at a much cheaper rate than the metropolitan corps. He thought the Royal Commission had made a very proper recommendation; and, in his opinion, the allowance made would, with due economy, enable every regiment to re-clothe and maintain itself.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he agreed with the remarks of the hon. Baronet (Sir William Jolliffe). He must ask for more time for consideration of the Bill before it went into Committee. Unless the Government gave an assurance to that effect he should object to the second reading.
 SIR ROBERT ANSTRUTHER  begged to point out to the Committee that a great difficulty arose in many cases where the men had to travel a considerable distance for battalion drill. That was a source of pecuniary pressure on country corps, and ought to be taken into consideration by the Government. Members of his own regiment had to travel forty, fifty, and even sixty miles for that purpose.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, in reply, that the Government had received some report with reference to the burning of the properly, not, however, of John Kelly, as stated by the hon. Member, but of Patrick Kelly. He was informed that that person had laid no information against any one, and that he was not examined at the Assizes, although be was summoned to attend. Two of the persons referred to by the lion. Member in his Question were out of the country at the time of the malicious burning, one of them having
 23
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he hoped the hon. Member for the King's County (Mr. Hennessy) would not press his Motion to a division, as such a course might bring that House into collision with the other House of Parliament.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  begged to suggest that the Chairman do now report Progress.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  said, he thought that the Vote was so important that he must move that the Chairman report Progress.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  said, the question raised was an important one, but the best way of testing it was not by reducing but by postponing the Vote until some definite conclusion was arrived at as to what was proper to be done in the matter. There ought to be a Select Committee or Royal Commission on the subject, in order that the country might be satisfied that a large expenditure was not being recklessly incurred. He begged to move the postponement of the Vote.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  said, he believed the sum allowed by the Government, if expended by commanding officers with economy, and with proper regard to the well-being of their corps, would be found
 49
 MR. LAWSON  said, he rose to oppose the Vote which had come before the House under very peculiar circumstances. Hon. Members who sat on the Ministerial side of the House would remember that on the
 43 The Times "The Yeomanry Cavalry.—A numerous deputation of Yeomanry Cavalry officers had an interview with Lord Palmerston at Cambridge House, on Wednesday morning, for the purpose of urging upon the noble Lord the desirability of calling out that force for active service during the present year. The Premier, after listening to their statements, said, that since the last Vote in the House of Commons upon Colonel Edwards' Motion, the Government had carefully considered the subject. Within the last few days advices had been received from New Zealand, which were so favourable that the Government would be enabled to effect a saving upon the Estimates and incur the expense of training of the Yeomanry without any addition to the gross amount. He had great pleasure, therefore, in informing the deputation that the force would be called out as usual this year. The noble Viscount also complimented the Yeomanry Cavalry upon their high state of efficiency, and the value of their services whenever they had been required, and expressed an unqualified opinion that they were a necessary auxiliary to the new Rifle Volunteer force." 44
 SIR WILLIAM FRASER  said, he entirely agreed with the noble Marquess, that soldiers institutes were most successful when connected with the regimental system. He thought that commanding officers would run great risks of making their men slatternly if they employed them too much in other than regimental duties.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  begged to direct attention to the dilapidated state of the buildings in the North Camp at Alder-shot. There was an item for the conversion of Haslar Barracks into an hospital. He presumed that the hospital would be a military one for the Portsmouth garrison. Another item which required some explanation was the Vote with regard to the Naval Stores at Bermuda.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  begged to suggest that no appeal should lie from the mere fact of a man being assessed by the Assessment Committee, unless he first applied for the re-hearing of his case. Upon such an application he could take the appeal to the special petty sessions or the quarter sessions, but two appeals were unnecessary.
 LORD STANLEY  said, in reply, that the clauses had been referred to the General Committee, with the intention that they should Report to the House whether they ought or ought not to be adopted. That inquiry would take place, but they understood that it was likely that objections would be taken to those clauses by parties interested in railways, and it would not be just, therefore, that a decision should be come to without allowing those parties to appear before the Committee.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he wished to ask the noble Lord the Member for Huntingdonshire (Lord Robert Montagu), If he would object to an Instruction being moved to the Committee appointed "to inquire into any plans for dealing with the Sewage of the Metropolis and other large Towns, with a view to its utilization to agricultural purposes," that they do inquire into the effects of discharging sewage into the brooks or rivers?
 MR. DARBY GRIFFTH  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether the  Aurora
 MR. GRANT DUFF : Sir, I am sure that I shall not be accused of using mere words of course, if I say that the Question to which I venture to ask for a time the attention of the House, is one of the most important that can possibly come before us. It is, Sir, a very large and a very difficult Question, but it has one peculiarity which may be taken as a set off against its magnitude and its complications. It is, at least, no party Question. It lies above and altogether out of the reach of the conflicting opinions which divide the two sides of this Assembly, and nothing but the most perverse ingenuity could enable any one to show that Conservatives and Liberals are bound to think differently upon any one of the issues which are likely to be raised in our discussion to-night. The Commission, to the Report of which I am calling attention, was appointed, as many hon. Members will recollect, nearly three years ago. Its immediate occasion, though not its cause, was the controversy which had arisen in the periodical press about the state of Eton; a controversy which was at first angry, but which before it closed became on both sides more amicable. It was at one time proposed that the area over which the inquiry was to extend should be considerably wider than it actually was. The schools and collegiate bodies, which were ultimately marked out for inquiry, were Eton, Winchester, Westminster, Harrow, Rugby, St. Paul's, Merchant Taylors', Charter House, and Shrewsbury. The Commission was very fairly selected; it included one distinguished Member of this House, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Stamford; three Members of the other branch of the Legislature, Lord Clarendon, Lord Devon, and Lord Lyttleton, selected, I presume,
 106 107 "The education appears to us sound and valuable in its main elements, but wanting in breadth and flexibility—defects which, in our judgment, destroy in many cases, and impair in all, its value as an education of the mind; and which are made more prominent at the present time by the extension of knowledge in various directions, and by the multiplied requirements of modern life." "We have been unable to resist the conclusion that these schools, in very different degrees, are too indulgent to idleness, or struggle ineffectually with it, and that they consequently send out a large proportion of men of idle habits and empty and uncultivated minds." "If a youth, after four or five years spent at school, quits it at nineteen, unable to construe an easy bit of Latin or Greek without the help of a dictionary, or to write Latin grammatically, almost ignorant of geography and of the history of his own country, unacquainted with any modern language but his own, and hardly competent to write English correctly, to do a simple sum, or stumble through an easy proposition of Euclid, a total stranger to the laws which govern the physical world, and to its structure, with an eye and hand unpractised in drawing, and without knowing a note of music, with an uncultivated mind and no taste for reading or observation, his intellectual education must certainly be accounted a failure, though there may be no fault to find with his principles, character, or manners. We by no means intend to represent this as a type of the ordinary product of English public school education; but speaking both from the evidence we have received and from opportunities of observation open to all, we must say that it is a type much more common than it ought to be, making ample allowance for the difficulties that have to be contended with, and that the proportion of failures is therefore unduly large." 108 "Very few can construe with accuracy a piece from an author they profess to have read. We never try them with an unseen passage; it would be useless to do so. Tolerable Latin prose is very rare; perhaps one piece in four is free from bad blunders; a good style is scarcely ever seen. The answers we get to simple grammar questions are very inaccurate." "In some cases, as will more fully appear hereafter, the governing body was designed for a school very unlike that which it now has to govern. We are of opinion that in most cases, either from this cause or from the altered circumstances of the times, some modifications in the governing body have become necessary, and that, unwise as it certainly would be, in this as in other respects, to aim at mere uniformity, there are some common features which should generally belong to the governing body of a great public school. Such a body should be permanent in itself, being the guardian and trustee of the permanent interests of the school; though not unduly large, it should be protected by its numbers and by the position and character of its individual members from the domination of personal or local interests, of personal or professional influences or prejudices; and we should wish to see it include men conversant with the world, with the requirements of active life, and with the progress of literature and science." 109 110 111 post hoc ergo propter hoc "Depend upon it, no man ever wrote well by striving too hard to write well. English can only be well written by following the golden rule which Englishmen follow, or ought to follow, and that rule is never to try deliberately to write it well." 112 113 114 115 I cannot but be of opinion that if a school can include one Frenchman and one German on its staff, for the purpose of correcting pronunciation and looking over the higher kinds of composition, and can then entrust the greater part of the French and German teaching to Englishmen who have had a University education, and who, having lived abroad, are thoroughly versed in the foreign language which they undertake to teach, the work will be far more effectively done than by any other arrangement. "Natural science, with such slight exceptions as we have noticed above, is practically excluded from the education of the higher classes in England. This exclusion is, in our view, a plain defect and a great practical evil. It narrows unduly and injuriously the mental training of the young, and the knowledge, interests, and pursuits of men in maturer life. Natural science quickens and cultivates directly the faculty of observation, which in very many persons lies dormant through life, the power of accurate and rapid generalization, and the mental habit of method and arrangement; it accustoms young persons to trace the sequence of cause and effect; it familiarises them with a kind of reasoning which interests them, and which they can promptly comprehend; and it is perhaps the best corrective for that indolence which is the vice of half-awakened minds, and which shrinks from any exertion that is not, like an effort of memory, merely mechanical. With sincere respect for the opinions of the eminent schoolmasters who differ from us in this matter, we are convinced that the introduction of the elements of natural science into the regular course of study is desirable, and we see no sufficient reason to doubt that it is practicable." 116 "Every boy should be required, before admission to the school, to pass an entrance examination, and to show himself well grounded for his age in classics and arithmetic, and in the elements of either French or German." 117 "Nor need its imposing name seem to disqualify it for a subject of examination in the middle and even lower forms of a public school, 'Greek,' which was once the synonym of 'abstruse' and 'unintelligible,' is now a subject in which boys of the lowest forms of public schools are daily examined. Natural science, however, like a classical language, has not only its elements, but its grammar, its accidence, so to speak, and even its alphabet, in each of which judicious and considerate examiners will be able to test the soundness of the knowledge of the least proficient," "No boy should be suffered to remain in the school who fails to make reasonable progress in it.
 118 119 "The principle of governing boys mainly through their own sense of what is right and honourable is undoubtedly the only true principle; but it requires much watchfulness, and a firm, temperate, and judicious administration to keep up the tone and standard of opinion, which are very liable to fluctuate, and the decline of which speedily turns a good school into a bad one." "The system of fagging should be likewise watched; fags should be relieved from all services which may be more properly performed by servants, and care should be taken that neither the time which a little boy has for preparing his lessons, nor the time which he has for play, should be encroached upon unduly." 120 "It is not easy to estimate the degree in which the English people are indebted to these schools for the qualities on which they pique themselves most—for their capacity to govern others and control themselves, their aptitude for combining freedom with order, their public spirit, their vigour and manliness of character, their strong but not slavish respect for public opinion, their love for healthy sports and exercise. These schools have been the chief nurseries of our statesmen; in them, and in schools modelled after them, men of all the various classes that make up English society, destined for every profession and career, have been brought up on a footing of social equality, and have contracted the most enduring friendships, and some of the ruling habits of their lives; and they have had, perhaps, the largest share in moulding the character of an English gentleman. The system, like other systems, has its blots and imperfections; there have been times when it was at once too lax and too severe—severe in its punishments, but lax in superintendence and prevention; it has permitted, if not encouraged, some roughness, tyranny, and licence, but these defects have not seriously marred its wholesome operation, and it appears to have gradually purged itself from them in a remarkable degree. Its growth, no doubt, is largely due to those very qualities in our national character which it has itself contributed to form; but justice bids us add that it is due likewise to the wise munificence which founded the institutions under whose shelter it has been enabled to take root, and to the good sense, temper, and ability of the men by whom, during successive generations, they have been governed." 121 Edinburgh "A system of mental training which comprehends almost every subject by which the minds of boys can be enlarged and invigorated a traditional spirit amongst the boys of respect and honour for intellectual work; a system of discipline which, while maintaining the noble and wholesome tradition of public schools, that the able and more industrious should command and govern the rest, still holds in reserve amaturer discretion to moderate excess, quiet uncertainty, and also to support the legitimate exercise of power; a system of physical training which, while it distinguishes the strong, strengthens the studious and spares the weak; a religious cultivation, which, though active, is not overstrained, but leaves something for solemn occasions to bring out. Such are some of the general conditions which have presented themselves to notice during our investigation. They go far also, we think, to explain that public confidence which the school has for many years possessed, and never since the days of Arnold in larger measure than at tin: present moment." 122 mens in corpore Life of Arnold 123 124 125 126 127
 SIR HERVEY BRUCE  said, he rose to move—
 "That it was not just to charge on the poor rate in Ireland the expenses connected with the registry of voters and of births and deaths; and that it be an instruction to the Committee appointed on the subject of taxation in Ireland to consider how such expenses may be more equiatbly charged." 144 s s s 145 s s s d s d s d d d d
 SIR HERVEY BRUCE  said, he would withdraw his Motion.
 MR. DIGBY SEYMOUR  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he is aware that the practice still prevails of transporting Convicts and Vagrants from the Channel Islands to Southampton and other southern seaports. For a long series of years a custom had prevailed of deporting the criminal population of the Channel Islands to the southern ports of England, the peace and security of the inhabitants of which were thereby endangered. A memorial forwarded to the Government from the Mayor and corporation of Southampton stated that, within the last ten years, upwards of 1,000 persons convicted of housebreaking, robbery, and other felonies had been banished from Jersey and Guernsey and landed on the shore of Southampton and permitted to go at large, and that vagrants had also been landed there in like manner, by which proceeding the amount for the casual poor was increased. In a book written by one of the witnesses examined before the Royal Commission of 1847 on the criminal law of Jersey and Guernsey, it was stated that burglary was punished by deportation to England for a term of years, and the offenders were shipped off one or two at a time, lest the landing of many convicts at once among the peaceable inhabitants of the neighbouring ports should give rise to complaint. Convicts, who had been sentenced to three, five, and seven years' imprisonment, were sent to any part of England which they might choose, while persons charged with minor offences were often induced to quit the Islands before trial, their travelling expenses being paid, and they ordinarily went to Southampton, Practically, that brought the evil of transportation home to our very doors, Within the last two or three years there had been more than thirty cases of persons who had left the Channel Islands either in conse-
 151
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, the Irish police were rather a gendarmerie than a police force. But he contended that the cost of the Irish police force was really borne by the people of Ireland. Ireland ought not to be taxed for an object which was not equally the subject of a tax in England and Scotland.
 SIR HERVEY BRUCE  said, that when Sir Robert Peel refrained originally from extending the income tax to Ireland, additional taxation was imposed on stamps and spirits. Those charges had been maintained, although the income tax, since added, produced a revenue of £700,000.
 MR. PACKE  said, that the Bill confounded the innocent with the guilty, and deprived the sober man of his beer because others got drunk. That was a kind of legislation the House ought never to agree to. The case of Scotland was entirely different to that of England. There malt liquor was not the beverage of the people who drank whisky, which could be kept at home, whereas beer could not. He should vote against the introduction of the Bill.
 MR. DENMAN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether the number, 46, given in the 18th column of page 53 of the Criminal Returns for England and Wales for 1852, as that of persons found "Not Guilty on Trial," includes, or does not include, any persons tried upon a charge of Murder and found guilty of Manslaughter only?
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he could not admit that there had been any
 149 150
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET , in reply, said, he had to state that those trials were not by any means considered as final. The Admiralty had ordered practical trials at sea to take place as regarded the Welsh and North Country Coal, and the Reports of the experiments were to be made to the Admiralty.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : The last news we had of her was in a telegram today from Heligoland. She is there, and probably to ascertain the proceedings of the Austrian squadron.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : In answer, Sir, to the hon. Gentleman, I have to state that the  Aurora Aurora
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Yes, Sir, they have left the Downs, but I really cannot answer as to their destination.
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  begged to remind the Government that in the English Estimates a sum of nearly £300,000 was included for the support of County Courts in England, whereas the whole expense of such costs in Ireland was paid out of fees.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, that before the House passed from that Question he desired to enter a protest with respect to those Danish debates. The hon. Baronet the Member for Buckingham (Sir Harry Verney) had spoken more than once on that subject, and they frequently had these Danish debates interpolated, as it were, in their discussions, when strong statements were made by the hon. Baronet and other hon. Members, advocates of the; same cause. Now the enormous majority of that House sympathized with Denmark in that matter. But the Members of that; majority had shown themselves anxious not to mar any chances that might exist of the restoration of that peace which they all desired by obtruding themselves with unnecessary vehemence in the debates that had taken place. He feared, however, that that reticence and forbearance on their part had been misunderstood out of doors. The hon. Baronet and the other partizans of Germany in that House, who might be counted upon one's fingers, had, he believed, with great ingenuity and skill, by showing themselves repeatedly, and on every possible occasion and in every possi-
 166
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  replied, that the Committee had already to investigate a very large question, but if the right hon. Gentleman would bring forward a Motion as an Instruction to the Committee, he had no doubt they would arrive at some definite conclusion on the matter to which he referred. He also hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would allow himself to be added to the Committee.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he did not believe, if he might judge from the tenour of the House, that hon. Members were desirous of a long speech upon the subject, especially as a more solemn discussion was now going on upon that very important affair. He would, therefore, confine himself to the questions asked by his hon. and gallant Friend. He must, however, observe, that the doctrine laid down by the hon. Baronet, that the fact of a kingdom being as populous after its dismemberment as it was before was an excuse for its dismemberment, was most extraordinary, and one which he did not believe would be generally accepted. His hon. Friend had not accurately quoted the words he had made use of on the occasion of a former debate upon this subject. He had no doubt that his hon. Friend would remember that he was pointing out how dangerous it was for the House in discussing questions involving, as they did, the most comprehensive principles of International Law, to come to a hasty decision upon those questions, and that those matters had been discussed by some of the most celebrated legists of Europe. He also mentioned the powers of the States of Schleswig and Holstein. Those States were constitutional Parliaments, which, according to some, having the power of giving an opinion, and exercising an influence, upon any change in the succession, while others maintained that the only questions which they could claim to discuss were connected with matters of mere local interest. His hon. Friend had assumed that evening, what he regarded as very doubtful, the power of the States to discuss a change in the succession. He would remind his hon. Friend that the question was surrounded by too many difficulties to allow of its being decided by a mere  ipse dixit 163 Holsteinische Stönde Zeitung "The welfare of the people, the preservation or the loss of the greatest earthly benefits, not only for us, but also for the coming generations, depends upon a proper arrangement of the mutual relations between the different territories which now are united under the sceptre of His Majesty the King, and which also shall remain united as long as it pleases Providence, in accordance with an order of succession which has been fixed by our present Sovereign, with the assent of the great European Powers." "First, I would state that I never once heard His Majesty the King of Denmark spoken of but with respect and affection, while I did hear expressions to the effect that if he possessed the power he had the will to make his subjects happy and content. I met with but very few persons
 164 ritterschaft ritterschaft casus belli 165
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he rejoiced exceedingly that the noble Lord had elicited the true feeling of the House. As he had been personally alluded to by the hon. Baronet the Member for Buckingham (Sir Harry Verney), he trusted the hon. Baronet was now satisfied that when he spoke his opinion plainly he had some grounds for it. The hon. Baronet the Member for Reading (Sir Francis Goldsmid) had referred to foreign agitators who had disturbed the internal peace of Holstein and Schleswig. Not so very long ago Canada was invaded by sympathizers from the United States, just as the Duchies of Schleswig and Holstein had been; but the conduct of the Government of the United States on that occasion ought to be remembered for ever with gratitude by this country. They lent no countenance to that system of sympathizing or filibustering. On the contrary, in spite of the feeling of a portion of their own people, they acted loyally towards us and enabled us in every way to repress that unjustifiable aggression upon Canada. The reprehensible conduct of Germany towards Denmark in the present instance was in striking contrast to the honourable conduct of the United States in
 167
 MR. NEWDEGATE : I beg pardon, I will simply state that as England is the ally of Denmark, I do not think—["Order!"] I will put the Question of which I have given notice, and which in a great measure explains itself. I merely wish further to state that the contributions levied upon the people of Denmark—["Order!"] I cannot conceive that this is a matter of indifference to the House of Commons—["Order!]
 MR. NEWDEGATE : I beg your pardon, Sir; I see that certain hon. Members are combined to refuse the indulgence I asked, I will, therefore, simply put my Question, the terms of which, happily, explain my reasons for putting it. I therefore ask the right hon. Baronet, as the representative of the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether Her Majesty's Government intend to adopt any measures likely to be more effectual than those which have hitherto been attempted, for the purpose of relieving the People and King of Denmark from the oppression to which they are daily subjected?
 MR. NEWDEGATE : Sir, I have heard from the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary, with sincere regret, that the noble Lord at the head of the Government is not likely to be in his place to-night, and that it is also doubtful whether he will be here on Monday; but the right hon. Gentleman has also informed me that he will himself answer the Question which I have put upon the paper. I would crave the indulgence of the House, while I state very shortly the reasons for my putting this Question. A Conference of the Great Powers has been sitting, at which Austria, Prussia, Denmark, and England are represented; and it is understood that this Conference is to deliberate with reference to the immediate state of things incident to the war. England has not ceased to be the ally of Denmark; and whatever may be the feelings of the representatives of the other Powers—["Order order!"]
 MR. NEWDEGATE : It is without intending any disrespect to the Conference
 101
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that the practice complained of was only that which formerly existed with regard to writers who were nominated for India under the East India Company, the rule being that Indian service should be paid for in India, and not
 168
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH : I wish to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary, whether he has asked an explanation of the Admiralty as to the circumstances under which he, representing avowedly the Prime Minister in this House, was left in ignorance yesterday, and was placed in the painful position of not knowing and being allowed to deny what had been announced in a Government paper— namely, the fact of the sailing of the  Aurora
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH : Does the right hon. Baronet mean to say that he used the term "Baltic" in an exceptional sense?—that is to say, that he answered in the letter instead of in the spirit of the inquiry? I wish to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether he did not understand the question practically to be, whether the  Aurora
 MR. CARDWELL  replied that there was no intention of asking from the House, during the present Session, any guarantee for the Railway between Halifax and Quebec. The subject, however, had not been abandoned, and was still under the consideration of the several Colonies interested in the subject. There would be no objection to lay the additional Correspondence which had taken place on the table of the House if the hon. Member would move for it.
 MR. MACEVOY  said, he rose to move the following Resolution:—
 "That, in the opinion of this House, Her Majesty's Government should now adopt the recom-
 152
 MR. PEASE  begged to second the Motion. The subject of the proposed Bill only required to be better understood to be better appreciated. It had been proved to demonstration that the chief difficulty all our religious and philanthropic institutions had to contend with arose from the drinking customs of this country. Such wag the deliberate opinion of the judge upon the bench, the clergyman in the pulpit, the Sabbath School teacher, and others acquainted with the habits of the lower classes. The proposed Bill had on the face of it something so reasonable that he wag satisfied the House would allow it to be introduced, and he was persuaded that on further examination it would be found that the objections relative to an alleged interference with the private rights were not so cogent as some hon. Gentlemen supposed. He had the honour of representing a large constituency, and all classes had joined in requesting him to support the Bill.
 MR. HUSSEY VIVIAN  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether the experiments on the relative value of Welsh Steam Coal alone, and Welsh and North Country Coal mixed, detailed in the Return dated 15th February, 1864, are regarded by the Admiralty as final, or whether practical trials at sea upon this question are about to be made?
 MR. CLAY  said, he thought that the House ought to allow the Bill to be brought in, if it were only out of respect for the immense number of petitions which had been presented in its favour, more especially as various important modifications had been introduced into it in deference to the opinions expressed in the House last year.
 MR. BAGWELL  said, that the reason given by Sir Robert Peel for not dealing with the charge for medical relief in Ireland as it was dealt with in England and Scotland was that the law with respect to medical relief in that country was different from the law in Great Britain, and showed that if the law had been the same he would have dealt in a similar manner with the charge. The whole cost of the Irish constabulary was placed on the Consolidated Fund, in order to induce the Irish Members not to oppose the repeal of the Corn Laws in 1846. The law of Ireland with respect to medical relief was now the same as that of Great Britain, and the charge ought, therefore, to be provided for in the same manner in all the three kingdoms. As to the police of Ireland, it was now essentially a military force. He thought it would be unworthy of the English Government to resist such a Motion as the present. It was a simple matter of justice that ought to be conceded.
 MR. SPEAKER : I must request that the hon. Gentleman will put his Question.
 MR. SPEAKER : Any expressions of opinion on the part of the hon. Member are out of order.
 MR. SPEAKER : It is the rule of the House that a hon. Member putting a Question must confine himself strictly to the facts necessary to explain it.
 MR. HENNESSY  begged to second the Motion.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that subject was regarded with great interest in Ireland. A strong impression was growing up there among the people that they were grievously overtaxed, and that the Government was perpetually bringing in new Bills which in some way or other increased their taxation. At the same time, when any proposition was made to treat the poor more liberally in Ireland, the Government pointed at once to the present amount of the poor rates as an argument against any such reform. He was by no means satisfied with the arguments of the right hon.
 147
 MR. HENNESSY  begged to second the Motion.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that before the House divided he should like to answer the only two Ministers who had spoken upon the subject by quoting the words of a distinguished man, to whom they ought to pay a little respect. The late Sir Robert Peel said—
 "I believe it will be an immense advantage to place the police force of Ireland directly under the control of the Executive, to prevent the possibility of all interference by local bodies, to make the police as perfect a system as possible, excluding all power of local nomination or local interference, taking the whole conduct, in fact, under the Executive Government, and, in order to make the system as perfect as possible, paying the police out of the public treasury."
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he would not detain the House for many minutes, for there were two considerations which compelled him to be brief—one the lateness of the hour, and the other the fact that the introduction of a Bill was supposed to be a mere matter of courtesy. He had no fanatical hatred to the proposed measure; his only desire was to protect his countrymen in the fair enjoyment of their rights and liberties. As for the question of courtesy, he begged the House to recollect that though the present was said to be a different Bill from that which was decided last year, it was, in reality, the same. [ Cries of 171 Cries of 172 173
 MR. SOMES  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to impose restrictions on the sale of intoxicating liquors between eleven o'clock on Saturday night and six o'clock on Monday morning. The hon. Gentleman said that some explanation might be necessary with regard to this Bill, as it was different from that of last year. Last year his Bill proposed the total closing of public-houses on the Lord's Day. He gathered from the debate which occurred on the occasion of the second reading of the Bill, that the House thought some time was necessary to enable the public to get their dinner and supper beer on Sundays, and the absence of any such provision seemed to constitute the main objection to the Bill. But by the present measure he proposed to give an hour for getting the
 169 170
 MR. RICHARD HODGSON  said, he wished to ask the Chairman of the General Committee on Railway and Canal Bills, Whether the Committee will meet to consider the Clauses referred to them on the 26th day of April last by the House, so
 102
 MR. AYTOUN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies,
 100
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, there is one observation which I wish to add to what has fallen from the Chancellor of the Exchequer. But, first, I suppose that the hon. Gentleman who makes this Motion sees the propriety of not carrying it any further at present, inasmuch as this matter must be taken in hand, and properly so, by the Government, and also because the voluminous nature of the Report has precluded us from yet forming a judgment upon it. I have myself read the Report with great interest, but I own that I have not gone through all the evidence appended to it, and I should desire to refrain from expressing a premature opinion on this subject. The course, however, which the Government propose to adopt is, I think, the one most in harmony with the feeling of those who take a deep interest in this question—namely, that the matter should be left in the hands of the Government, in order that they may originate, say next Session, a proposition founded on this Report, when it is to be hoped that alike those concerned in these schools and Parliament itself, will be prepared to deal with the subject in the temper and spirit which befit it. The observation I wish to add to those addressed to the House by the Chancellor of the Exchequer is this. I, like my right hon. Friend, am connected with one of those great public schools. I mean Eton. I happen to know from the highest authorities there—indeed, I have their permission to say so—that since this Report has been in their hands they have taken all the recommendations of the Commissioners  seriatim 138
 MR. HORSFALL  said, he must express his surprise that the House, as an assembly of Gentlemen, should have tolerated the language of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck). The hon. and learned Member had no right to stigmatize nearly a million of his fellow: countrymen as "canting hypocrites," or
 175
 MR. SCULLY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether his attention has been directed to the proposed Act of American Congress providing for the reduction of Tonnage Dues on Emigrant Vessels, and for the appointment of a Government Commissioner of Emigration, who shall be empowered to contract for the importation of Emigrants, and for their transmission into the inland districts of the United States; and whether it is the intention of the present' Government to adopt any measures either towards diverting into some of Her Majesty's Colonies the increased and increasing Emigration from Ireland, or towards arresting that Emigration by providing industrial employment at home, or by reducing exorbitant taxation, or by improving the Land Laws, or by abolishing religious distinctions, or by conceding to Irishmen some participation in the government of their own country, or otherwise?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I rise to offer a few remarks upon the Motion made by my hon. Friend, and upon the precise position of the important question relating to public schools, as left by the Commissioners. My hon. Friend has explained his views in a speech of a very comprehensive character and great length. Will be permit me to say that I heard one portion of it with regret? I think the condemnation passed by my hon. Friend upon the School of Westminster might have been spared. I do not mean to say that my hon. Friend is not discharging his duty as a Member of Parliament in pronouncing, at a proper time, any judgment at which he might arrive after adequate examination of public documents; but what I feel is, that, as a very short time has elapsed since the voluminous records of the labours of the Commission have been submitted to the world, it is almost impossible, if hon. Members can be sufficiently prepared, to try the very serious accusations which he has made against all those connected with the management of Westminster School; and I think that accusations of that grave character bad better be reserved until the assembly to which they are addressed is in a condition to deal
 128 129 130 131 132 "Boys learn but little here below, And learn that little ill." "We hare spoken plainly of the responsibilities of schools; we think it right to speak not less plainly of those of parents. Several of the masters whom we have examined have dwelt in strong terms on the ill-prepared and ignorant state in which boys are very frequently sent to school; we are assured that there is no improvement perceptible in this respect, but the reverse, and the Returns which have been furnished to us regarding
 133 134 135 136 137
 MR. MONSELL  said, that the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland had not spoken with his usual confidence, and did not appear to think he had a very good case. For himself he did not entertain the least doubt, from the speech of the late Sir Robert Peel, that if medical relief had been conducted in Ireland on
 154
 MR. VANSITTART  said, he could confirm the statement of the right hon. Baronet as to the expenses of the old system. His anxious parents sent him to Haileybury College, where he spent the required time and passed the necessary examination, and yet he never received a single rupee from the Indian Government until he arrived in India. He could not, therefore, see what claim those poverty-stricken members of the Universities of Dublin, who were not compelled to enter the service, and who were not half so good as the Haileybury men, had on the Government for payment before their arrival in India.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, it was a mistake to suppose that the number of retired general officers in the Marines was only ten. The number was actually thirty-nine. He trusted the House would not accede to the Motion of the hon. and gallant Member.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, he rose to bring under the consideration of the House the position of the Civil Servants of the Crown in India who shall have entered into covenants to serve in that country. Under the nomination system there were two classes of examinations—one of a literary character, and another as to special qualifications; and those who passed those examinations had an absolute right to appointments in India. Under the former system a successful candidate entered into what was called a deed of covenant with the Secretary of State for India as to the nature of his services. The special matters to be done and left undone were set forth in that deed; but added to the deed was a penalty attached to dereliction of duty. He complained that young men thus becoming entitled to nomination, did not receive pay until they joined the presidency, to appointments to which they were nominated. He thought they should receive special pay from the time they signed the deed, and that an allowance should be made to carry them out to their destination. Such a rule was in force in the army, and ought not to be ignored in the Civil Service.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, he wished to obtain from the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs some further information, his desire for which was prompted by a feeling less Teutonic than that which animated the hon. Baronet the Member for Buckingham (Sir Harry Verney). That hon. Baronet referred to the spontaneity of the movement in Schleswig and Holstein; but the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary in replying ought to take into consideration not only what he heard from British agents, but what was proved from the undoubted circumstances of the case. Immediately contiguous to the Duchies was a German population of 30,000,000 or 40,000,000 all anxious for annexation. He would not do the Danish Government in Schleswig the injustice of comparing it with the English rule in Ireland when the penal code was in force; but since that code had been abolished, and nothing but the remembrance of it remained to excite disaffection, what would have been our position if Ireland had been placed between France and England? Although the power of England bore a much larger proportion to that of France than Denmark bore to Germany, would any one, under the circumstances supposed, have maintained that a movement in Ireland against English rule was spontaneous? The hon. Baronet declined to trust unnamed British agents, but would be believe such persons as Count von Bismark and M. Rechberg? The British Minister, writing on the 5th of December, said that M. von Bismark told him that—
 "Money was also collecting throughout Germany for the Prince of Augustenburg; and, while offices had been opened in Hamburg and in several other States, to raise men for his Highness's service, arms, uniforms, and accoutrements were preparing for their use. Free corps might, therefore, soon enter Holstein and proclaim his Highness as Duke of Schleswig-Holstein. M. de Bismark did not doubt that the King of Denmark might be able to maintain his authority against any opposition which might thus be offered to it; but if his Majesty were obliged to employ force, many of the Schleswig-Holstein sympathizers who would fall in any conflict which might take place between them and his Majesty's troops might be lawless adventurers, but others might be enthusiastic young men, whose death would increase the excitement now prevailing in Germany to a degree which it would be impossible for the Governments to resist." 161 "Count Rechberg assured me also, that as far as he could judge of public opinion from the various reports that had reached the Imperial Government, there appeared to exist great indifference in the Duchy of Schleswig generally, as to the Prince in whose hands the governing power should be placed. In fact, said His Excellency, if it were not for the activity displayed by the agents of some of the small German Powers, little would be heard on the subject of the Duke of Augustenburg; but the instant an agitating agent, following in the rear of the advancing army, contrived to get two or three insignificant people together to join in the cry for the Prince of Augustenburg, it was immediately telegraphed to all parts of Germany that the Prince had been proclaimed. "His Excellency added that these reports were totally untrue as representing an expression of the feelings of the mass of the population, who did not care for, and had certainly not evinced any partiality for, the Duke of Augustenburg." 162
 SIR GEORGE GREY  begged to remind the House that the whole subject of Irish taxation had been referred to a Select
 156
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that last year, in deference to the strong opinions expressed by a large number of persons in the country, and from a desire that the subject might be fully and fairly discussed, he gave his vote for the introduction of the Bill. He had no reason to regret that he did so, for the advocates of the measure had an ample opportunity of stating the grounds on which it could be defended, and the House rejected it, on the second reading, by a numerous majority. Therefore he did not think he could now be accused of any want of respect to the supporters of the Bill if he declined to follow the same course again. The proposal before them was substantially the same as that of last year. As had been remarked, if the Bill were allowed to be brought in and the second reading were fixed for a fortnight hence, the interval would be spent in canvassing and agitation, and in the end, he was confident, the House would reject the measure. It was only a few years since the existing restrictions were adopted, and he could not but think it was inexpedient to attempt to disturb the arrangement then come to. He should, therefore, vote against the Motion.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that not long ago he received a memorial, which had been addressed by the corporation of Southampton to the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury, in reference to the practice which they said extensively existed of sending persons convicted of crime from Jersey and Guernsey to this country. There was, however, only one case mentioned in the memorial—namely, that of David Brooke, who was said to have been banished from Guernsey ten years ago for threatening violence to those who had refused to relieve him, and for assaulting the officer who took him into custody. He transmitted the memorial to Guernsey and Jersey, with a request for information as to the practice which prevailed. He had not yet received an answer from Jersey, but he had from Guernsey, and so far as that island was concerned, it afforded a most complete answer. The Governor referred the matter to the bailiff, and he found that the register of criminal proceedings in the island did not contain the name of David Brooke, except as far back as the 26th of December, 1839, when a person of that name, who no doubt was the same individual, was brought before the court. It also appeared that in 1840 the corporation of Southampton sent a memorial nearly similar to the present one to Lord Normanby, the then Secretary of State, and that the ten years spoken of in the last memorial preceded 1840, and went back to the reign of William IV. He was also informed that no native of Guernsey had been transported from the island since 1840. He, therefore, thought that the hon. and learned Member had been wholly misinformed. If, however, he desired further information on the subject, the most satisfactory way of obtaining it would be to move for the production of the memorial and the correspondence which had taken place.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I understand it to be as it was expressed by my hon. and gallant Friend—and I think he will agree with me that I interpreted him rightly— whether the  Aurora
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that as it was doubtful whether the noble Lord at the head of the Government would be in his place on Monday next, he should post-
 105
 SIR GEORGE GREY : The question asked of me by my hon. and gallant Friend below the gangway (Colonel French) was whether the  Aurora
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I wish to repeat what I stated to the House on a former occasion—that Her Majesty's Government have received from the Government of Austria a distinct and positive assurance
 104
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in reply, said, his attention had not been called to the proposed Act of Congress referred to until the previous evening, when the hon. Gentleman showed him an extract from a newspaper stating that such an Act had been proposed. There was undoubtedly a large emigration going on from Ireland, and mainly directed towards the United States; but the reason was obviously to be found in the fact that wages in America were very high, artificially high, in consequence of the war, while in Ireland they were comparatively low. Her Majesty's Government did not think it would be expedient, even were it practicable, to endeavour to resist such emigration by the providing industrial employment at the public expense. He must also say that he thought Irishmen had a fair share of the benefits accruing from reductions of taxation, and he was not aware that any alteration of the laws relating to land would tend to diminish emigration. Religious distinctions had, happily, been abolished; and he would remind his hon. friend that the people of the sister country lived under the same Constitution as the people of England.
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in reply, said, the Return represented the number of persons acquitted of murder and not found guilty of manslaughter.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : The hon. Gentleman has truly stated what we all know, that a Conference is now sitting, and we hope and trust that the first result of it will be to establish an armistice. Under these circumstances, and without anticipating events, the only answer I can give the hon. Gentleman on the part of the Government is this—that Her Majesty's Government will continue, in combination with the other Powers, to take those means which appear most likely to effect the object they have in view—namely, the termination of the war, and the satisfactory settlement of the questions between Denmark and Germany.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he rose to put Questions connected with the Duchies of Schleswig and Holstein to the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. The subject was one in which a deep interest necessarily was felt by the people of this country, and a strong desire was expressed to obtain explanations leading to a right understanding of the merits of the conflict, and the course which England ought to pursue. It had been alleged that the States of Holstein formally thanked the King of Denmark when the change was made in the order of succession to that Duchy. The fact was that the States of Holstein never did express any opinion of the kind, for the question had never been submitted to them. Holstein was a constitutional country, and the change ought never to have been made without obtaining the assent of the representatives of the Staaten. The  Staatscalender "With regard to those affairs which fall under the official direction of our Ministry in the Duchy of Schleswig, no changes in legislation, with the exception of laws merely provisional, shall be made, without the assent previously obtained of the Provincial Estates of the Duchy, and in the arrangements respecting them the vote of the Provincial Assembly shall be expressly stated. With regard to the affairs of Holstein, which fall under the official direction of our Ministry in the Duchies of Holstein and Lauenburg, no changes in the legislation shall take place unless sanctioned by a previous vote of the Provincial Estates of the Duchy. And in the arrangements respecting them the vote of the Provincial Assembly shall be expressly stated." 157 158 Cries of "It was not till numerous democratic agents of the German National Verein swarmed into the Holstein villages that the rural population showed any indisposition to the Government of the King of Denmark. Even now the inhabitants of the villages show little inclination voluntarily to swell the democratic flood of German invasion." 159 non sequitur "Whether he has reason to believe that the States of Holstein formally thanked the King of Denmark for what he had done in altering the succession; and, if so, on what authority he entertains that belief? Whether the intimation, in Despatches 709 and 784, that the movement in the Duchies of Schleswig and Holstein in favour of separation from Denmark was not spontaneous, rests on the authority of any agents of the British Government; and if he will lay upon the table any Documents or Despatches on these subjects? 160 And, to move an Address for Copy of the Answers received from the Governments to whom invitations were addressed to attend the Conference now sitting in London?"
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he wished to explain that he had not expressed any approval of the conduct of Austria and Prussia, who had betrayed the Schleswig-Holsteiners in 1851–2, but had spoken of the German inhabitants of the Duchies.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE : I would ask the noble Lord to what place is the  Aurora
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he would withdraw his Motion.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, that at a moment when it was understood that a large increase of pay was about to be granted to some officers in the Royal Navy, the House would probably not be indisposed to do an act of justice to the officers of the Royal Marines. He would not suggest the vote of a large sum of money to that distinguished corps, but would only ask the payment of a sum of money to which he considered the officers of that corps to be entitled. In 1854 a Royal Commission recommended that £60,000 a year should be applied to encourage retirement in the Line, and £48,000 in the Engineers and Artillery. In the same year the Admiralty obtained an Order in Council for the application of £35,000 to a similar purpose in connection with the Royal Marines, who were not included in that arrangement, they being not under the War Office, but under the Admiralty. That force then consisted of 12,000 men, but was subsequently raised to 15,000 and 18,000—the latter being its present strength. A corresponding increase had, of course, taken place in the number of officers. A difficulty had arisen as to the means of apportioning the £35,000, and to the present day the full amount had never been expended in any year. In fact, the £29,000 previously applied to the same object had not been exceeded. Thus there had been a saving of £5,000 or £6,000 each year, which should have been devoted to promoting retirement in the Marines. The Marine officers thought that, as their corps had been increased, the amount of money devoted to the encouragement of promotion should be increased in a like proportion. The number of retired general officers was only ten, and that bore no proportion to the number of retired officers of the same grade in other regiments. It had been suggested that the Admiralty should slightly increase
 148
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : The question just put by my hon. Friend assumes that the Austrian ships have left the Downs. I wish to know whether the noble Lord is in a position to inform us whether they have left, and, if so, what was the destination of the squadron which sailed?
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  remarked, that the hon. Baronet, in referring to emigration and other kindred subjects, had travelled beyond the limits of his notice. There was nothing exceptional, as regarded Ireland, in charging the poor rate with
 146
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that in the year 1860 the hon. Member for Londonderry (Mr. Dawson) brought that subject under the notice of the House, on which occasion his right hon. Friend the Secretary for the Colonies (Mr. Cardwell) gave what appeared to him to be a satisfactory answer to the demand then made. The late Sir Robert Peel, in consequence of the financial changes introduced in the Budget of 1846, relieved the local rates of Ireland from the payment of £350,000 on account of the constabulary, the whole cost of which he placed on the Consolidated Fund; but he made no corresponding alleviation in England and Scotland. In Ireland there were now 717 dispensary districts and 764 medical officers, and the whole cost of keeping up this machinery was £75,000. The hon. Member for Meath (Mr. MacEvoy) asked that Ireland should be relieved of half that sum; but the relief afforded to Ireland by the payment of the constabulary was ten times greater than the relief now sought. No doubt when the late Sir Robert Peel removed the burdens of taxation, which were then be much complained of, he considered that he was doing what he thought sufficient. No positive promise was made in 1846 that one-half of the cost of the medical unions should be borne by the Consolidated Fund. The matter was one which lay with the Treasury rather than the Irish Government, and if the Chancellor of the Exchequer chose to relieve the local taxation of Ireland to the extent of £37,000 a year by paying half the cost of the dispensary officers, he, for one, should rejoice. He had no authority in the matter, and the Treasury might have good reasons for maintaining the present state of things. After that assurance on his part—which, however, he would admit did not amount to much, except that he sympathized with the hon. Gentleman— he trusted that he would withdraw the Motion.
 MR. PEEL  said, that the charge for medical relief in England and Scotland
 155
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that he felt, although that debate was probably drawing to its conclusion, that he should be wanting in his duty if he did not say a few words on the part of the Commissioners, especially after the very handsome acknowledgment which their services had received from his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer and others. It was a very great gratification to his Colleagues and himself to find their labours treated with such kindness. When they undertook their task, they knew it was one of considerable labour and difficulty, and also one that would necessarily be somewhat of an invidious character. The Commissioners felt that many of them being connected with the schools which were to be the subject of their inquiry, and being bound up by personal ties of friendship with many of those who were charged with the conduct of those schools, it was a painful and invidious task to put those persons through the sort of ordeal and examination which had to be undergone. But they had endeavoured, he might safely say, to conduct their investigations throughout in a fair, a candid, and at the same time a friendly spirit. The Commissioners had thought that, on the whole, the interests of the schools with which they were themselves connected demanded that they should not attempt to hush up any matter, but that they should probe it to the bottom; that they should not out of a mistaken friendliness pass over things that called for inquiry; and although they had not evinced anything like a hostile spirit in the prosecution of their labours, yet a perusal of the evidence they had taken would, he thought, show that the investigation had been a searching one. He was bound to say, on behalf of those persons from whom they had obtained evidence, that the thanks of the Commissioners were due to them for the fair, candid, and noble spirit in which they had responded to their inquiries. The Commissioners had no power of compelling them to give evidence; yet everywhere
 139 140 lycées gymnasia 141 142 143
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, that although he had the greatest respect for the hon. Members the Mover and Seconder of that Motion, and lamented equally with them the inclination to drink existing in this country, yet he hoped that the House would not sanction the commencement of an agitation such as had taken place before, in consequence of the course they were about to adopt. Eight years ago there was a sort of  émeute 174
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, in reply, that as he was about to reply to the Question of Ma hon. Friend by a suggestion, which
 190
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, When he will lay upon the table of the House the proposed plan for redressing the grievances of the Officers of the late Indian Army?
 MR. H. A. BRUCE : Of course both those conditions will be complied with. The suggestion that I have made is quite as much for the convenience of the House as it is for that of the Government.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, he regretted the interruption of the noble Lord, for he (Mr. Bruce) could not but think that the House itself would have been much better satisfied if it had heard the short statement he had to make. However, he should refrain from making those observations now; and, in reply to his hon. Friend (Mr. Mitford), he would simply state that the hon. Member for Berkshire (Mr. Walter) had moved for a Return relating to the amount of endowments held by Endowed Schools assisted by the State, which would be laid on the table of the House in the course of the week. He would suggest, therefore, to his right hon. Friend (Mr. Adderley), that inasmuch as these Minutes would not come into operation till the 30th of June, and as the House would not be in a position to judge of the effect of the Minute of March 11th of this year, without having before them the Return that had been moved for, the discussion on his Motion should be postponed until that Return was before the House, the Government undertaking to give the right hon. Gentleman a day before the 30th of June for bringing forward his Motion.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE : They are certainly not to be withdrawn. As I have stated, they will not come into operation till the 30th of June, and before that time arrives the right hon. Gentleman the Member for North Staffordshire will have an opportunity of bringing forward his Motion.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  was understood to say that his answer was intended to apply to the earlier and longer of the two Ordinances.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE , in reply, said, he had no doubt the subject mentioned by his hon. Friend would be fully considered by the Committee.
 SIR JOHN TREVELYAN  said, that Sir William Snow Harris was competent to give an opinion on this subject, and that his letter ought to be laid before the House.
 ADMIRAL DUNCOMBE  said, he would advise his hon. Friend to withdraw his Motion for the papers altogether, as the production of one portion of them was objected to by one side of the House, and the production of the remaining portion of them by the other side. As the Motion seemed to be considered premature at present, his hon. Friend could repeat it at a future time.
 COLONEL NORTH , who was almost in audible, moved an Amendment with reference to the rates and taxes recently charged upon the officers resident in Chelsea Hospital in respect of houses therein officially occupied by them. The hon. and gallant Member was understood; to urge that the long and gallant services of these gentlemen entitled them to every consideration.
 MR. PEEL  said, that the question brought forward by the hon. and gallant Gentleman was under consideration at the Treasury, in connection with the general question of the exemption of Government property from local taxation. He understood that no conclusion had been come to, but that the subject was still under the consideration of the Admiralty and War Office. The particular case of Chelsea Hospital had not been brought before the attention of the Treasury since 1858 The question whether official residences
 199
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, that the residence of these officers in the Hospital was compulsory, and was necessary to the duty which was imposed upon them, and that they therefore ought not to be mulcted on that account. The argument, he observed, applied not only to Chelsea Hospital, but to every barrack in England. For his own part he did not think it right that, because the parish of Chelsea chose to levy high rates they ought to be thrown on those unfortunate officers, contrary to all right and justice. It was quite evident that the right hon. Gentleman knew nothing about the matter.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that the question was one which affected not only Chelsea Hospital but all the barracks in the Kingdom, and he hoped that his hon. Friend would press his Motion to a division. In Ireland a movement had been made to impose the rates upon barracks, and he understood that even the lodging money given to officers had been charged with income tax.
 LORD NAAS  said, it appeared by the Returns that no general rule existed with regard to these assessments; he therefore desired to know whether, before the House came to those Votes in the Civil Service Estimates which provided for the payment of rates, the Government would state the conclusion at which they had arrived upon this rather important question?
 MR. COWPER  said, that by law parishes had a right to rate all property which was beneficially occupied, and the
 201
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he could not agree with the hon. Baronet in what seemed to be his assumption — namely,
 205
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, he was aware that the proposal which the hon. Baronet had just made was a popular one; but he doubted whether it would meet with much favour from the soldiers themselves, who would feel that they had not enlisted for the purpose of performing such duties, He could not imagine what the Vote of £8,000 for removing the sewage from the Camp was for. He supposed that the farmers wanted the sewage, and, if so, let them take it away themselves. As to Aldershot, he deprecated the extraordinary outlay which had taken place there, and quite agreed that the soldiers ought to be removed. A regiment which had spent years in a foreign country was placed in one of these camps, where there was no amusement and where the men were exposed to horrible temptations. This was a great grievance, and the expenditure on these camps ought to be confined to the narrowest limits.
 GENERAL PEEL  said, it would probably be found that the blame did not attach entirely to the Engineer Officers. Estimates of this kind were generally cut down at the War Office, the great object being to reduce them within a certain amount. He always impressed everybody at the War Office that the worst thing they could do was to attempt to deceive the House of Commons; but the root of the evil lay in the paring down of Estimates by the House of Commons, which necessitated subsequent augmentations. In regard to the circumstance that the sum named in the original Estimate for the purchase of land at Gravesend was £64,000, and the sum already voted was £73,000, he might explain that the money spent in the course of the financial year went back to the Exchequer. The gross sum actually expended was £54,000, and this was, no doubt, the cause of the discrepancy. He thought it would be better if there were a column to show in such cases the amount of the original estimate. He had always held that it was useless to compare the Estimates of one year with those of another unless they knew the actual expenditure.
 COLONEL NORTH  quite agreed with the hon. Member who had just spoken. He regretted that in a Vote of more than £300,000 so small a sum as £5,000 only was set aside for "reading and recreation rooms." Most of the soldier's idle time was in the evening, and if his barrack rooms were made more comfortable and lit with gas he would not be so anxious to leave them. At present the Government gave two wretched candles to light a large room; and who would not prefer a gin palace to such a place? A young officer of artillery deserved great credit for having established a reading room for the troops at Gibraltar, at first at his own expense. The plan had been found most successful, and had been approved both by the late Lord Herbert and Sir George Lewis. He wished the Vote for reading and recreation were four or five times as large.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that the readiness with which the House voted everything the soldier did not want was remarkable. With regard to sales of land by the War Department, he had known some extraordinary proceedings to take place. When he was at the Ordnance, land could not be sold without the leave of the Treasury; but he had known that land had been sold very cheaply which the Government had to buy back a few years afterwards at three or four times its former price. It was time the House should be informed what was to be
 208 209
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that since Thursday night he had made inquiries as to the state of the buildings in the North Camp at Aldershot, and was unable to find that any report had been received at all bearing out the description given the other night by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Petersfield (Sir Wm. Jolliffe) of their ruinous condition If the right hon. Gentleman would look at Part 3 of the present Vote, he would see that no Jess than £22,440 were taken for repairs of the camp at Aldershot. The huts were not by any means comfortable quarters — that did not admit of doubt—but their discomfort, he thought, was attributable to the situation and other causes, which no amount of money spent upon them would be able to remedy, rather than to their condition. He was not aware of any intention to alter existing arrangements there. The Government did not propose to take any sum of money for new buildings, except for stabling of a more permanent character; and the Vote for this purpose did not appear for the first time in the present Estimates, money having been taken in 1861–2 and 1862–3. Last year the works
 210 211 212 213
 COLONEL NORTH  hoped that something would really be done in regard to the state of the Portsmouth barracks which had been alluded to.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he did not think the explanation with regard to expenditure for the defences of Ireland was at all satisfactory. Large sums were voted for the defence of the Humber and other places in England, where there were no docks or arsenals, while the defence of the coast of Ireland was neglected. These commercial ports should contribute something towards the cost of their own defence. Bantry Bay was a most dangerous part of the Irish coast, and all the defence of Ireland ought not to be confined to Cork. Unless justice were done to Ireland in this matter he would formally bring the question before the House.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he had listened with the utmost surprise to the statements which had been made by the hon. Member for Dungarvan (Mr. Maguire). He took it for granted that the school was equally open to Roman. Catholics and to Protestants; and that being the case he could not understand how, in a country, the majority of the inhabitants of which were Roman Catholics, only one-third of the scholars should be Roman Catholics, and all the orderlies of one religion—the Protestant. During the time he served in the army, he had, for the most part, been connected with regiments which were composed chiefly of Roman Catholics, one of the last being the Royal Irish Fusiliers, in which, out of 1,000 men, there were not more than seventy or eighty Protestants; and he defied any man to point out an instance in which the Roman Catholic soldier in those regiments had not done his duty most nobly, led by Protestant officers, in the service of a Protestant Queen. It was, therefore, much to be regretted that in an institution like the Royal Hibernian School, any marked difference should be made between the members of the two persuasions.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that he had to thank the hon. Member for Dungarvan for the very temperate manner in which he had introduced the subject to the notice of the House, which was undoubtedly a very important one. The hon. Gentleman had very fairly stated that the Secretary of State had no power to interfere directly with the management of the institution in question. He was prepared, at the same time, to admit, that as a sum of £12,000 appeared in the Army Estimates for its support, it was but right that the representative of the War Department should be called upon to account for the expenditure of that money. Sir George Lewis, he might add, having inquired into the subject, had come to the conclusion indicated by the letter to which the hon. Member referred, and the charter of the institution set forth, in the most distinct terms, that the control of the school should be vested in certain Governors, who should have power to appoint the officers and
 224 225 226
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that the Hibernian Military School was not exclusively for the children of Irish soldiers, but was intended for the children of all soldiers in Ireland, and the proportion of Irish Catholic soldiers in Ireland, as compared with Protestant soldiers there, could not be so large as the hon. Member had just mentioned.
 COLONEL NORTH  asked for some explanation of the fact that for twenty Queen's Cadets nominated by the Secretary of State for India, an item of £1,500 was set down, and at the bottom of page 58, it was stated in a note that the Indian Government contributed £3,000 per annum for the Education and Maintenance of twenty Queen's Cadets, nominated by the Secretary of State for India. In the Hospital Vote a sum was set down for pay and lodging allowance for forty-five probationers, to fill up vacancies in the medical department. He wanted to know whether there was any security that those probationers would enter the army medical department?
 COLONEL DUNNE  inquired whether any alteration would be made in the course set down for the competitive examination for the army? A more absurd system never existed. The French taught everything that the young officers ought to know, we taught them everything but what they ought to know. On the other hand we went to the most ridiculous extreme, and inquired into their acquirements in everything that could not be of the least possible use. The Professors themselves sought for questions merely to puzzle young men, and there was not a single one of those Professors, not with standing all their quibbling questions, who would be fit to enter the army.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, the expense of the military colleges was, no doubt, high, but the explanation suggested by the hon. Baronet (Sir Harry Verney) was, no doubt, the correct one— that the expense of educational establishments of all kinds in this country was much higher than on the Continent. An immense number of Professors were certainly employed in our military colleges, and it would be for the Secretary of State for War to say whether any reduction could be made. As to the question asked by the gallant Colonel opposite (Colonel North) with respect to the twenty Cadets nominated by the Secretary for India, he was not at
 232
 COLONEL NORTH  said, it had been stated that no one could be got to enter the medical department of the army, and, therefore, some security should be had that these persons who came to the army schools for medical education, should join the army medical service. He wished to know why a swimming master had not been appointed, as had been recommended by the Committee.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, it was calculated that £90,000 a year would be required for twenty years for the Ordnance Survey. The Geological Survey was not connected with the Ordnance Survey, and he was unable to answer in respect to it.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that the extension of the survey was conducted mainly upon the principle advocated by the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir William Jolliffe); the chief towns of the kingdom had been completed to a great extent; and the maps sold to the amount of £12,000 a year, which very much more than compensated for the cost of publication. The suggestion of his hon. Friend the Member for Glamorganshire (Mr. Hussey Vivian) was, no doubt, worthy of consideration. Those parts of the country where fortifications already existed, or were about to be erected, required the earliest attention, and the utmost accuracy; but he promised his hon. Friend that attention would be paid to his suggestions in reference to the mining districts, if it could be done without adding very much to the cost. As to the obser-
 236
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, the forage allowance to the Commander-in-Chief was not a new charge; it was only that which the regulations sanctioned for a Field Marshal, and he did not think that the Committee should grudge this charge. As to the civil branches of the army, the Secretary for War was inquiring into this subject, with a view, if possible, to make reductions. He did not think it was quite fair to compare this with the corresponding French Vote, for a great part of the services which were performed in the War Department and in the Commander-in-Chief's department in this country were performed in France, as he understood, by the  Intendance Etat Major
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that, according to an estimate made in the War Office, the expenses of that office, of the Commander-in-Chief's office, and the Staff did not compare nearly so unfavourably as the hon. Member had stated with the expenses of the French War Office, the  Intendance Etat Major
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, the functions of the Topographical Department were to collect and preserve authentic maps of every part of the world respecting which it was for the interests of the service that we should have information. It was impossible that the plan of Fredericia, to which the hon. Member had alluded, could have been of any assistance to the Germans. In the first place, the original map had been obtained from the British Museum, where it was open for anybody's inspection; and, in the next place, it was by no means an accurate plan, having been published- before 1848, since which time he believed that new fortifications had been erected. The map in question was published simply for the purpose of rendering more intelligible the despatches of our Ministers which might be received during the progress of the war. It was impossible that its publication could give any information to either army which they were not in possession of before. At the same time, he quite agreed that great care should be taken as to the publication of maps under such circumstances.
 COLONEL DUNNE  asked for some explanation respecting the mode of pensioning; and called attention to the case of the barrack-masters, many of whom were of an age that almost unfitted them for the performance of their duty. He had also to call attention to the case of distinguished cavalry officers placed on half-pay without the Commander-in-Chief being able to give them active employment. It was most objectionable to place officers after long service in India on half-pay on their return. He was sure the House would readily vote the money to keep those officers in active service.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that the practice referred to had always existed; and, as far as he knew, there was no intention on the part of the Government to alter it.
 MR. T. BARING  said, that if the Law Officers of the Crown were content to allow the clause to be passed in its present shape he would offer no further opposition to it.
 MR. T. BARING  remarked that in France and the United States the money must be actually paid to the firm. Supposing the person contracting to lend money should fail, what claim would the limited partnership have on the estate.
 MR. T. BARING  urged the expediency of having a Bill dealing with the law of partnership, if introduced at all, brought in on the authority of the Government, and under the auspices of the Law Officers of the Crown.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that by the vote which he gave he did not intend to take a step which would be prejudicial to the Bill, and he had heard with great regret his hon. Friend's announcement that he should abandon the measure. He was entirely favourable to the principle of the Bill, and had only voted to-night as he had voted last year. He thought that if a new class of partnerships were introduced and required to be registered, they ought to go into the world avowedly such as they were.
 MR. COWPER  thought that it would be both inconvenient and disrespectful to the Patent Law Commission that this Committee should be appointed before their Report, which might shortly be expected, was received. He, therefore, could not assent to the Motion.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that although the appointment of this Committee might not interfere with the proceedings of the Patent Law Commission, yet when that Commission reported there would be a great many subjects connected with patents which must necessarily be considered, and it would be convenient to consider them all together. It would, therefore, be better to postpone the appointment of this Committee.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he wished to urge upon the noble Lord most strongly that the system of giving employment to the soldiers should be adopted throughout
 207
 MR. C. P. F. BERKELEY  thought the first step towards any sound economy was that these accounts should be rendered in an accurate and distinct form to the House; but after the assurance given for the future on that point by the noble Lord, he would withdraw his Motion.
 MR. C. P. F. BERKELEY  said, that in justice to those hon. Members who had not been present on a former occasion, he would again call attention to some discrepancies which were unaccounted for; though he thought that it was but fair to the noble Lord the Under Secretary for War to state that those errors had not arisen alone during the period in which he had been in office, but that the system had been going on for some time. The reason why these discrepancies had not previously been pointed out by any hon. Member was because of the extreme difficulty of perceiving any alteration upon the face of the Estimates. The first Estimate for the drainage of Cove Common at Aldershot of £4,300 was originally £2,000. In 1862 the sum had grown to £2,150; in 1863 to £3,150, without any explanation of the cause of the increase being given, nor did they know where it was likely to stop. The estimate of £5,200 for improving the water supply at the same camp had increased by £1,800, the estimate last year for the same work being £3,400. The proposed cost of the cavalry barracks at Colchester had made a stride of £30,000 in one year, the estimate last year being £80,000, and this year £110,000. The re-form of the eastern defences at the Tower had increased £1,500 during the year, and the hydraulic engine house by £700. The new barracks at Chelsea, for which £187,000 were voted, had actually risen £47,000, the original estimate being £140,000. The erection of a new hospital at Netley, which last year was to cost £315,541, had increased to £328,079. He found that in 1862 there was also a very great increase upon that work, but a note was placed in the margin calling attention to the fact, and stating the reason; and he thought that that plan should always be adopted. When the estimate for the work of levelling and planting the grounds of that hospital was first framed they were to cost £1,200. In 1861 the estimate had increased to £2,000, in 1862 it was also £2,000, in 1863 it reached £2,100, and now it actually amounted to £4,000. In the cost of the quarters and stabling required for a detachment of Military Train the original estimate of £1,500 had not been increased; but they had already voted that amount, and a demand for another £1,500 was now made upon the House. In the case of the new powder magazine at Newcastle-on-Tyne they had already voted the estimated expense
 204
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he must protest against the assertion that he had at any time said anything derogatory of Sir Snow Harris, or that there was anything offensive to Sir Snow Harris in declining to accede to the request that the pamphlet written by that gentleman should be laid upon the table. He said that he had the highest opinion of Sir Snow Harris as a man of science, to whom the navy owed a great debt of gratitude for his system of lightning conductors, which was now in general use. But he repeated that Sir Snow Harris was no authority on the education of naval architects, and, therefore, had no claim whatever to have his opinions published at the public expense, any more than other persons had who chose to write upon a subject of public interest. At the same time, if the House should be of opinion that the circulation of these opinions were of public interest, he would, of course, produce them. On the other hand, the Institute of Naval Architects was a very important establishment, the object of which was to improve the system of naval architecture and the education of naval architects, and it would, therefore, be for the interests of this House, that their opinions should be laid upon the table. He had never said that the rooms at South Kensington were ready for the School. On the contrary, he had asked the House for a Vote of money in order to appropriate certain rooms for the purpose, and he believed that the sum voted would entirely cover the expenditure for the fitting up of those rooms. He had before expressed his opinion that it was much to be regretted that the former School of Naval Architecture had ever been given up. The present dockyard schools were not of a sufficiently high class, and could not bring out and educate naval architects in the higher scientific branches required by them at the present day; nor did there exist in the dockyards the means of giving the lectures which were required. At South Kensington, however, there were capable lecturers. [Mr. AUGUSTUS SMITH: Who?] It was not necessary to name individuals, but there were eminent lecturers, who would be able to render great public service. The Government, therefore, decided that, upon the whole, South Kensington was the best place at which to establish the School. Upon the grounds he had stated, he should feel bound to oppose the Motion.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he rose to suggest that, if the right hon. Gentleman was going to make any statement, there should be an understanding that there would be a right to reply, in case anything should fall from him which would necessitate a reply.
 MR. O'REILLY  said, that the speeches of the noble Lord the Under Secretary for "War, and of the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies, were only such as might have been expected from them, and rendered it almost unnecessary for him to make any additional observations on the subject before the House. The difficulty in respect to the Royal Hibernian Military School appeared to arise from the fact that its government was vested in certain Governors, and not in the responsible Government of the country. Nevertheless, that House found the necessary funds to the amount of £12,900. He would sug-
 229 s 230 s s s
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he had made the requisite allowance for this in his calculation.
 MR. O'REILLY  said, that the cost of the administration of the army had been frequently referred to as being the department of our public expenditure where a good deal of judicious paring could be exercised with advantage. The noble Lord who represented the Army Department had, on a previous occasion, when the subject was under discussion, made some little confusion between the general Staff and the administration of the army. The hon. and gallant Member for Queen's County (Colonel Dunne) had also expressed a hope that he would not press for any diminution of the general Staff of the army, But, in fact, that department was entirely different from the administration. In administration the French were certainly not inferior to ourselves. Our head department consisted of a Secretary of State and a Commander-in-Chief, the expense being £9,442, while the French managed with one Minister, to whom they, however, paid more, his salary being £5,200. The French officials— directeurs, chefs, et commis s Dépôt de la Guerre s d 238
 MR. AYRTON  said, that if this Committee were as well inclined to economy as a former Committee had been, he should ask them to put an end to the publication of the series of maps upon a 25-inch scale for the whole country. Those maps had been invested with a degree of mystery by being styled cadastral surveys—which they really were not, because a cadastral survey would give an account of all the landed property of the country, the acreage and tenure of the land. If this minute style of mapping was to be truly and honestly carried out it could not be done for £1,400,000, but would cost nearer double that amount; and, after all, would be badly done, and would be of little value to anybody but the proprietors of landed estates. At present the Survey Department confined itself to maps upon the 1-inch scale, which were found to be very inaccurate. If that was the case with a 1-inch scale what would it be with maps upon a 25-inch scale. He believed that, for all practical purposes, the House was sanctioning a great and useless expense, because if gentlemen wanted their estates surveyed they should do it in their own way, and pay for the labour themselves.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that as the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn had stated that this Committee would not interfere with the proceedings of the Commission, the fact that that Commission had not yet reported was no reason for delaying its appointment.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he would adopt the advice of his hon. and gallant Friend, and ask leave to withdraw his Motion.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he thought that on a former occasion the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty had spoken in very unhandsome terms of Sir William Snow Harris, stating that though he might be an authority upon lightning conductors, he was no authority upon a School of Naval Architecture, and that it was unfair to ask that his opinion on such a subject should be circulated at the expense of the country. In his (Mr. A. Smith's) opinion, Sir Snow Harris was a high authority on such a subject, and as the noble Lord was ready to produce a Report from the Institute of Naval Architects, of which the right hon. Baronet (Sir John Pakington) was President, he thought the cost of laying before Parliament this and other papers, would be money well laid out. One reason given by the noble Lord for placing this School at South Kensington was that there were rooms and lecturers to be had there; but he (Mr. A. Smith) was informed that there were neither suitable rooms nor competent lecturers at South Kensington. The scheme propounded by the noble Lord ought not to be adopted until it was thoroughly examined, so that the House might see whether it was likely to prove successful, and what the cost was likely to be. Unless they had the whole plan before them, he was convinced that hereafter they would be called upon for some enormous expenditure. There existed schools in the dockyards already; it was only necessary that the education given there should be carried a little further than at present. He understood that there would be no objection to produce the Report from the Institute of Naval Architects, and therefore he would only move for
 "Copy of a Communication made to the Admiralty by Sir W. Snow Harris on the organization of the proposed School of Naval Architecture."
 MR. DISRAELI : I understand that the conditions of the armistice have been communicated to another assembly. It seems to me that matters are not well managed or with due consideration to the House of Commons, if any other place is better informed than we are upon a matter of so much interest and importance as an armistice, and that we should be informed by the Government that they had no communication to make to us. I trust that in future we shall be as soon informed as another place upon matters of this importance. Perhaps by this time Her Majesty's Government may have it in their power
 198
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he wished to observe that his Motion in relation to Endowed Schools could not possibly be affected by any statistical Return, as it was on principle that it disputed the application of private endowments in reduction of public grants. But if the Govern-
 191
 MR. BUXTON  said, the point raised by the hon. Baronet (Sir Harry Verney) was one of considerable importance, for it seemed absurd that they should have on the one hand bitter complaints because our soldiers had nothing to do, and on the other work suited to them done by contractors. As to the alleged unpopularity of this work, he believed that the men would be glad enough, in consideration of a little extra money, to be employed on works required in connection with the army. With regard to the Estimates, it seemed as if the Engineer Officers had fallen into the habit of making Estimates of about half or two-thirds the real sum; committing Parliament to their adoption, and then coming up to the House for supplementary Votes. Lord Hardinge had told him that, on taking office, he found an order of the Duke of Wellington to the effect that whenever a new building was erected there should be placed upon it a brass plate, stating the original estimate, the actual cost, the time in which it was completed, and the name of the officer who had designed it.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, in reply, that much greater delay had occurred in this matter than he had expected. A great many minute details had to be considered; but he would take care that the interests of the Officers should not suffer. Last week His Royal Highness the Field Marshal Commanding-in-Chief, the Secretary of War, and himself had a meeting, at which they finally arranged what was to be done. The necessary Warrant would have to be submitted to the Queen, and that would take some time, at least a few days, and as soon as the Warrant was signed it should be laid upon the table. Not one moment should be lost more than was absolutely necessary.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would beg to ask, Whether the right hon. Baronet has any objection to communicate to the House the terms of the Armistice?
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  supported the principle of giving the most complete publicity to the circumstances of these partnerships.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, it was no answer to his noble Friend to say that this was a sectarian and polemical attack. The real question was, whether the present state of things was just and desirable. No attack was made on the general character of the institution, of which he could, from personal knowledge, speak, in many respects, in the highest terms, nor on the distinguished General who had the command of the forces in Ireland, whom they all respected. Objection was taken only to the exclusive nature of the principal appointments in the institution. Was it wise or just that an institution intended for the orphans of soldiers who had served their Queen, should be under an exclusive management? The hon. and gallant Member for Oxfordshire (Colonel North), who had been in Ireland and knew the Irish soldiers, had told them what must be the feeling caused by so one-sided an arrangement. And by whom was this institution maintained? Principally by the Vote of this House, and was not a mere charity, but a mark of gratitude for services rendered to the country. Its primary object was not eleemosynary—its primary object was for the public education of orphans of soldiers, and, being for the education of all, it ought to be conducted in a manner in which it could be accepted by all. The hon. Member for Dublin, however, defended the institution on the very ground that it was exclusive. He (Mr. Cardwell) could not admit that argument, and ventured to adhere to the opinion which had been quoted, that not only good feeling towards those for whom the institution
 228
 MR. CRAUFURD  trusted the hon. Member for Birmingham would re-consider his determination to abandon the Bill. Even with the Amendments which had been introduced into it, there still remained in it, he thought, no small amount of good.
 MR. GOSCHEN , as a Mend of the Bill, would be glad to see a provision introduced to compel the announcement in the  Gazette
 MR. HUNT  said, he wished to inquire, Whether the attention of the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary has been directed to a statement in the papers describing the committal of a whole family for three weeks, with hard labour, for the offence of sleeping under a tent? The statement was to the effect that a family of gipsies—a mother with six children, the youngest being only eight years old—had been committed to gaol by the Rev. Uriah Tonkin, on the 25th or 26th of last month, at a place called Hale, in Cornwall. He also wished to ask, whether the right hon. Gentleman will not make inquiry into the circumstances, with a view to advise Her Majesty to remit the sentence, and whether he has any objection to lay on the table the depositions and conviction?
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, the question was one in which the Government, and the Government alone, were concerned. It was impossible that a parish would tax any Institution like that of Chelsea Hospital without the consent of the Government. If the Government gave up their rights, and said they would not defend such Institutions, it was quite obvious that the parishes might do as they pleased. A similar question had arisen in the case of Hampton Court Palace. The Government refused to oppose the demand, and the persons residing there had to pay their own taxes, whereas, in the case of St. James's Palace they had interfered and expressed a determination that it should not be made liable to rates. The charge, therefore, against the Government was that they had not performed their duty in defending Chelsea Hospital, and he trusted that his hon. and gallant Friend would go to a division on the subject.
 MR. HUSSEY VIVIAN  suggested that the attention of the Director of the Cadastral Survey should be directed in the first instance to the mineral districts of the country.
 MR. WYLD  said, that the Government survey was being executed in the most expensive and costly manner. He believed that under proper management a great deal more work might have been executed for the £100,000 which had been for several years voted for the purpose, Scotland had great cause of complaint, because, although she contributed her share towards the Vote for the Ordnance Survey, she had suffered great neglect at the hands of the Director General of the Survey. Next Session he proposed, when this Vote was again before the House, to enter upon an analysis of the work, and to show how for the same expenditure a greater result might have been obtained.
 MR. WYLD  called attention to the fact that the Topographical Department had recently published a plan of the fortifications of Fredericia, which gave the Germans information which they did not before possess. During the Italian war a somewhat similar incident took place. The Austrian Government had published some time previously a large map of the Austrian empire. When the war broke out they refused to supply it, and prohibited its sale. But our Topographical Department reproduced this map, and the French Government, who could not obtain it elsewhere, actually supplied themselves with copies thus taken.
 MR. BRADY  held that an institution which was supported out of the taxation, of the whole kingdom, and was intended for the benefit of the army, without distinction as to religion, should not be allowed to assume an exclusive character. It was most unjust that only one-third of the scholars should be Catholic, while the number of Catholic soldiers was six to one. He, for one, would not allow of supremacy any longer, nor confess himself a less man than another because he professed the religion in which he was born. They were all equal, and he would assert the claim of the Catholic children to all the rights to which they were entitled in this institution. He believed that the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Colonies would have a most beneficial effect in Ireland.
 MR. BRADY  stated that he spoke of the children of Irish parents who enlisted in Ireland, and of these there were four or five Catholics to one Protestant.
 MR. BRIGHT  protested against the attempt to combine in the present Bill objects not compatible with its provisions. If such objects were desired, they might be made the subject of a special Bill, but ought not to be included in this. Hon. Gentlemen might depend upon it that they were taking care over much. People concerned with firms under the Bill were shrewd enough to take care of their own interests, if they only had perfect liberty to act. He could not help thinking that a great deal of the zeal shown by the hon. Baronet was opposed to the Bill itself. Years ago he was opposed to the principle of joint-stock liability, and predicted that disasters would result from it. But the change had been most successful. Freedom of commerce had been attended with enormous advantages here, as it had in every country where it had been adopted. He (Mr. Bright was satisfied that, if the Bill were passed without any of the endless irritating restrictions sought to be put on its free working, we should in a
 242
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he would acquiesce in this arrangement.
 MR. HOPWOOD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether the Government will state what course they intend to take with regard to the Danish Question before the House adjourns for Whitsuntide?
 MR. LOCKE  saw no reason why, if these partnerships were to be registered, they should not say so plainly to all the world.
 MR. MAGUIRE : I am compelled, Sir, by the conduct of the Governors of the Royal Hibernian Military School, to bring before the Committee a subject which, whatever it may appear at the first glance, is one of very grave importance, not only to the Catholic people of Ireland, but to the public service. It is not my fault that this matter should be now brought before Parliament—it is the fault of those who have been appealed to in vain for redress. By the last census the population of Ireland consisted of 4,500,000 Catholics, and about 1,200,000 Protestants and Presbyterians. Now, it is well known that the great majority of those who enlist in the
 216 217 218 "The institution was now to be regarded as a public establishment maintained for the general benefit of the Queen's Irish subjects serving in the field." "He must express his cordial concurrence in the wish expressed by his hon. Friend the Under Secretary at War, that as vacancies occurred among the officers, they should be filled up solely with a view to the objects for which the school was supported, and that no selections should be made with the intention of favouring any one class in the community." 219 "The people of Ephesus worshipped a goddess, whom they called Diana. The idolaters of Rome at the present day do the very same thing." 220 "The Rev. Mr. Leonard would, however, do well to bear in mind, that upon any future occasion, when he may see reason to complain of the conduct or proceedings of any officer of the institution, he should in the first instance apply for redress to the Governors of the School." "Adjutant General's Office, Royal Hospital, Dublin, May 22nd, 1862. "Sir,—I am directed by Sir George Brown to acknowledge the receipt (yesterday evening) of your letter of the 19th instant, in which you are pleased to favour the General with your opinion as to the most judicious mode of selecting teachers for the Royal Hibernian Military School.—I have the honour to be, sir, your obedient servant, (Signed) "G. S. BROWNRIGG, Deputy. "The Rev. John Leonard, R. H. M. School, St. Bridget's Blanchardstown." 221 "War Office, 18th June, 1862. "REV. SIR,—In reply to your letter of 29th ultimo, addressed to the Secretary to the Council of Military Education, I am directed by Secretary Sir George Lewis to acquaint you, that though the actual appointments alluded to in your letter are not precisely specified, it is assumed that they are such as are comprehended in the Charter granted to the Royal Hibernian School, dated 14th December, 1846, which vests the power of appointment to certain offices in the Governors of the institution. I am therefore to state, that your application should be made to the Governors, instead of the Council of Military Education.—I am, sir, your obedient servant, (Signed) "EDWARD LUGARD, "Rev. J. Leonard, St. Bridget's, Blanchardstown, Dublin. 222
 MR. VANCE  said, that the hon. Member for Dungarvan (Mr. Maguire) had moved this Session for some elaborate Returns connected with the Royal Hibernian School, In those Returns it was proposed to embrace statements as to the religion of the teachers and the boys at the school, as well as other minute particulars which he believed it was not in accordance with the practice of the House to have furnished. But, be that as it might, he had been awaiting the production of those papers, and had not for a moment supposed that the hon. Member would have substituted for them Returns of his own. [Mr. MAGUIRE: It is on Returns presented by order of this House that I mainly rely.] Yes; Returns for 1861, which were not at all the same as those for which the hon. Member had moved, and into the examination of which he had meant to enter during the Whitsuntide recess, not at all imagining that in their absence the subject would have been brought forward that evening. As, however, it had been brought forward, he might take that opportunity of saying that he knew the Governors of the institution in question, and that a more honourable or high-minded body of men did not exist. The school, he might add, was a military school; the boys in it were intended for the most part for Her Majesty's service; and if a conflict of opinion on sectarian matters were allowed to prevail there, a spirit of insubordination would be likely to be produced, not only among the teachers, but the taught. The school as it stood, he believed, was working admirably, and it would be dangerous to introduce novel experiments. He hoped
 223
 MR. J. C. EWART  hoped the hon. Gentleman would not abandon the measure, as notwithstanding the alterations that had been made there was much good in it.
 MR. DILLWYN , in moving the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire as to the most suitable arrangements to be made respecting the Patent Office Library and Museum, said, that he had communicated with the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn (Lord Stanley) the Chairman of the Patent Law Commission, who had informed him that he saw no objection to the appointment of this Committee before the Report of that Commission had been presented.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, that the Government wanted to send everything to South Kensington, where they believed perfection reigned; but by the country at large the proposal to send the School of Naval Architecture there was looked on as simply ridiculous.
 MR. HASSARD  said, he wished to ask Mr. Attorney General for Ireland, If he has directed his attention to the Petition filed by the Commissioners of Charitable Donations and Bequests in Ireland against the Attorney General and others in the matter of the "Fanning Charity, Water-ford," and to the Judgment pronounced thereon by the Lord Chancellor of Ireland on the 3rd May instant; and if it is his intention to introduce any measure to amend the Laws relating to Charitable Donations and Bequests in Ireland?
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : I wish to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State, Whether the Government have received any information of a collision in the North Sea, off Heligoland, between the Austrian and Danish ships of war; and, if he has received any information, is it to the effect that the Austrians have got the worst of it?
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Is the right hon. Gentleman aware of them now?
 MR. COBDEN  begged to state, in answer to the Question put to him by his right hon. Friend, that it was his inten-
 202
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, that his hon. Friend had, he thought, done wisely in withdrawing the Bill. As far as he could see, the Government appeared to have no decided opinion on the matter, inasmuch as some of its members had voted one way and some another in the divisions which had just taken place.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  thought his hon. Friend the Member for Birmingham had a fair right to expect that his Bill would have received the support of the House, seeing that a similar measure had passed through the House, after having been referred to a Select Committee last Session. If exception were to be taken, as seemed to be the case, to every word in every clause, it would be impossible even for the Government to carry through such a measure. The Government, he might add, had several Sessions ago brought forward a proposal embodying the principle of enabling persons to lend money to prosecute a business without making themselves general partners, but the proposal had not met with much favour. He could only say, in conclusion, that he regretted his hon. Friend had been so discouraged as to be induced to give up the Bill.
 MR. O'HAGAN  said, in reply, that his attention had been directed to the case in question, and that the Lord Chancellor had expressed some doubts as to his jurisdiction in certain matters of great importance relating to the Charities in Ireland. He had himself been in communication with the Commissioners of Charitable Donations, and he proposed to introduce a
 193
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  wished to make a similar appeal to his hon. Friend, who, he was sure, was of too high a character to be influenced in the matter by mere feeling. If he were to take further time to consider the course which he should pursue, it was quite possible he might find in the Bill provisions still untouched which would render it worth his while to persevere with it. If, however, he should withdraw it, he had no doubt the Government would be quite ready to take into consideration the question, whether it was possible to frame a measure on the subject; while, at the same time, it was not, in his opinion, desirable to lay it down as a rule that all questions would be more advantageously dealt with by the Government than by a private Member.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the hon. and gallant Gentleman in saying that his right hon. Friend knew nothing about the matter, had gone somewhat beyond the ordinary licence of debate. The position of the officers in Chelsea Hospital did not appear to him to be precisely analogous to that of ordinary regimental officers residing in barracks. The former were rather to be regarded in the light of civil or public
 200
 MR. BUCHANAN , as a Member of the Select Committee to which reference had
 244
 MR. BUCHANAN  moved the omission of the words "or contract to lend." His objection to the proposal for contracting to lend was, that all those who had advocated the measure did so on the ground that it would chiefly be of use in enabling young men to come forward in business, by their friends advancing them a loan without incurring the risk of a partnership. No doubt the advance of money to such young men was of the utmost importance, but it was quite a different thing to "contract to lend" and to actually advance money.
 MR. W. EWART  said, he would also have been glad to see a larger item for reading and recreation. Remembering how fond the French soldiers were of gardens, and how healthfully and innocently they were employed in taking care of them, he could not help wishing that the English soldier, too, could have his little garden at the camp. He was glad to see an item of £4,000 for gymnasia, and thought that these establishments might be extended greatly for the benefit of the army.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  contended that the hon. Member for Birmingham had adopted the right course in withdrawing the Bill, and trusted the Government would bear in mind the fact that the commercial community would expect from them the introduction, with as little delay as possible, of a measure embodying the principle involved in the present proposal.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  remarked that in the divisions which had just taken place the President of the Board of Trade had voted one way and the Attorney General another.
 MR. GREGORY  wished to hear further particulars from the Government, for the House ought to have more precise knowledge before deciding on the subject. He thought it would be well to wait for the Report of the Commission.
 MR. MITFORD  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education, If the Minutes of May 19th, 1863, and March, 11th, 1864, on Endowed Schools, are to be withdrawn?
 MR. MITFORD : Are the Minutes to be withdrawn or not?
 MR. MONSELL  said, it was utterly impossible that the exact sum taken every year could be spent. For instance, there was a strike among the workmen engaged on a particular work, a portion of the money voted would have to be re-paid into the Exchequer. With regard to the large sum being spent in fortifying Halifax, Nova Scotia, the other day one of Her Majesty's ships was obliged to ask permission to go into a dry dock at Boston, because we had no dock of our own on that coast. It was absolutely necessary, especially in the present state of the world, that the money being laid out at Halifax should be made as available for its purpose as possible, and that proper means for refitting our ships should be provided in that quarter.
 MR. MONSELL  said, that the hon. Member for Rochdale (Mr. Cobden) had stated that he intended to bring the subject of the Government manufacturing establishments under the consideration of; the House: he therefore desired to ask the hon. Member if he could state when he would carry that intention into effect, as he (Mr. Monsell) thought he would be able to show that the manufacturing establishments had been the means of saving large sums of money to the public?
 MR. SCHOLEFIELD  said that, in compliance with the suggestions which had just been made to him, he should withdraw the Motion that the Chairman leave the Chair, and simply move that he report Progress, with the view of proceeding with the Bill after the Whitsuntide recess.
 MR. SCHOLEFIELD  opposed the Amendment. He had never put the case which his hon. Friend had just put to the Committee. The Committee would surely not compel a limited partner to pay into a concern which did not want the money. The clause only carried out the principle of a company whose shares were not paid up in full.
 MR. SCHOLEFIELD  said, after the decisions of the Committee he thought it would be useless to proceed further with
 243
 MR. SCHOLEFIELD  said, the proposition of the hon. Gentleman was fully discussed on a former evening, and he would not repeat the arguments which were then used against it. However, he might observe that it would be just as reasonable for the hon. Gentleman to ask that every loan should be registered as to ask that loans under this Bill should be registered. The Amendment would be a serious detriment to the measure, and he hoped the House would not adopt it.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, the French divided their administration into  personnel matériel s d s d
 COLONEL SYKES  complained that the
 215
 COLONEL SYKES  said, there was no army in the world in which military pride was stronger than in the French army, and there was none in which so many works were performed by the soldiers. The French soldiers were not only employed in constructing fortifications, but they hutted themselves and built their own barracks; even the Sepoys built their own huts; and if in this country such works were made, as they might easily be made, an honourable occupation, and, at the same time, a source of profit, our soldiers would emulate the French in their devotion to industrial works. He wished to know how and by whom these Estimates were verified, and who gave the final fiat for their adoption? The French system of estimate and check was, undoubtedly, worthy of inquiry, if not of adoption. As an instance of the slovenly way in which these Estimates were presented, he would refer to an item for the "purchase of land and erection of rifle range, huts, &c., for 700 men," at Gravesend. The total Estimate for this was given at £64,000; the total amount already voted, £73,800; the gross sum already expended, £54,252; so that about £19,000 remained in hand; and yet the House was now asked to vote £2,000 more, while it was stated that £6,177 would be required to complete the work. Surely there must be some blundering here.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, the cost of military education last year was £172,201, or at the rate of £1 3 s d 231 s d
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he wished to ask Mr. Attorney General, To which of the Hong Kong Ordinances of January, 1855, "to enforce neutrality during the contest now existing in China," his answer to the Member for South Northumberland was intended to apply, that of the 15th January, 1855, or that of the 17th January, 1855, or to both.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  thought that some further explanation was required in reference to the Vote.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  asked for an explanation of the extraordinary charge of £973 for forage for the Commander-in-Chief.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, no proper explanation had been given of the item of £973, the reduction of the allowance for forage to the Commander-in-Chief. He would move the reduction of that item by the sum of £473, and the reduction of the allowance for forage to the Adjutant General by the sum of £244.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, that with every desire to give credit to the hon. Member for Dungarvan for honest zeal, he thought that it would have been better if he had told the Committee that although complaints had been made as to the introduction of controversial tracts into this school, they had not been substantiated, except in two isolated cases. He had heard with surprise the speech of the noble Lord opposite, and he must say that before the noble Lord went the length of inferring censure on Sir George Brown and the Governors of the Institution, he ought to have satisfied himself that there was sufficient reason for doing so. In justice to those who had the management of the school, it was only right to assume that if they had not acted upon the advice of the Government it was because they had good reasons for adhering to the old system. No one had cast the slightest doubt upon the efficiency, value, and excellence of the school. The school was popular with the army, and he had not heard of any complaints of its management having been made by those most interested in it. Why, then, should a change be made; and why should the masters be altered simply and solely that some of them might be Roman Catholics? Had the noble Lord fully considered the effect of such a change, and did he desire to introduce that principle in every instance? Did he desire to see the harmony of the school broken up by religious dissension between the boys, and—what was worse —between the teachers? The object of the attack of the hon. Member for Dungarvan was altogether a polemical one. [Mr. MAGUIRE: No, no!] That would be the opinion of every impartial person who had heard or might read it, and the proof that it was so was to be found in the stress which the hon. Gentleman had laid upon the appointment to a sub-
 227
 MR. F. S. POWELL  observed, that in these discussions there always appeared to exist a confusion between surveys and maps. It was supposed that because a survey was on a certain scale, therefore the map must be on the same scale; but, in truth, if the survey was made, the question as to the scale upon which the map should be made was subordinate and
 235
 MR. F. S. POWELL  thought that the Committee were entitled to know what was the time at which the ordnance and geological surveys would be completed. They had been voting, year after year, large sums of money, and they were now entitled to know when they would obtain the fruit of their labours.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : No, I am not.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I stated all the information I had myself—which was that a suspension of hostilities, which is practically the same thing as an armistice, had been agreed upon for a month. That was all the information I had received at the time. My noble Friend the Secretary for Foreign Affairs was at the Conference, and sent that information to me. It was impossible for him at the moment to communicate to me the terms of the armistice. I only regret that I did not know them at the time; but, as I stated, there could be no difficulty in communicating them at a future time. I can assure the right hon. Gentleman that I withheld no information from the House.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, the Question put to me by the hon. Gentleman is similar to that which was put to me the other day by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate). I then stated that the Conference was sitting, and that we hoped that its first result would be the establishment of an Armistice, and that the Government would continue, in concert with other Powers, to take those measures which were best calculated to conduce to the restoration of peace. I have now the satisfaction to inform the House that at its sitting to-day the Conference has agreed upon an Armistice for a month.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, I am quite unable to communicate the terms of the Armistice at present, but there will be no difficulty of doing so at an early date.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : My right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Colonies received a telegram this afternoon at four o'clock from the Governor of Heligoland, in these words—
 "Two o'clock, p.m.—Austrian squadron, consisting of two frigates and three gunboats, just engaging Danish squadron, consisting of two frigates and one corvette, six miles east of Heligoland. Result later." "Four o'clock, p.m.—Danes have won the action. One Austrian frigate is in flames, and she, together with the other Austrian frigate and gunboats, are making for Heligoland. They are almost in English water. The  Aurora
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that he had received no information respecting the case referred to by the hon. Member. No application had been made to him by any of the parties concerned. If the hon. Gentleman would give him the particulars, he would make inquiries, but he could not give any intimation as to what the result of those inquiries would be. It was probable that the prisoners were convicted under the Vagrancy Act,
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that it was proposed first of all to take the Motion referred to by the right hon. Member, and a Motion would be made to postpone the Orders of the Day until it had been disposed of. The hon. Member for the King's County (Mr. Hennessy) has a Motion upon the paper for Thursday with reference to Poland. As he (Sir George Grey) understood that it was not the wish of the hon. Gentleman to bring forward his Motion until the noble Lord at the head of the Government was in his place, he should ask him to postpone it until the first evening after the holidays, when Supply was the first business to be brought forward, so that the hon. Member would then stand in the same position as he did now.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  desired to point out that many of the works mentioned in the Estimates—such as those for improved drainage—might be performed by the soldiers themselves, and in this way not only would economy be practised, but—and this was a still more important object—the character and well-being of the men would there by be improved. The greatest curse of our soldiers was the idleness in which they were kept; and he thought that after they had been taught their drill they ought to be employed in industrial capacities, thereby earning a little money for themselves, learning to perform duties with which foreign armies were perfectly familiar, and which would often save them from severe suffering in the field. With regard to Aldershot, he hoped the men would be removed as much as possible from that abominable village, where more injury was done to their  morale
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, that the cost of education in the army must be compared with the cost of education in the country generally. Every one knew that just as good education might be got at Vienna, Berlin, or in various parts of Italy, for one-third of what it would cost in this country.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  asked why the recommendations of the Committee on the Cadastral Survey, in 1862, were not carried out. He wished to urge on the Government the propriety of completing the survey on the 25-inch scale, such as had been adopted by most of the principal countries in Europe. A Government map on such a scale, accessible to every one, would be of immense advantage in an infinite number of cases, particularly in those connected with the sale and transfer of land, drainage, questions arising under the Parochial Assessment Acts, &c. It was shown before the Committee which investigated this subject that the larger the sum voted at the outset the cheaper the map would be in the end, as delays and difficulties inseparable from endless changes of plan would thereby be obviated.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  thought the Committee must feel obliged to the noble Marquess for his able answers to the numerous questions put to him, and which might well embarrass any one. As to the sale of public property, however, the noble Marquess had overlooked the main point— namely, that so large a sum as £16,000 should have been received for public property, and yet that there should be no record of that expenditure in any authorized document. No Government Department ought to have the power of selling public property without first duly advertising the sale, and then accounting for it in some authentic public record.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  called the attention of the noble Marquess to the fact that there were in this Vote three items for the purchase of land, but no estimate of the cost was given. He also wished to know what were the powers possessed by the Secretary of State in respect to sales of land? The Committee would see that it was of great importance that no sale of public land should take place without being brought to the knowledge of the public by general advertisement. There had been a sale of land recently, of the site of the house and battery at Brighton, for £16,000, which was only made known through the Report of the Commissioners of Audit, to whose knowledge it came by accident, and of which sale there wag no record in the War Office accounts. It was a singular transaction, and required the attention of the Government. It appeared that the solicitor of the War Office had sold this land, and, as he presumed, by the order of the Secretary for War, to a company, the original intention being that it should be exchanged for land belonging to the Woods and Forests Department. These transactions ought not to be allowed to pass without the knowledge of the House. He hoped also that the noble Marquess would be able to afford the House some prospect of a diminution of the expenditure at Aldershot.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  complained that Captain Coles and other gentlemen who competed with the Constructor of the Navy were much obstructed by official obstacles, while the Constructor of the Navy was left to himself. The  Royal Sovereign
 SIR JERVOISE JERVOISE  said, he would beg to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education, Whether, in the absence of the Return of the Results of Experiments in Vaccinating Sheep, the question of Infection at the long range of 500 yards, as stated at p. 259 of the Fifth Report of the Medical Officers of the Privy Council, will be considered by the Select Committee on the Cattle Diseases Prevention and Cattle, &c. Importation Bills?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  hoped his noble Friend the Secretary of the Admiralty would re-consider his determination, and not produce the papers on this subject until they were in a perfect state; because the papers which he had consented to produce would give a very imperfect view of the position in which this very interesting question now stood. He hoped his hon. Friend (Mr. Augustus Smith) would not press for their production at present.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he wished to ask, Whether the Motion of the noble Lord the Prime Minister, for the appointment of a Committee upon the Reports of Education Inspectors will come on for discussion on Thursday, and what will be the order of the business of the evening?
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  supported the Amendment. He should like to have some proof of the injury likely to be done by the insertion of the word. The word "limited," as at present applied to various undertakings, was not detrimental to the investment of capital therein. Surely when a partnership changed its character, and came under the operation of the Bill, the public were entitled to be acquainted of the fact.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  thought the principle involved in the measure was of far too great importance to be left in the hands of a private Member, and was of opinion that if it was to be dealt with at all it should be dealt with by the Government.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  said, it was in the civil administration of the army that reductions must take place, and pointed out that there was an increase of clerks simultaneously with a reduction of the army.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  congratulated the noble Lord on his explanation, and appealed to the hon. Member for Gloucester (Mr. C. P. F. Berkeley) to withdraw his Amendment. He, however, thought that there ought to be a statement in the Estimates as to where the money for sanitary purposes and for married soldiers' quarters was to be expended. He had to call the attention of the noble Lord to the disgraceful state of the Clarence Barracks at Portsmouth. They were not fit to put a regiment into, Formerly they were barracks for Marines; but they were condemned thirty or forty years ago by the Admiralty, and had been sold because they were unfit for the Marines; but they were now turned into permanent barracks for our soldiers. The officers' quarters and the men's rooms were both bad, and the place in which the meat was stored was placed in the immediate neighbourhood of the most offensive smells, and it would be impossible to keep the meat sweet for a day in Bummer. With regard to Aldershot, he knew the feeling of commanding officers to be that, while it was a very good thing to have troops there in summer, in winter it was a very bad place, both for their young officers and their men, and that there ought to be regular barracks for the winter months.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  considered that the department should first direct its attention to the survey of the populous districts, and where the country was greatly subdivided. He understood that maps of portions of Kent and the South Coast were in a very forward state, and nearly fit for publication. He suggested that these should be brought out at once, as the large sale they would be sure to command would greatly stimulate the progress of the rest of the survey. It was idle to go on publishing maps of distant and unimportant portions of the country to the neglect of fields so much more productive and inviting.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  reminded the noble Marquess the Under Secretary of State for War, that on Thursday last he had called his attention to the dilapidated condition of the stables and other buildings in the North Camp at Aldershot, and asked for some information upon the subject, but that the Chairman had been directed to report Progress before he received an answer. He would now repeat his request for information. He would also ask for some explanation of an item in the Vote for a naval store at Bermuda, which appeared to him rather a matter for the Naval Estimates.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he concurred with the noble Lord who presided over the Survey Committee (Viscount Bury) that the early surveys were inaccurate, though they referred to some of the most important districts of the country. The hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) seemed to be carried away with strange notions as to the use of those maps. He seemed to think that they were only intended to point out the boundaries of gentlemen's estates. The parish authorities, however, wanted the correct boundaries; so did the Tithe Commutation Commissioners. All parties, in fact, required to have accurate maps with the view to the proper conveyance of land. He was anxious to see accurate maps, and he did not care about the expense of obtaining them.
 VISCOUNT BURY  said, that the spirit of the recommendation of the Committee had been carried out. The sum of £67,000 voted last year for the survey had been increased this year to £75,000. The Government were assailed from two opposite quarters on this matter, for while some hon. Members advised a diminution of the expenditure, others thought a largely increased expenditure would be beneficial. The Committee which sat for two years recommended that a sum of £90,000 should be devoted annually to complete the survey of Great Britain, and the late Sir George Lewis announced that this recommendation would be adopted by the Government and carried into effect. The history of the Ordnance Survey showed that the sums voted by Parliament had fluctuated to a degree that had paralyzed the survey. and caused a waste of £40,000. At first the survey was not conducted according to one uniform system of triaugulation, and when the results were put together, enormous discrepancies were observable. It was then resolved that there should be one uniform system of survey for the whole of the kingdom. A few years ago, however, it was determined to survey Ireland on the six-inch scale, and also some of the Northern counties. The whole survey was then suspended and referred to a Committee which reported in favour of the one-inch scale. The matter was then referred to a Royal Commission, which recommended the 25-inch survey. The House, on the Motion of Sir Denham Norreys, affirmed the principle of the 25-inch survey, but next year the hon. Member for St. Andrew's (Mr. E. Ellice) carried a Motion condemning the principle. By this means the operations of the department were paralyzed, and a loss of from £35,000
 234
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that the Colonial allowances were not made by the Government, but in almost all cases by the Colonies themselves out of the Colonial funds. In this case the Government had received an application from officers in command of troops at Bermuda for increased allowances in consequence of the high rates of provisions. From a comparison of the contract rate of provisions at this station and elsewhere in the West Indies and at home, it did not appear that the rate by any means was excessive. The indulgence had, however, been granted to the officers to draw rations, or rather provisions, for their wives and families at contract prices. But it was not considered that a case had been made out for any extra allowances owing to the high rate of accommodation. He believed that accommodation had become very dear, but nearly all the officers were provided with quarters.
 LORD STANLEY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whe-
 259
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, he wished to know whether the despatch which was the cause of all the mischief had been submitted to the Crown?
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, in reply, that these Rules had been published, and there was no reason why they should not be laid on the table immediately. They had been already in operation some time, and consequently their operation could not be deferred. They had been drawn up in consequence of recommendations which had reached the Board from the managers and masters of a great many of the schools.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, he was not aware that they had that effect.
 MR. COWPER  said, he did not propose to move on Thursday next the Estimate to which the hon. Gentleman had alluded, inasmuch as it would not have remained long enough on the table to enable hon. Members to consider it. With respect to the other Question, he thought it would be premature to come to any decision as to the terms upon which the National Gallery was proposed to be given up to the Royal Academy, until the House should have had an opportunity of expressing its opinion as to the proposal of erecting the National Gallery upon the site of Burlington House. When that Question had been determined it would be time to decide what ought to be done with the building in Trafalgar Square. As two or three years must elapse between the voting of the Estimate and the completion of the building, it would be unnecessary to settle these terms at the present moment.
 MR. COWPER  said, that he had a plan which he believed he should be able to place in the Library to-morrow. The plan would fully explain to hon. Members what it was proposed to do with regard to the site.
 MR. COWPER  said, he believed that the plan he had referred to would furnish the hon. Gentleman with all the information he required.
 MR. WHITE*  rose to move for "a Select Committee to inquire into the operation and incidence of our present fiscal system, and to consider and report if any and what measures could be devised to secure a more equitable adjustment of the burden of Imperial taxation." The hon. Gentleman said, he knew the House would acquit him of obtrusiveness or presumption in rising to address them on this question. Ever since he had had the honour of a seat in that House he had been especially solicitous that this Motion should be brought before them. He thought that the appointment of a Committee to inquire into the operation and incidence of our present financial system, for the purpose of suggesting measures of fiscal amelioration and social advancement, would be a source of great satisfaction to the people of this country. This was not a party or a class topic; it affected alike the interests of every subject of the realm. He should be exhausting the patience of the House if he were to attempt to go into a full examination of this question, and he must content himself with a statement which was far from commensurate with its extent and importance. But if he were asked why he attempted it, he would point to the chronic dissatisfaction of the country with reference to taxation, and would ask whether there might not be some valid reason why men possessed of ample means were disposed to shirk and evade the discharge of their necessary burdens. He did not believe that there was anything inherent in British subjects which led them to evade the duties they owed to their Sovereign; such a proceeding could only spring from a feeling in their minds that they had not justice done to them, and which thus induced them to avoid the claims of the tax-gatherer. Since the House had now apparently acquiesced in an annual expenditure of £67,000,000, he thought the time had arrived when they should investigate how this vast sum might be raised in a manner least burdensome and detrimental to the progress of the nation. If the result of the labours of the Committee which he wished to be appointed should be a substantial approval of their present fiscal system, then it would remove the erroneous impressions which existed in the public mind; but if otherwise, then the basis would be laid of
 262 Declaration and Protestation against the illegal, detestable, and oft-condemned tax or extortion of Excise in general monstrum horrendum 263 264 "I never can think," said the right hon. Gentleman, "of direct and indirect taxation, except as I should think of two attractive sisters who have been introduced into the gay world of London, each with an ample fortune, both having the same parentage (necessity and invention), differing only as sisters may differ, as where one is of lighter and another of darker complexion, or where there is some agreeable variety of manner, the one being more free and open and the other more shy, retiring, and insinuating. I cannot conceive any reason why there should be unfriendly rivalry between the admirers of these two damsels; and I frankly own, whether it be due to a lax sense of moral obligation or not, that as Chancellor of the Exchequer, if not as a Member of this House, I have always thought it not only allowable, but even an act of duty, to pay my addresses to them both. I am, therefore, as between direct and indirect taxation perfectly impartial." 265 Edinburgh Review 266 "What are the annual savings of the country? May we take them at £50,000,000? Enormous as that sum is, I believe it may be taken as the amount which the skill and the capital, and the industry and the thrift of England, may be computed to lay by every year." Economist 267 Economist "The Customs yield a revenue of £24,000,000; but there is hardly an article of luxury charged at the Custom House. Speaking roughly, the Customs duties are taxes on physical necessities (or what have become such) or physical enjoyments. We have been abandoning Customs duties paid by the rich, and have been taxing for a vast revenue articles consumed by the lower and middle order of mankind. We need not observe that in a country like England our taxation ought not only to be fair in reality, but fair in seeming—conspicuously fair. The rich alone impose the taxes which poor as well as rich pay; and unless, therefore, there is some large unmistakable tax, which no one can overlook, that taxes very rich people much the most, there will always be, perhaps there ought always to be, bitterness and dissatisfaction." s d s s d d 268 s s s 269 Almanach de Gotha Statesman's Year Book s s s 270 s "No one can deny that Customs and Excise duties, and other indirect taxes, are more costly than direct taxation; and no one can doubt that they have injured commerce, and checked the production of wealth." octroi 271 272 273
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he rose to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education, When the "Supplementary Rules," recently issued by the Committee of Council, will be laid upon the table; and whether he will consent to defer the operation of those Rules until they had been laid upon the table?
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman denied that the Rules had the operation of withdrawing the grant in certain cases, and diminishing it in others?
 MR. O'REILLY  said, that the Resolution of the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. White) deserved the serious consideration of the House, though the hon Gentleman, in the speech in which he had introduced it, had rather damaged his case by enlarging too much the scope of his inquiry, and to a certain extent prejudging the issue by
 282 283
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether he is in a
 260
 MR. LAYARD  said, that the Government had no official information on the subject.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that the warrant had been submitted to Her Majesty.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he fully admitted that the question presented some peculiar features, but he was not sure that it was sufficiently important to induce him to depart from the course which the constitution imposed upon him, as a Minister of the Crown, not to submit to the decision of the House of Commons a question of purely Executive administration.
 MR. CARDWELL,  in reply, said, it would probably be in the knowledge of the House that in the course of last year a war commenced between the King of Ashantee and a friendly tribe adjoining our settlements on the Gold Coast, arising
 258
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, he would beg to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether he intends, upon Thursday next, to move the Estimate for the erection of a New National Gallery at Burlington House, and whether he will state the terms upon which the National Gallery in Trafalgar Square is proposed to be given up to the Royal Academy?
 MR. CLAY  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether any information has been received respecting the excessive demand for, and consequent high price of, provisions and accommodation at Bermuda; and, if so, whether Her Majesty's Government intend to make a Colonial allowance for Officers on duty in that island?
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, he wished to know whether there will be any objection to lay on the table a plan of Burlington House and grounds?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I was in hopes that a subject of such great importance, and treated at such length, and with such force and clearness by my hon. Friends, might have led other Members to lay their views before the House; for I feel that the question of inquiry into our present system of taxation is one which the Government ought not to take exclusively into its own hands. But as no one has risen to address the House, I will venture to make this observation, which I think must have occurred to my hon. Friends who moved and seconded the Motion, that the very circumstance I have mentioned proves that, at present, there hardly exists in the House that degree of interest in so vast a question which would be absolutely necessary to enable the House to grapple with the enormous labour of the proposed inquiry. We must not conceal it from ourselves—I am sure my hon. Friend does not conceal it from himself—that his Motion bears no relation or resemblance whatever to an ordinary proposal for a Committee. When I observed the terms of his Motion upon the notice-paper that fact was at once obvious to me; but after the speech of my hon. Friend, I must say the terms of his Motion fell very short indeed—I will say immeasurably short—of the wonderful dilation and distension of probable labour which he has sketched out for us. In point of fact, it would be much more difficult to say what topics relating to taxation my hon. Friend has shut out from his inquiry than to enumerate those which he has included. Had my hon. Friend limited his proposal to any one of the subjects on which he has
 276 277 278 279 280 New York Almanac 281
 MR. W. EWART  thought it a deplorable fact in our' fiscal history that, whereas in foreign countries at least two-thirds of the national income were derived from direct taxation, with this country it was just the reverse. He believed that in time the labouring classes, as they increased in intelligence, would press for a more extended application of the system of direct taxation. Time would be the best friend of the hon. Member for Brighton.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  rose to second the Motion, in the firm belief that the proposed inquiry would be for the benefit of all classes, not excepting the owners of land. About two years since the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Bucks compared the landed interest to a milch cow; and that figure might be accepted when it was borne in mind that a milch cow upon a dairy farm was much better fed than a cow upon an ordinary farm, where all the turnips were sent to market. And so it would be better for the landed interest to submit to some well-devised plan of direct taxation, which would enable the country to get rid of those taxes which now pressed heavily upon the working classes, and to a certain extent were injurious to the owners of land. If they looked back to what took place after the close of the last great war, they found that in 1821 landowners were described as being in great difficulties, although at that time the landed interest did not contribute directly to the Imperial taxation. Now, however, land was rising in value, and there were numerous competitors for any vacant farm, although the landed interest now did contribute a moderate sum to the taxation of the country. One of the great objects of his hon. Friend the Member for Brighton (Mr. White) was to get rid of any taxes still existing which crippled the industry and pressed on the resources of the working classes of the population, and which indirectly kept down the value of laud. The results of the fiscal changes which had taken place since 1842 might be gathered from the value of the fixed property of the country; and, notwithstanding the imposition of the income tax and the great changes in the Customs duties, it appeared from Schedule A that this had risen upwards of 40 per cent in value. It might be said that the increase was owing mainly to the number of additional houses; but landed proprietors, he thought, would gladly receive building instead of agricultural rents; and in land alone there had been a rise in value of upwards of 10 per cent between 1844 and 1861, while in that time the increased taxation cast upon land by the income tax had not been more
 274 Sybil 275
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER,  in moving for leave to introduce a Bill to enable the Benchers of the Inns of Court to appoint Judicial Committees in certain cases, and to give the necessary powers to such Committees, said, that hon. Members were probably aware that the Benchers of the Inns of Court exercised judicial or  quasi 284
 SIR JERVOISE JERVOISE  rose to more—
 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that She will be graciously pleased to cause full information to be given to this House on the subject of Treasure Trove; and, further, that She will cause such measures to be taken as may tend to make the enforcement of the rights of the Crown more uniform and more consistent with the legitimate claims of the owners of property where objects of interest and value are discovered, for which no owner can be found,"
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether it is true that war has been commenced with Ashantee; whether precautions have been taken to meet the drain of life which must ensue in so deadly a campaign; and whether a largely increasing expenditure may be looked for in consequence in the Gold Coast Colony?
 MR. HIBBERT  said, he thought that the House ought to be put in possession of more than the ground-plan.
 MR. BAINES* : Mr. Speaker, I am sure I shall receive an indulgent hearing from the House on this occasion, because I have to plead the cause of those who neither in person nor by their representatives are
 286 287 288 289 290 "The principles upon which, according to all the authorities, a measure of reform ought to be based, were, first, a more equal distribution of the representation in respect to property and population, and next, the recognition of the rights of the labouring classes to some share of political power." "Hon. Gentlemen opposite, and many also on his side of the House, said, at the last General Election, that by their improved intelligence and increased respectability, the working classes were fairly entitled to some share of that political power from which they were excluded by the operation of the first Reform Bill. That might be perfectly true in regard to the boroughs." 291 Parliamentary Companion "Not opposed to the extension of the franchise to those who are well qualified by education and the increase of intelligence to exercise such a trust." 292 "In favour of the franchise being extended to all those among the working classes who, by education and intelligence, and the moral training: produced by habits of industry and thrift, are qualified to make choice of a representative." 293 294 295 Athenaeum Newspaper Press Directory 
 
 NEWSPAPER CIRCULATION IN 1831 AND 1864. 
 1831. 
 STAMPS ISSUED TO NEWSPAPERS IN 1831. 
 In England 32,000,000 
 " Ireland 4,360,564 
 " Scotland 2,287,750 
 Total for the United Kingdom 38,648,314 
 1864. Copies issued in the whole year. 
 LONDON PAPERS. 
 Daily (Daily Circulation) 248,000 87,776,000 
 Weekly (Weekly Circulation) 2,263,200 117,686,400 
 Total Circulation of London Papers 205,462,400 
 PROVINCIAL PAPERS. 
 DAILY (Daily Circulation). 
 In England (27 Papers) 263,000 
 In Wales (1 Paper) 2,000 
 In Ireland (14 Papers) 96,000 
 In Scotland (9 Papers) 77,000 
 In Jersey (1 Paper) 1,000 
 (52 Papers) 439,000 137,407,000 
 [In 1854 there were only 5 Provincial Daily Papers, with an aggregate circulation of 10,000 copies per day.] 
 WEEKLY (961 Papers)— 
 (Weekly Circulation) 3,907,500 203,190,000 
 Total Circulation of Provincial Papers 340,597,000 
 Grand Total in the United Kingdom 546,059,400 
 Or 1,313 per cent more than in 1831! 296 
 
 LITERARY PERIODICALS & SERIALS IN 1864. 
 MONTHLY. 
 Description. Number of Publications. Price. Monthly Issue. 
 Religious 84 ½d. to 5d. 1,469,500 
 Do. Magazines 22 6d. and upwards. 400,000 
 Temperance 20 ½d. to 3d. 793,250 
 Useful, Educational, and Entertaining 19 1d. to 6d. 338,500 
 Magazines and Serials of a higher class 54 1s. to 2s. 6d. 244,850 
 Serials issued by great Publishing Firms, highly embellished and illustrated ( per number 1s. to 3s. 6d. 363,250 
 Total of Monthly Publications 3,609,350 
 WEEKLY. Weekly Issue. 
 Religious 15 1d. and 1½d. 489,600 
 Useful, Educational, and Entertaining, including serial republications of standard works 32 1d. to 3d. 734,000 
 Journals, containing Novels, Tales, Biographical Sketches,&c 13 ½d. and 1d. 1,053,000 
 Romances, exciting wonder and horror 8 1d. 195,000 
 Immoral Publications 1d. 9,000 
 (Three years ago, 52,500) 
 Free - thinking, under 5,000 
 Total of Weekly Publications 2,485,600 
 Grand Total of Monthly & Weekly Publications 6,094,950 297 "I consider that every grade of the working classes is in a state of progression. Our Free Library has been opened with great and increasing success. The number of volumes issued during the past year was 357,436— daily average 436— and about 10,000 persons have visited the reading room every week. Building societies have increased in number and amount of business, proving that careful and provident habits are understood and practised. Sunday and other schools have progressed in the amount of usefulness. I have every reason to think that, in the last three years, the class in whose hands you wish to place the franchise—namely, the £6 householders—have materially increased in intelligence, and that they are fully entitled by their qualifications to the right to vote. The newspapers have made rapid strides. We have two dailies and four weeklies, circulating about 250,000 copies per week. Periodicals and other newspapers have by no means diminished in sale, but I am not in a condition to give you even an approximate number. There are about 300 families wholly or partially supported by the sale of the various publications, and they employ 1,000 persons at the least. This state of things, contrasted with the state of things up to Midsummer, 1830, when we had two local papers only, whose total circulation was not more than 6,000, and only three periodicals, at 2 d d "It is frequently asserted by Members of Parliament and by those who copy them, that the people care nothing for the right to vote, that they are apathetic, and want not the franchise." 298 "But all these men are advocates for the right to vote, without any other qualification than that of enrolment. But it is amazing to see the progress they have made during the last twenty or twenty-five years. Whatever may be said to the contrary, there is a sturdy self-reliance being implanted in the people, which will exhibit itself whenever the right man in the right place is displayed before them. Great measures have been carried during years gone by, of immense value to the workman, such as the abolition of the bread tax, the uniform system of postage, and the entire abolition of the duty upon newspapers—measures which, had they been accompanied with a progressive admission upon the electoral lists, would have silenced political agitation for ever, Are the people fit for the exercise of political power? I thought they were in 1832, I am the more firmly convinced of it now. Since 1849, no political  emeute 299 300 301 Vict 302
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER* : I must begin, Sir, by observing, that the speech of the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Cave), in my opinion, went far beyond the scope of the Motion which he has submitted to the House. For it was really a speech against all extension of the franchise in the direction of the working classes, and it did not refer merely to the subject of that particular franchise, which we have to adopt or reject in connection with the present Bill. However, it may be said with truth, that it is not the speech in question, but the Motion of my hon. Friend on the one side, and the Amendment of the hon. Member opposite on the other, with which we have principally to deal. Let us, then, consider what is the practical issue raised for our present decision. 313 314 315 onus probandi 316 Hansard 317 318 319 320 321 322 Habeas Corpus Cries of laughter 323 "The great measures that have been passed during the last twenty years by the British Legislature have conferred incalculable blessings on the whole community, and particularly on the working classes, by unfettering the trade and commerce of the country, cheapening the essentials of oar daily sustenance, placing a large proportion of the comforts and luxuries of life within our reach, and rendering the obtainment of knowledge comparatively easy among the great mass of the sons of toil." "Pardon us for alluding to the kindly conduct now so commonly evinced by the wealthier portions of the community to assist in the physical and moral improvement of the working classes. The well-being of the toiling mass is now generally admitted to be an essential to the national
 324 325 326 327
 MR. CAVE* : Sir, in moving the Previous Question, I shall not attempt to follow the hon. Member for Leeds through a mass of statistics and figures, which cannot be checked in debate, and which he has adduced apparently for the purpose of proving that the change he proposes is really no change at all. It is enough to say that it has been made quite clear on former occasions, that in almost every borough in England the addition he would make would be quite enough to turn the scale. I shall now endeavour to show that if, as the House decided by a large majority in 1861, the time the hon. Member then chose for his Motion was not a convenient one, the present cannot be considered more happy. I shall try to prove this from the arguments brought forward then, and reiterated now by the hon. Gentleman, as well as by suggesting that the reasons which I then adduced have, if anything, gathered strength in the interval. It was objected before, and probably may be again, that my Motion ought to be for the rejection of the Bill altogether; but, though the effect would undoubtedly be the same, I have chosen this form as evincing no hostility to the hon. Member's doctrine, that the working classes ought to have a share in the representation. 303 "We had had one bad harvest, and were threatened with a second. Recent events across the Atlantic had raised doubts as to the supply of our most important raw material. The nations of Europe
 304 305 306 The Scotsman "The same agitators who would control by law the working man in meats and drinks are mainly the same people who affect a desire to hand over to him the power of making laws for all other people. They cry out that the working man cannot be trusted to take care of himself, and also that he ought to be intrusted with the care of everybody else. They make him socially a slave and politically a despot. They govern him as a child in his own affairs, and would make him governor over men in the affairs of the nation. They must be wrong on one point or the other. Our view is that they are wrong on both, that the working men are neither unfit to be socially free, nor fit to be politically omnipotent." 307 308 "After all that has been said, it was a very disgraceful thing; but, if your cabmen in London were told that if the National Debt was wiped out they would get beer at half-price, don't you think they would vote for it? Because that is our case; those are the people who govern us here." "England seems hurrying towards universal suffrage. Ah! if she had only our experience; but she seems judicially blinded." "I cannot understand your English Constitution—it is full of the most absurd anomalies, but everything seems to turn out right; while in Prussia we have a perfect Constitution, but we are always in trouble, everything seems to go wrong." 309 arrière pensée 310 "Seeds of discord were being sown in Hungary and Poland, that Prussia was threatening Denmark and France threatening Europe." 311
 MR. SOMERSET BEAUMONT  said, he had listened with great admiration, but not without great surprise, to the eloquent speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, coming as it did from the most prominent Member of a Government, which, more than any other, had damaged this question of Parliamentary reform, which upon this very question had struck their flag, abandoned their party, and handed over the measure to the statistical championship of the hon. Member for Leeds. He would not enter into the discussion of the Bill, for while, like the hon. Member for Shoreham (Mr. Cave), he did not disagree with its principle, but did not think it opportune, he (Mr. Beaumont) must say that in this matter the excellence of the Bill and its opportuneness so hung together that the best thing they could do who did not think the moment opportune was to vote against the second reading. He saw no special reasons for changing his opinion about the opportuneness of the measure, because, though he had heard a great deal upon that and other occasions of an "ugly rush," the only "ugly rush" that he knew of was the "ugly rush" of a certain party when in opposition to the pigeon-holes of White hall and Downing Street. It was because he did not think the present moment opportune that he would record his vote against the Motion.
 MR. HEYGATE , in moving the second reading of the Bill, said, that at present there was no provision for the construction of new bridges in England and Wales out of any public fund. The only means by which a bridge could be obtained was by an Act of Parliament, which cost nearly as much as the structure itself, by the munificence of some private individual, or by a public subscription. The growing traffic in different parts of the country, however, rendered it necessary that further facilities should be provided. He, therefore, proposed in his Bill to give a permissive power to the magistrates to erect bridges over watercourses. Before anything was done there was to be a memorial from the inhabitants, a report by the surveyor, and an inquiry by four justices, two representing the district and two the county at large. If the majority of the latter were in favour of the project, it was to go to the Quarter Sessions for their decision.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the Bill related to an important matter. The principle upon which bridges had hitherto been secured in this country was, that though when built the county was under the obligation of repairing them, the building of them was left to those who wanted them. Now, there was no greater security that bridges should be erected only where they were wanted than that those who asked for them should pay the cost out of their own pocket. He had a great respect for the magistrates, but he
 352
 MR. HEYGATE  said, he would, in deference to the opinion of the House, withdraw the Bill.
 LORD HENRY SCOTT  said, he felt called upon to protest against the assumption laid down by the other side, that they (the Opposition) were opposed to reform,
 347
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he felt bound to answer the appeal of the hon. Member for Bradford (Mr. W. E. Forster), and to acknowledge that he had been accurately described by the hon. Member. He was a decided Conservative, and, as such, he would support any Government that would serve Her Majesty truly to the extent that his principles would admit; and he declared also that, call themselves Conservatives or by whatever other name they chose, he would oppose any Government which departed from the great principles of the Constitution. That was the Conservatism which he professed, that was the Conservatism by which he intended to abide; and he believed that the great strength of the House and of the country consisted in the fact that there were men in that House independent of mere party ties, though he fully acknowledged the propriety of party connection when it was founded on principle. He wished to address himself for a moment to the Question before the House. The hon. Member for Bradford had said truly that this Question of Reform was assuming a practical shape. He (Mr. Newdegate) rejoiced in that as much as the hon. Member, for he held that it was no principle of Conservatism to assume that the temporary arrangements on which the representation of the people was ordered should be treated as permanent and immovable, and as though these arrangements formed the basis of the constitution. He admired that part of the eloquent speech delivered by the right hon. Member for Dublin University (Mr. Whiteside) in which he said, "The constitution of this country had never been based on anything like universal suffrage," and he also approved of the sentiment of the same speech, that "The franchise in England from the earliest times has always been treated as a privilege and as a trust;" while he was as far as the Chancellor of the Exchequer from desiring that the limits assigned to the franchise should exclude the working classes. Why did he resist the Bill of the hon. Member for Surrey (Mr. Locke King) a few weeks ago? Because by transferring to counties the £10 franchise they would have swamped the 40 s 345
 LORD FERMOY  was understood to say that he should support the Bill because he believed an extension of the suffrage to be necessary. He did not know how hon. Gentlemen opposite could be considered sincere Reformers after the speech of the hon. and learned Member opposite (Mr. Whiteside). Here was a moderate measure of Reform offered to them and they refused it? Were they ready to go before their constituencies as anti-reformers? He believed that if they did they would find the feeling of the country was decidedly against them. He supported the Bill because its effect would be to introduce a large body of the working classes into the constituency.
 MR. GREENALL , as one of those to whom the hon. Member for Derby (Mr. Bass) had referred, declared that any promise which he had ever made to his constituents he was ready honourably to perform. He had said that he would support any well considered measure of Reform, and that promise he would keep. He was as favourable as any hon. Gentleman in that House to a fair, a liberal, and a just extension of the suffrage, but he should vote most unhesitatingly against the Bill of the hon. Member for Leeds, because he regarded it as unfair, unequal, and calculated in its action to do more harm than good to the cause of reform.
 MR. WHITESIDE : Sir, I think it must be admitted that we have had reason to deplore the absence of the noble Viscount at the head of the Government more than once during our recent discussions. His presence would be of value to us in the discussion of matters, not only of foreign policy, but of domestic interest; but never would it have been more useful than in the reply we might expect from him— an unanswerable reply—to his refractory Chancellor of the Exchequer. In the midst of grave events of European interest the question of Parliamentary Reform suddenly re-appears, and I would beg the attention of the House to the way in which it turns up at such a crisis. It appears that individual Members, for whose character and consistency I have a great respect, are of opinion that the Constitution of the country should be changed. The hon. Member for East Surrey (Mr. Locke King) introduced a few days ago a Bill to extend the county franchise, and he must have been pleased with the result of his Motion, for he had the support of the noble Viscount in a most enthusiastic speech [ a laugh 328 "The right hon. Baronet the Member for Herefordshire, whose good faith in giving us the advice no one can doubt, also recommended us to withdraw the Bill. The course which the right hon. Gentleman asks us to take, however, is one which it is impossible for the Government to adopt. I may, at all events, venture to say for myself, that in my opinion any Ministry which should have introduced a measure such as this with so little caution, and in a shape so unfitted to undergo discussion as to render it expedient that it should be withdrawn, without the decision of the House being taken upon it, would in so acting have covered itself with irretrievable disgrace. I may add that no such idea, or intention, or dream as the adoption of such a course presupposes has ever entered our heads." 329 330 331 A laugh 332 333 334 onus onus 335 s "Every extension of the franchise in the direction of universal suffrage tends to introduce it, for the jealousy and ambition of the excluded classes are inflamed by the admission of those whose place in the social scale is not higher than their own." 336 "He thought the remark of Mr. Odgers respecting the franchise perfectly justifiable" (as I do not know what the remark of Mr. Odgers was I cannot state it); "there was no doubt the Liberal party in the House of Commons had failed in their duty in this respect towards the working classes, to whom he thought the franchise should be extended, and about which he should shortly have something to say in the House." 337 338 s d 339 340 341 "A thousand years scarce serve to form a State, An hour may lay it in the dust, and when Can man its shattered splendour renovate?"
 MR. MARSH  had much pleasure in seconding the Amendment. Nobody seemed to want reform. There were no public meetings in favour of this measure, and it seemed to him that nobody outside wanted it. It was a measure more sought for in the House of Commons than anywhere else; and he confessed he did not know why that should be, because he, for one, thought he had constituents enough. It had been said that the time when the people did not ask for reform was the best
 312
 MR. BASS  said, it was impossible to conceal that the aspect of this question had very materially changed, both in the House and in the country. It would be very interesting to determine in what proportions the House, the Government, the constituencies, and the unenfranchised classes had contributed to place the Question of Parliamentary Reform in its present unpromising aspect. It was, however, of the last importance that the House should be able to show that they had not misled the people, and had not made promises which hon. Members repudiated as soon as they got back to the House. He took it that all the supporters of Lord Derby who voted for the Reform Bill brought in by his Government had clearly acknowledged the necessity of Parliamentary Reform, and those who supported the present Government were committed to it. [At this time the impatience of the House for a division became so great, and the cries of "Divide! Divide!" so continuous, that the address of the hon. Member could be heard only at intervals.] He was understood to refer to the opinions expressed by the leaders of the Oppo-
 346
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, the hon. Member for Birmingham was well able to explain his own meaning, and he, therefore, should not attempt to do so. Without entering further into the speech of the hon. Member for Shoreham he would say this—that it showed the objection entertained to the extension of the franchise to the working classes was no longer based on a question of time, but of principle. The Conservatives were evidently about to return to their old policy of preserving the Constitution from encroachments. Taking the borough of Bradford, there was no class there more deserving than the working men, whom he found to be intelligent and industrious. This Bill would bring into that constituency a number of working men to equal a third of its whole number. The proportion in Bradford, he believed, would be as large as in any other borough; and to designate a measure of that kind as a domestic revolution was most absurd. The conduct of the Govern-
 343
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  thought that when the hon. Gentleman read the report of his speech in the newspapers, he would find that that was the real purport of the language he had employed. The hon. Member said that a man who was engaged in daily labour could not bring an intelligent mind to the consideration of public questions. But if the hon. Gentleman would go down to Bradford, he (Mr. W, E. Forster) promised to afford him an opportunity of addressing an audience composed entirely of working men, who would listen to him patiently, and who would make to him an answer which would show that although they went daily to their labour they could bring an intelligent mind to bear upon questions of public policy. The hon. Member had certainly talked about a domestic revolution, and he was bound to explain his meaning.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he could not but think that the right hon, and learned Gentleman who had just sat down had widely diverged, in the course of his eloquent address, from the essential merits of the question then under consideration. He did not, however, rise to follow the hon, and learned Gentleman into the history of the Primrose Hill meeting, or of those measures for the benefit of the working classes, nearly every one of which he and his Friends had opposed, but to congratulate the hon. Member for Leeds (Mr. Baines) on the great advantage to the cause which he advocated that had been gained, not only by his able and moderate speech, but by that of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The cause of Reform would manifestly receive a great impetus from this discussion. The hon. Member for Shoreham (Mr. Cave) was surprised that there had been no Reform riots on the part of the working men. The fact was that the working men had long outgrown ideas of that kind—there would be no more Reform riots—but the secret of their inactivity lay in the fact that they were puzzled by the conduct of Parliament about the question of Reform. They could not bring themselves to believe that promises made on both sides of the House to give them a share in the representation would be violated, and therefore they had not spoken out as they would have done if they had had any substantial opposition to contend with. There was, nevertheless, a substantial opposition, and
 342
 SIR BALDWIN LEIGHTON  agreed with the right hon. Gentleman in thinking it most undesirable that such powers should be placed in the hands of magistrates. He hoped the Bill would be withdrawn.
 MR. WATKIN  supported the second reading of the Bill on the ground that there were numbers of the working men throughout the country who were qualified to exercise the franchise, and yet were without the power to do so.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  thought the powers proposed to be given by this Bill very objectionable; and, after the observations which had been made, he hoped the hon. Gentleman would not press the Bill. Without anticipating any question that might be raised as to the amended Highway Act, he believed it would be better to leave the erection of bridges to be dealt with by the Highway Boards.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  begged to assure the hon. Member for Derby (Mr. Bass) that he, for one, was quite ready to go on the hustings, and when he got there he would most assuredly tell his constituents where Reform originated in that House, and how it was defeated; and in doing so he would not shrink from naming those who had reduced the question of Reform to an organized hypocrisy.
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, that an evil existed for which he thought it was the duty of the House to see a remedy supplied. He thought the whole local taxation had arrived at a pitch which was extremely dangerous to the public interests; but he considered that where a grievance was proved it was the duty of the Government to see that some alteration was made in the Highway Act, giving power to the Highway Boards to provide the necessary bridges.
 SIR MATTHEW RIDLEY  hoped the Bill would be withdrawn, believing it would place the justices in a most invidious position. The existing machinery for making bridges over small streams was not so defective as some appeared to suppose.
 MR. CAVE  denied that he bad made any such statement.
 MR. CAVE  said, he wished again to explain. The words he had used were taken from a speech of the hon. Member for Birmingham.
 MR. BAZLEY  seconded the Motion.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that it was certainly not a fact that there existed any local rate under the name of Police Rate, or any other name, levied for the payment of the stipends of the clergy of the city of Edinburgh, Such a rate had been levied until the year 1860, under the name of the Annuity Tax, but an Act passed in that year provided that the, ministers of Edinburgh, being reduced in number, should be paid not by a local rate at all, but by a general charge made upon the revenue of the city. That arrangement was made at the desire of the opponents of the Annuity Tax, for the express purpose of avoiding the imposition of an Ecclesiastical Tax. At the same time,
 362
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that he had received his letter that day. There was no allusion in it to the case to which the hon. Gentleman had referred, and the only information which he had received upon the subject was what had that morning been published in the newspapers.
 MR. COWPER : Sir, the narrowness of Park Lane is manifestly and obviously the cause of great inconvenience and occasional danger. Whatever can be done by regulation of traffic is already accomplished by the presence of two policemen who are generally employed in preventing any obstruction.
 MR. COWPER : I am afraid my hon. and gallant Friend must have fallen in with a policeman who was not on duty, as I am assured by the Commissioners of Police that one policeman is employed in preventing obstructions, while the other was at no great distance, who might be available if any particular obstruction arose. The real remedy is to be found either in widening Park Lane, or in having a new street through Hamilton Place. One thing I cannot admit is, that my hon. and gallant Friend has any right to address this question to me. Park Lane is not Crown property; therefore I would
 364
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, in reply, that no such instructions had been issued. The state of the case was this:—Under the Code of 1860 no Grant was payable to a night school unless it had been held on sixty occasions during the year, nor was any Grant payable in respect of the children unless they had attended fifty times. By the Revised Code two payments were made —2 s d s s
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  replied, that he would not be prepared, on the Monday after Whitsuntide, to fix the day for discussing the Motion in reference to the Committee of Council on Education. It would be obviously inconvenient to fix a day, but one would be fixed as soon as possible.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, that no Minute on the subject had been laid on the table, but it was necessary that some amount of discretion should be left to the heads of the Department. It surely never could have been intended that a school should be open for twenty-four nights only. That would obviously be most improper, and a recurrence in this respect to the practice under the original Code was thought to be justifiable without placing a Minute upon so trifling a subject on the table.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, that although the right hon. Gentleman had in his remarks disarmed his proposition of its most objectionable feature — that of causing delay in the proposed inquiry, yet he thought he should be able to show sufficient reasons why the Amendment should not be adopted by the House. At the very threshold lay the question of the constitution of the Committee. His right hon. Friend the Home Secretary had moved for a Select Committee to inquire into the practice of the Committee of Council as to Reports. That was a definite subject of inquiry, and in the selection of a Committee to consider it, men conversant with official business would be chosen, with special reference to their capability of giving an opinion on the subject of inquiry. But the subject that would be submitted to the Committee, if the Amendment were adopted, would be much wider and larger than an inquiry into the practice of the Privy Council, with reference to the Reports of Inspectors; and to deal with it properly, men must be selected to represent various
 383 "The Lords of your Majesty's most Honourable Privy Council beg leave humbly to recommend to your Majesty that the education establishments now attached to different departments be united under one direction, and be represented in both Houses of Parliament; and for this purpose their Lordships beg leave humbly to recommend to your Majesty that, for the future, the establishment to be called the Education Department be placed under the Lord President of the Council, assisted by a member of the Privy Council, who shall be called the Vice President of the Committee of the said Privy Council on Education, and shall act under the direction of the Lord President, and shall act for him in his absence." 384 "The responsibility of individual members of the Committee of Privy Council I fully admit; hut then that Committee is only summoned occasionally, and then to discuss questions of principle and not of detail. If, however, there were a department in which responsibility should be concentrated, represented by a Minister in this House, who would necessarily be acquainted with all the details of the subject, I think we should derive the same advantage as followed, in regard to the administration of the Poor Law, by having the President of the Poor Law Board in this House; and I believe that there will be a similar advantage in regard to education by the alteration proposed by the measure I refer to." "He must also state that he derived great pleasure from the fact that the Vote for educational purposes had been submitted to the notice of the Committee by a Minister directly connected with the Department of Education in this country, and who must be held responsible for the various items which the Vote contained." 385 386 387 s s s 388 389
 MR. COWPER  said, he could not admit that there was any undue expenditure whatever upon the Parks. The sum of £25,500 upon Hyde Park, St. James's, and the Green Park might seem a large one; but when hon. Members came to think of all that was necessary to be done they would find the expenditure exceedingly moderate. Out of the total he had just mentioned, £10,000 was appropriated to roads, for there were eight miles of roads in these parks, and thirty-five miles of walks. Another item was for repairs of lodges and railings, &c., £5,000. The constables cost £3,500 including everything, and they were less expensive than policemen who were employed at Kennington Park. These constables were always selected from men who had served in the army, a preference being given to those who had distinguished themselves and had obtained medals; but before their admission into the force a medical certificate was required of their being able-bodied men. The parochial rates amounted to £1,100, so that the money actually spent upon the grass lands and plantations was only £3,410 out of the £25,000. That was not a large sum, he thought, considering the necessity of keeping the grass and plantations in the order that was necessary. It seemed to be the impression that large sums were spent in cultivating flowers, but the recent creation of flower beds had given immense gratification at a small cost, and flowers were now necessary for the embellishment of the parks and for the enjoyment of the public. Last year the flowers in Hyde Park cost £600, including fuel, labour, and every expense; and he did not think that that was a large sum. With
 423 424
 MR. COWPER  said, that if the hon. Member would compare the sum proposed that year of £17,300 with £19,611 last year, he would find there was a decrease on the total, and if he compared the particular item under discussion with that of last year he would find a saving of £311.
 MR. PEEL  said, that the House would fall into a serious error if it was led to suppose that the Civil Service expenditure was not audited. On the contrary, the bulk of the Civil Service Estimates were audited with great minuteness. Only a few of the Votes, however, were subjected to the appropriation audit for the purpose of making a comparison between the actual expenditure of the year and the grants of money. He admitted that it was desirable that that audit should be extended so as to embrace all the services comprised in the Estimates, more especially as the Ap-
 407 408 409
 MR. COWPER  said, that the expenditure on Kensington Palace and Bushey House was solely for the purpose of keeping them in ordinary repair and preventing them going to decay. The Chapel Royal, St. James's, was attended every Sunday by a considerable congregation, and it was necessary to maintain the building in a proper state of repair, Though Her Majesty had a chapel at Buckingham Palace, still many members of the Royal family attended the Chapel
 411
 MR. COWPER  said, he had no power to coerce Mr. Prescott.
 MR. COWPER  said, the case was rather peculiar. The gate was, of course, open to the public, as all the other gates of Richmond Park were, but the road that led to the gate was private property. That property had lately come into the possession of Mr. Prescott, and he allowed all the residents in Richmond Park to pass along the road, but not the general public. If Mr. Prescott were more: liberally disposed he might have opened it to the public, but it ought to be remembered that the expense of repairing the road fell upon the owner, and if he were to allow the public to use it the increased expense of the repairs would be thrown upon himself. He had suggested to Mr. Prescott that he might, without incurring additional expense, allow al persons on horseback to make use o the road, but he did not know whether that suggestion would be adopted. If the extreme rights of the Crown were enforced the gate might be shut up al together, which might not be a very agreeable thing to Mr. Prescott and other
 412
 MR. COWPER  said, that the complaint of the hon. Member for Truro really was, that a better system of accounts was now adopted than had been in use in former times. Now that the department of Public Works was separated from the Woods and Forests, it was right that rent should be paid for Crown land, whether let for public or private purposes. With respect to the item for repairs of ecclesiastical buildings in Scotland, they were about twenty-four in number, and among them were the palaces of Holyrood and Linlithgow, the Register Office in Edinburgh, and some ruined cathedrals upon which a small expenditure was necessary to prevent them from absolutely disappearing. He would not follow the hon. and gallant Gentleman opposite (Sir William Fraser) into a discussion of a Vote that would come on for consideration at a future time, but when that time did arrive, he would be prepared to give the fullest explanation, and hoped to persuade the House that the course proposed by the Government was a wise one to pursue. With respect to the point raised by the hon. Member for Greenwich (Mr. Alderman Salomons) it was quite true that a different practice had been adopted with regard to public buildings in the metropolis to that which prevailed in respect of public buildings outside the metropolis. The distinction, however, had been made for many years, and had invariably been observed. The subject adverted to by the hon. Member for Greenwich was under the consideration of the Government and would receive their earnest attention.
 MR. COWPER  said, he must admit that perhaps rent ought to be paid for the Treasury, but the parks were in a different category, as they were placed by Act of Parliament under the management of the Office of Works. The small item for the road at Holyhead was a mere re-Vote of a sum formerly voted, which had lapsed on account of not having been claimed.
 MR. COWPER  said, the furniture was no more than was required for the School of Art and the buildings attached to it. He admitted that in the first instance the item might have been placed in a different class in the Science and Art Department. It had, however, appeared in these Estimates in former years, and it was not desirable to shift it now, as that would alter the headings and prevent an accurate comparison between one year and another.
 MR. COWPER  said, that about one-half of the expenditure was for special purposes, which it was hoped would not occur again. It was required for the completion of very extensive galleries and rooms which had only recently been
 417
 MR. COWPER  said, he was very sorry the hon. and learned Gentleman had been interfered with in returning from his dinner party. [Mr. MALINS: Not myself, but friends of mine.] He wished he could remedy the grievance complained of, but there was this difficulty—the park required to be opened at five o'clock in the morning to enable workmen going to work to pass across the park, and if the gatekeepers had to be up at that early hour it would be hard to ask them to remain up later than ten. Still it was a matter for consideration, and he should be very glad if the difficulty could be got over. The gatekeepers in St. James's Park were required to remain at the gates till ten minutes after they were shut, so that parties who had entered at one gate might be allowed to get out at another. In the
 425
 MR. COWPER  said, the word "plantation" did not express his intention. He contemplated a group of trees which after a little time, when thinned, would stand; out singly, and not interrupt people walking, but would contribute a little to break ' the dreary waste.
 MAJOR GUMMING BRUCE  said, that having seen many famous fresco paintings, he wished to express his belief that a more magnificent work of art than that of Mr. Herbert existed nowhere in the world. He could not quite agree with his hon. Friend (Mr. Baillie Cochrane) that they were not to consider the claims which Mr. Herbert's family had upon him, because it was their duty to encourage a great artist, and relieve his mind from those pecuniary anxieties with respect to those dependent on him, which had depressed the genius of many a great painter. The amount named by the hon. Gentleman who spoke last would be a very moderate sum to pay for a work that would shed the greatest honour on the country which possessed it.
 MR. HEYGATE  said, the discussion was another illustration of the old adage that it never rained but it poured. When the House of Commons was disposed to be liberal and eulogistic it was so with a vengeance. He wished to call attention to the want of ventilation in the Ladies' Gallery, which could only be likened to the Black Hole of Calcutta. There was no possibility of obtaining air except by opening a door, which created a draught by which the ladies were almost blown to pieces. He hoped some improvement would be introduced as soon as possible.
 MR. COWPER  remarked that the ill-ventilation of the remote corner to which the eyes of hon. Members were so often turned was owing to a defect of structure, but he had no doubt that every effort would be made to promote the comfort and convenience of the ladies. With regard to Mr. Dyce, he was a man of great celebrity as well as of high honour, and
 435
 COLONEL DUNNE  moved an Address for the Reports made to the Military Authorities in regard to Breech-Loading Rifles.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTLWTON  opposed the Motion, on the ground that the Reports were strictly confidential.
 MR. CARNEGIE  said, that the Civil Service Cricket Club had expended a great deal of money on their cricket ground in Battersea Park, and had made it worth something, whereas the space occupied by the general public being constantly knocked about was in very bad condition. He could not agree with the hon. Gentleman that the space allotted to the public was worth nothing, but if the general public were admitted to play on the Civil Service ground that would soon be worth very little as a cricket ground.
 MR. HANBURY TRACY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether it is true that the Iron Plate Committee are about to terminate their labours; and, if so, whether the Admiralty will have any objection to lay the Report of their proceedings on the table of the House?
 LORD ELCHO  asked what proportion of the total expenditure was caused by the wages and superannuation allowances of the park keepers. They were in many instances too old and infirm properly to maintain order, and, moreover, were not in the parks at night time. He would suggest that a considerable saving would be effected, and that the parks would be better kept, if they were handed over to the police.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he conceived that the hon. Member for Gal way had done but a simple act of justice to Mr. Herbert in bringing before the House the claims of Mr. Herbert, and he thanked him for having afforded the Government and the House an opportunity of doing that artist
 433
 MR. LYGON  complained that too many of the park gates were closed and left without rangers to let visitors out immediately after the hour arrived for excluding the public from the enclosure in St. James's Park.
 GENERAL BUCKLEY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If he could interfere in the matter?
 GENERAL BUCKLEY : One of them told me that he had no orders.
 GENERAL BUCKLEY  said, he would beg to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether some plan cannot be adopted to prevent the dangerous traffic that exists at Park Lane into Piccadilly, either by widening the street or causing some other way that the traffic may be diverted. He put the question to the right hon. Gentleman in consequence of an accident which occurred last Saturday when a cab was overturned by an omnibus. He believed Park Lane to be the most dangerous corner in London, and from inquiries which he had made of the inhabitants he had ascertained that an accident occurred there nearly every day. He wished to add to his Question an inquiry as to whether some of the Police could not be placed at the spot in order to assist in the regulation of the traffic?
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, in reply, that the Iron Plate Committee, as soon as they had terminated certain inquiries now being made, would cease to exist. With regard to their Report, there would be no objection whatever to its being furnished for the information of the House; but, inasmuch as it would consist of four bulky volumes, in which there were many hundreds of woodcuts, showing the results of the firing upon the plates, the shape of the shot, and various other particulars, he thought it would be hardly wise to go to the expense of printing them. What he proposed to do, therefore, was to lay six copies of the Report, which were now printed for the Committee, in the Library for reference by hon. Gentlemen; and if afterwards it was thought desirable, he should have no objection to print it for general use.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he rose to object to an item of £25 for the construction of a plantation upon Primrose Hill. At present there was a very good view of Highgate from one side, and of Hampstead from the other, and he believed that the only result of the plantation would be to obstruct this view.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he was never satisfied with the mode of arriving at the Estimates of fittings, furniture, &c., required by the various Departments. The officer who was really responsible for the Vote was the Vice President of the Committee on Education, and not the Chief Commissioner of Works; and he regretted that the former right hon. Gentleman was not present to explain it. The right hon. Gentleman the First Commissioner of Works exercised a supervision over the general Votes for furniture; but with regard to the fittings at South Kensington he was in the hands of the officers of the Department, and was as powerless as a child. On the first blush of it the cost appeared to be great, as it amounted to about one-third of the whole sum required, but he had no doubt it was susceptible of explanation. The item, however, ought to be transferred to the Vote for Education.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, the people of Scotland took a different course; with respect to their cathedrals from the people of England. Here the people defaced the cathedrals, but kept them in their own hands; but in Scotland they respected them, but handed them over to the Crown. And now a sum of £9,000 was asked for those beautiful buildings, simply because they were Crown property. With respect to a different question, when the time came for deciding whether a new National Gallery which would cost £150,000, ought to be placed on the ground behind Burlington House, he hoped that matter would be discussed by a more numerous Committee. He hoped at that time, also, they would have a satisfactory solution of that really difficult question, His hon. Friend could not understand how it was that two successive Governments had failed to settle the question about Burlington House; but that there had been two successive Governments explained that unfortunate fact. Had there been only one Government, the
 414
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he would recommend the right hon. Gentleman not to carry out his design with regard to the plantation on Primrose Hill, The space was too contracted.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he wished to know at what date the alteration was made?
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, that thinking it exceedingly desirable that the House should dispose of that little matter before dinner, he would not enter into any of the questions connected with the Revised Code or the supplementary rules which the right hon. Gentleman the Vice President of the Privy Council had discussed. All he desired to do was to state the reasons why he preferred the words of his right hon, Friend to those of the Secretary of State for the Home Department. The Department, in effect, said, "After three or four discussions we have been brought before the House of Commons and condemned. From that condemnation we appeal to the more formal, more exact, and more laborious tribunal of a Committee of the House of Commons." No proposal could be fairer; and so desirous was he to aid their appeal, that he wished the inquiry to be full, free, and untrammelled. But the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down commenced his speech with the startling announcement that the Committee was to be composed of officials. The question being one between the House of Commons and the Department charged with official misconduct in having tried to carry on its functions without giving to the House that information which it had a right to expect, the right hon. Gentleman proposed to try the guilt or innocence of the Department by a Committee of the nature referred to. He could imagine nothing more pleasant than a coterie of officials, assembled for the purpose of inquiring whether officials were to be blamed. The terms of reference, however, were even more important than the constitution of the Committee. If it tinned out that no offence had been committed, the terms the Government proposed were ample. But suppose the Committee found that an offence had been committed, they would want to know, not merely the crime, but the culprit, and thus it would become necessary to inquire into the constitution of the Department. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Lowe) gave an explanation of his conduct the other night which, as far as he was
 390 "The premises and fittings are good; but an infants' school-room would be a great improvement. The discipline is good, and the instruction, though not very forward, is accurate and appropriate, as tar as it goes, and as advanced as can be expected, considering how recently the present teachers have been in charge." 391
 LORD ROBERT CECIL : I beg to move I that the words of the hon. Gentleman be taken down.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL : I have not retracted them.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL : The statement of the hon. Gentleman is so strong that I may be permitted to explain. My Motion was couched against the Committee of Privy Council. As regards the; Committee of Privy Council, I retract not I one syllable, but as regards the right hon. I Gentleman, I believe the account he gives, and therefore the terms of the censure do not apply personally to him.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, that the case was not in his opinion one to be brought forward in  formâ pauperis
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he was sorry to have misunderstood the hon. Gentleman.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he took objection to the item for rents paid for public offices erected upon land belonging to the public. He might instance the Geological Museum in Jermyn Street, as an example, where a large amount of money had been expended in building upon land belonging to the public.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, that the explanation of the First Commissioner of Works only led to the question of why rent was not paid for the Treasury or for the parks.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he could not understand why a large sum was asked for the furniture of the Kensington Museum. He moved that the Vote be reduced by £3,000.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he was in hopes that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary to the Treasury would, on the Motion for going into Committee on the Civil Service Estimates, have condescended to make some statement to the House with reference to the large amount of those Estimates, explaining why some of them had increased and why others had not been greatly diminished. Those Estimates amounted to near £8,000,000. Complaints had constantly been made that they were brought before the House without being fully considered by the Government. He had placed upon the paper a notice for a Committee of Inquiry into the whole subject, but it was not until Tuesday that this Motion obtained such a position as gave it a chance of coming on, and then for some reason or other the House was counted out. It pleased the hon. Knight who represents Coventry to work out the purpose of the Government in getting rid of his Motion on that occasion. Now, considering the hon. Member represented a constituency in which there was a greater number of the working classes included than in any other in the kingdom, he was the more surprised at such a course, and it was a proof that the fear of such bodies of electors were not likely, more than others, in influencing their representatives to do their duty as a check on extravagant expenditure. He wished to draw attention to the great increase that had taken place in those Estimates during the ten years from 1854 to 1864. During that time they had increased nearly £3,000,000, or more exactly £2,702,000. No doubt it was said that that increase was more apparent than real, because a variety of charges had been transferred to them which were formerly paid direct from the Consolidated Fund, but, taking both payments made from the Consolidated Fund and through Estimates, the actual increase was as he had stated. Taking first the payments which were made direct from the Consolidated Fund, the accounts stood thus:—
 
 
 Payments direct from Consolidated Fund as given in the Financial Accounts No. 1 to 7. 
 1854. 1864. 
 1. Civil List £399,822 £405,843 
 2. Annuities and Pensions 351,699 312,066 
 3. Salaries & Allowances 275,684 185,718 
 4. Diplomatic 148,918 169,777 
 6. Justice 1,097,205 685,334 
 6. Misc. Charges 226,065 213,440 
 Carry forward £2,500,529 £1,972,181 400 
 
 Brought forward £2,500,629 £1,972,181 
 Civil Services voted by Estimates £4,471,559 7,702,627 
 £6,972,088 £9,674,808 
 £6,972,088 
 Actual Increase in Ten Tears £2,702,720 
 Consolidated Fund Charges in 1854 £2,500,529 
 Do. in 1864. £1,972,181 
 Difference £ 528,348 
 Transferred from Consolidated Fund to Estimates above £1,100,100 401 402 403 404 employés On Financial Reform "The clerks in the commissariat are real clerks, not the sons of persons of the higher ranks, but of a humbler description. They are perfectly satisfied with what they receive, and do their work remarkably well…Those persons who are willing to work for a small remuneration have the greatest relish for work; and, therefore, giving low salaries will secure the filling of the low offices with the most efficient clerks." 405
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he had only named £3,000 in his Amendment as a round sum. He found by reference to the Estimates that the exact amount asked for fittings and furniture for the Department of Science and Art was £4,300, and he accordingly begged to substitute that amount in his Amendment.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he must press the right hon. Gentleman to accede to the classification of expenditure which had been suggested.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  admitted the soundness of the principle laid down by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, but it was not carried out in all the Departments.
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, that an inquiry had taken place, and this was followed by a court-martial. The inquiry was a private one, and the proceedings had not been published, nor had the result been communicated to the Government. With regard to the court-martial the Foreign Office had received from time to time a report of the proceedings, but they had not yet received any official account of the verdict. Of course the Consul at New York would have to communicate with Lord Lyons, but he presumed that the Government would shortly receive official records of the whole trial. He should then be able to inform the hon. Gentleman whether the papers were such as could be laid upon the table.
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, that within the last two or three days, the Government had been officially informed that the Emperor of Brazil had accepted the mediation of the King of Portugal. It would be improper, and indeed, impossible, for him (Mr. Layard) to say what the exact terms of the mediation were, or how the relations between the two countries were to be restored; therefore he could not answer the first part of the Question. As all communication between the two Governments had for some time past been suspended, the Government had received no official account of the occurrence to which the second part of the hon. Gentleman's Question alluded.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that the Return moved for by the hon. Member for Berkshire (Mr. Walter) would render the first part of his (Mr. Adderley's) question unnecessary; but he wished to ask, Whether
 366
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he did not understand that the debate in progress had any personal reference, and he thought that if the right hon. Gentleman who represented the Government had only seen the question in its true light, he would not have objected to the Amendment. If the previous debate was a per-
 395 396 397 398
 MAJOR CUMMING BRUCE  said, that Mr. Herbert was in the room when he saw his great picture, and, pointing to the other end of the apartment, he remarked that his ambition was to cover it with a Representation of Our Lord delivering a Sermon on the Mount. Certainly that did not indicate that he would be influenced in any way whatever by the amount of his remuneration.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether, in the mediation with Brazil, care will be taken to secure some redress for Mr. Reeves, a British subject, who has been deprived of a large sum of money in a lawsuit with a Brazilian; whether Her Majesty's Government have received information from the British Consul of Rio of the recent dismissal of seven of the Judges of the same tribunals for corruption, not connected with Mr. Reeves's case; and whether any step has yet been taken to punish the Under Secretary of the Brazilian Ministry of Justice, who wrote letters to the Judges asking them to vote against the Englishman, Mr. Reeves, and of whose conduct complaints were made by the British Minister, by order of Earl Russell?
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, he wished to know whether the ground rents of Regent's Park were reckoned in the item relating to that Park, or carried to the public account?
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, he thought it better to make the alteration at once than to wait for another year, when, the matter might be forgotten.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  complained that while £11,000 was asked for rates and taxes for public buildings in Westminster and London, the Government refused to pay not only poor rates, but rates for drainage and sewerage for their large establishments at Deptford. In some places Government paid those rates, in others they rejected all claims for them. The practice showed such a want of principle as to require some explanation.
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, he must protest against the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer that certain hon. Members had treated the late Mr. Dyce with unfairness. He had no wish: to cast a slur upon the memory of Mr. Dyce, but he could not forget that fourteen years ago Mr. Dyce undertook to paint certain frescoes, and that in 1857, though he had received the whole amount, the frescoes were not done. On more than one occasion the First Commissioner had admitted that Mr. Dyce was in the wrong, and though no one would propose that any money should be claimed from the representatives of Mr. Dyce, hon. Members were not to be blamed for calling attention to the fact that a certain contract had not been fulfilled. He cordially concurred in all the eulogiums which had been passed upon the great work of Mr. Herbert, and he had the authority of that gentleman for saying that unless he received something like £5,000 he would never again put his brush upon the walls of the Houses of Parliament. [ Cries of
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, he would not press his Motion provided the right hon. Gentleman would see the suggestion carried out—that all persons on horseback and in private carriages should be allowed to pass through the gate in return for the use of it by Mr. Prescott.
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, the right hon. Gentleman might shut up the gate. If be would engage to shut up the gate, unless Mr. Prescott opened the road, he would not divide the Committee.
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, it appeared that a private road, by which the public had been admitted to Richmond Park through Roehampton Gate, had recently been purchased by a gentleman named Prescott, and closed by him against the public, so that Roehampton Gate was only of use to that gentleman, his family, and friends. He did not see that the public should be put to the expense of keeping up the gate solely for the use of that gentleman, who would not give the public in return the use of the road, and he moved that the Vote be reduced by £50, which would be about the expenditure connected with the gate.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, with reference to the Instructions to the Police as to Public Meetings in the Parks, Whether he considers such Instructions justify the suppression of Public Meetings other than such as may be held on a Sunday?
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he wished to know from the right hon. and learned Gentleman the date of the letter from which he derived his information, because he (Mr. Bright) had seen in the papers of that
 363
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that the discussion had proceeded as if some blame ought to be cast upon the Government in the matter, but he suspected that the right hon. Gentleman below (Mr. Gladstone) and his Colleagues agreed in the main with the hon. Member for Galway. Evidently his views as to the justice of the case met with the approval of the Committee. With respect to the measure of that justice, he (Mr. Bright) did not pretend to know a great deal about art; but when he went into the room containing that great picture he felt that he had not known until then that there was a painter in this country who could execute a work of art such as that. That, he believed, was the impression produced by it on the minds of a large number more competent than himself to judge. He was not in favour
 429 430
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he thought that the hon. Member for Taunton must have misunderstood Mr. Herbert. That gentleman might have said that, with such payment as he had hitherto received, he could not, with a due regard to those who depended upon him, continue the great sacrifices he had made while producing the wonderful work which struck all beholders with delight and admiration.
 MR. J. C. EWART  said, he wished to ask the Paymaster General, When the distribution of the Parliamentary Grant to the Troops concerned in the Kertch Expedition will take place?
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : I am much obliged to the hon. Gentleman for throwing his shield over the noble Lord; but the House will remember that the attack was made personally against the Vice President of the Committee of Privy Council. What happened? Why, these precious charges by these disloyal servants—and I suppose I cannot be called to order for that—these charges, by disloyal, discontented Inspectors, were embodied in a Resolution, and were carried through this House, and the little account was closed before dinner. The Motion was carried to a division at the unpropitious hour when the propen-
 394 onus
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : O yes, it is all very well for the noble Lord to say that now; but I am sure the House will agree with me that, although his Resolution was pointed against the Committee of Privy Council, the speech was expressly directed against the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Then you ought to have retracted them. If I have understood the noble Lord, lie has retracted them to-night, for he said he had every confidence in the honour of my right hon. Friend.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : I repeat—false and calumnious charges. The noble Lord has retracted those charges to-night.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : There is some danger of our losing sight of the real question before us. However I might be inclined to agree to the Amendment of the right hon. Member for Droitwich—and assuredly a system that in the year 1839 cost £30,000, and in 1864 has
 392 393 Cries of
 MR. MALINS  said, he had been requested to call attention to the inconvenience caused in these days of late dinners by the closing so early as ten o'clock of the communication between the north and south sides of Hyde Park, which obliged persons wishing to go from Westbournia to Kensington to drive round by Park Lane.
 MR. MALINS  said, he was also convinced that there must he a mistake. He had seen the picture Mr. Herbert was working at, and whatever he might do with regard to any other work of art, he did not think Mr. Herbert meant the remark to apply to the work he was then engaged upon, but it applied to any other work of art which he might be asked to execute.
 MR. LONGFIELD : I rise to Order. The hon. Gentleman is alluding to a speech made in a former debate, which is highly irregular.
 MR. SCULLY  said, he wished to know, from either the right hon. Gentleman the First Commissioner of Works, or the hon. Gentleman the Member for Lambeth, whether Battersea Park had made the Return for the expenditure devoted to it which was so confidently anticipated some years ago. He regarded the case of Battersea Park as an example of the principle which lad been adopted of levying taxes throughout the United Kingdom for the benefit of London alone. The amount spent upon Ireland or the provinces was very small indeed. The most serious complaint that had been made that evening was that made by an hon. Member with reference to Rotten Row, where it was said that no defence or shelter was provided for those anonymous individuals. He did not know that there was any necessity for spending more money upon conveniences for pretty horsebreakers, as he believed we were going quite fast enough without that.
 MR. SCULLY  said, he would apologize if he had misrepresented the hon. Baronet, but he believed he had literally interpreted what had fallen from him. The hon. Baronet did not name the unfortunate individuals, and he therefore concluded that they were anonymous. There was an Estimate of £594 for extending the horse ride in Battersea Park, and a little further down the hon. Baronet would find an item of £62 for public conveniences. He saw that there was included among the accounts an estimated expenditure of £1,051 upon Longford River. He did not know where Longford River was, nor had he been able to discover its locality. He knew a county of that name, however, in Ireland, but he did not believe that the sum was intended for the benefit of any place in that neighbourhood. They would see that the income they derived from the parks and pleasure gardens amounted to £3,527, while the expenditure upon them was £97,952, so that they were really in receipt of about 3½ per cent for their money. He could not understand how so much as £20,000 could be expended on Kew Gardens. But it was of no use to move a reduction, and, therefore, he would not attempt to obtain any. He despaired of having these enormous Votes for parks and horse rides and such trumpery cut
 421
 MR. SCULLY  said, that Battersea Park was of no more use to the constituents of the hon. Member for Lambeth than it was to the inhabitants of the County Cork, and if so it had better be shut up altogether. He thought that £1,600 was a large sum to pay for keeping up a park and for shutting out the children and giving playgrounds to the sheep there; and he had little doubt that if the hon. Member (Mr. W. Williams) were made head ranger he would keep the park in good order and save £1,400 a year.
 MR. SCULLY  said, he thought that the hon. Member for Truro had hardly been fairly treated. He had done good service by calling the attention of the House to these details, and if it had not been for him the House would have been dispersed. At one time there were only twenty Members in the House, there were six in the lobbies, six in the tea-room, six in the library, and thirty-nine in the dining-room, He did not blame those hon. Members for being out of the House, because they knew that if they had been present they could have done no good, that all the nibbling and cheeseparing in the world would never reduce the Estimates below the amount at which the Government chose to fix them. The late hon. Member for Montrose and the hon. Member for Lambeth, who at one time was called a "continuation of Hume," had gone through the same process that the hon. Member for Truro was now being subjected to, and the experience of that hon. Member had led him to confine his speech that evening to a period of only about two minutes. The people of Ireland were more interested in the matter than were those of England, because of all the taxation which was taken from Ireland none flowed back to that country, except the small amounts expended for English purposes, such as the payment of an English Lord Lieutenant, who could be made of no use here, and a Chief Secretary, who was the most mischievous man in the country. The only Irish purpose for which money was expended was the payment of the Judges. The stream of taxation was poured out to enrich England alone, and that was the reason why English Members were so indifferent to the enormous
 410
 MR. SCULLY  said, there was a positive increase of £3,800 on the Vote for the present year, and asked for an explanation.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that in reply to the hon. Member for Lambeth, he had to state that it would not be possible for him to undertake to present on an early day in each Session an account of the state of the unexpended balances in the Civil Service Estimates.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he hoped his right hon. Friend would not be asked to enter into a specific engagement. Mr. Prescott was, no doubt, a gentleman of intelligence and sagacity, and would understand what the feeling of Parliament was upon the subject. The existing state of things was certainly one which ought not to continue.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would express a hope that the hon. Member for Truro would not divide the Committee upon the Vote. The principle of his Motion would go much further than the Motion itself. No doubt it was desirable, and it would be very convenient, that the figures should be so arranged as that they might see at a glance the expense of each public Department with regard to furniture, fittings, &c.; but to do that they must depart from the principle which they had very largely adopted, and which they regarded as a general rule in the arrangement of the Estimates, namely: —That every article required by a Department should be furnished in the most economical manner possible. They could not recognize the two principles together. To get the articles at the cheapest rate it was desirable that they should be furnished by the Board of Works, because they had dealings with the tradesmen who had to supply them, and were accustomed to make the necessary contracts. It would be far less economical than at present were the dif-
 418
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, there were a number of considerations connected with the matter which placed Her Majesty's Government in a position of considerable difficulty. He entirely shared in the feelings which hon. Gentlemen had expressed—as far as he might presume to have an opinion on the subject—with regard both to the character of the particular work of art under discussion and to the character of Mr.
 431 432
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought the hon. Gentleman must be labouring under some mistake; it was impossible that Mr. Herbert could have said that unless he received £5,000 he would never again lay his brush to the walls of the Houses of Parliament.
 MR. BUCHANAN  asked whether there was any intention of finishing the portion of Hew Gardens nearest to Richmond?
 MR. COX  said, that the Vote contained items of £6,846 for Battersea Park, £1,584 for Kennington Park, £9,964 for Regent's Park, and £5,934 for Victoria Park. A petition had been lately presented complaining that a certain portion of Battersea Park had been handed over to the Civil Service Cricket Club for their exclusive use. He was informed that the club consisted of 230 members, and that 19,000 square yards of ground had been set apart for them. Another portion of ground of about 18,000 square yards was allotted to 14 other clubs, consisting of 600 or 700 members. A third portion, which was of no use whatever, was given to the general public for cricket. He wished to ask whether similar arrangements had been made for playing at cricket in Regent's Park and Victoria Park, and whether the First Commissioner of Works had selected any portion of those parks for the exclusive use of any other servants of the Crown. He had another question to ask in regard to Kennington Park. It was an inclosure not much larger than Lincoln's Inn Fields, comprising about 15 or 16 acres of ground. Every year between £1,500 and £1,600
 419
 MR. COX  maintained that Kennington Common was not appropriated to the purpose for which it was intended—the recreation of the people and the benefit of the neighbourhood in which it was situated. Formerly, hundreds of children might be seen playing there and rejoicing in the fresh air. But now, if the hon. Member for Lambeth went to Kennington Park some hot day in July, he would see poor children running about on the hot gravel while the sheep engrossed the green grass.
 MR. COX  observed, that the right hon. Gentleman had not given an explanation about the arrangements in the Regent's and Victoria Parks.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education, Whether any instructions have been issued by the Committee demanding sixty attendances from night scholars before examination for Capitation Grant, instead of twenty-four attendances, the number fixed in Article 40 of the Revised Code?
 MR. GREGORY  complained of the manner in which the Estimates were compiled with reference to the Votes for furniture. It was the practice with regard to the Irish Industrial Museum, because it was out of favour with the Government ant very popular with the people of Ireland,
 416
 MR. GREGORY  said, he wished the Vote had come on at an early sitting, that he might have asked hon. Members to pay a visit to the Peers' robing-room, in order to examine and judge for themselves of: what he might call one of the most noble specimens of modern art, and when he told them on their return that the painter; of that great picture had been employed on it for six years and eight months at a remuneration not exceeding £500 a year he would have asked them had he been adequately remunerated? It was said i that Mr. Herbert, having entered into a contract, must be bound by it; but what were the facts of this case? According to the original estimate the work was to be done in fresco, which being rapidly executed Mr. Herbert calculated he would be adequately remunerated by the payment of £2,000 for each picture, because it would not occupy him more than twenty months. But the state of the frescoes. in that House had attracted the atten-
 426 427 428
 MR. GREGORY  said, he cordially concurred in the suggestions of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Such questions ought, as far as possible, to be transferred from the House of Commons to a more competent tribunal. He also admitted that it would be invidious to deal specially with Mr. Herbert's case, when other gentlemen had similar claims on their consideration. He was unwilling to raise a squabble over the grave of a great artist, and should, therefore, pass over the Chancellor of the Exchequer's remarks on another topic, merely saying that he did not use stronger language regarding it than the First Commissioner of "Works. He did not base Mr. Herbert's claim on the fact that he had a large family; he mentioned that circumstance only to show that Mr. Herbert could not afford to make those sacrifices for the sake of art, which his generous enthusiasm would otherwise doubtless lead him to do.
 COLONEL W. STUART  asked for an. explanation of an item of £42 on account of the formation of a road near Holyhead.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, the hon. Member for Truro deserved credit for the great trouble he had taken in examining an important subject, and in calling attention to the continual progressive increase of expenditure year alter year. That was a most melancholy fact and deserved consideration. As long as the Estimates remained at their present excessive figure, the country must be content to bear the heavy burdens now imposed. The first step to a reduction of taxation was, of course, a reduction of expenditure.
 MR. TITE : I have no right to answer for the Metropolitan Board of Works, or to speak authoritatively; but I am a member of the Board, and I can say that the matter has been under consideration. A good many local difficulties exist, but I hope in a short time we shall be able to overcome them. All I can say is that it is a subject of grave consideration, and we will do our best to remove the obstructions complained of.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he had no desire to make any observations in reference to palaces occupied by the Royal family; but he believed that no member of; the Royal family resided in Kensington Palace, and that the only person there was a very old lady, and he, therefore, wished to know how the £1,237 set down for it was expended. For Bushey Park House the sum of £1,319 was asked, and he, wished to ask who it was who occupied: that building. There was also an item for; repairing and cleansing the fittings in the Chapel Royal, St. James's, but he believed that Her Majesty never attended that chapel.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to call attention to a sum of £9,933 for repairs of ecclesiastical and collegiate buildings, &c., in Scotland. There were sums set down for maintenance and repairs of the old Scotch cathedrals, which were no longer of any use.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he would suggest to the Chancellor of the Exchequer that it would be a great convenience as well as a source of important information to the House if a Return were presented to the House, showing the amount of the Votes which remained unexpended at the end of every year.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he desired to remind the Committee that Battersea Park was purchased with the public money, and that it was, therefore, the property of the public. If any portion of it had been devoted to the exclusive use of the Civil Service, such appropriation was, on that account, clearly unwarrantable. The expenditure on the parks was much heavier than it ought to be. It was an annual burden, and he believed that it would be difficult to show how so large a sum could be profitably expended.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  thought it was not worth while to divide on the Vote. He thought the Vote was in its proper place.
 SIR EDWAED DERING  said, the public in general owed great obligations to the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Commissioner for the improvements which he had made in the parks. There was, however, a class of persons whose good opinion no doubt he would wish to conciliate, and whose requirements had been overlooked, and who had a paramount claim upon his attention—he meant the ladies who rode in Rotten Row, and who had at present not the slightest shelter or protection from the inclemency of the weather. After a smart shower the ride had to be given up, or the unfortunate individuals were obliged to ride in their wet clothes, which no doubt caused much discomfort and inconvenience. The question was whether it would not be very easy to adopt a remedy for all this inconvenience. If the right hon. Gentleman would only adopt the precedent in the Bois de Boulogne, in various parts of which were scattered about shelter sheds, simple in construction and inexpensive, he would afford shelter both for riders and pedestrians, and at the same time not encroach on the rights of the people. There was, he believed, a central and convenient spot where these shelter sheds might be placed. The House should
 420
 SIR EDWARD DERING  said, the hon. Member was misrepresenting what he had said.
 MR. F. S. POWELL  asked, whether the Vote for furniture at South Kensington was to be regarded as an annually recurring charge, or one of an exceptional nature consequent on the extensive alterations which had been recently sanctioned by Parliament?
 MR. F. S. POWELL  said, he believed that the work of Mr. Herbert embraced in itself all that there was in ancient art of grandeur, dignity, and elevation of conception, with a delicacy of detail, and a precision and accuracy of execution which could not be surpassed by the most distinguished modern painter. He therefore cordially concurred in the suggestion which had been thrown out for an increased remuneration. The country had at length obtained a picture which would hand down to posterity a noble monument of what it could achieve in the way of art; let it not become evidence against it of shabbiness and parsimony.
 MR. F. S. POWELL  said, it would conduce to the comfort of many persons if more seats were placed in the parks, and if the seats had backs. [An hon. MEMBER: Bath chairs.] No, not Bath chairs; but chairs with backs.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, that the case of Mr. Herbert did not stand upon the same grounds as those of the other artists.: Finding that the process which he had at first adopted was not calculated to preserve the pictures, he had destroyed 400 feet of; painting in order to adopt another and a better process. There was this peculiar circumstance with reference to Mr. Herbert—that his work was to be regarded as  hors de lyne
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he wished to know whether the grating in front of the Ladies' Gallery could not be removed. If it were removed the ladies would have some fresh air, and he was sure Gentlemen would not be sorry to see them.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I am not the representative of the Metropolitan Board of Works. I would suggest that the hon. and gallant Member put his Question to the hon. Member for Bath (Mr. Tite).
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I do not think, Sir, that the letter of the Instructions issued to the Police authorizes them, I without having recourse to the Commis-
 367
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I still think the subjects of inquiry proposed by the Motion and the Amendment respectively aught to be kept wholly separate and distinct. The right hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich said he was quite ready to agree that the Committee should in the first instance, and before entering on the general inquiry, report on the specific charges, the subject of the inquiry which the Government propose; but the noble Lord the Member for Stamford (Lord R. Cecil) repudiates any such proceeding, and says the specific is mixed up with the general inquiry, and it would be impossible to come to a conclusion on the former without going into the latter. On that point I entirely differ from the noble Lord. I think that the specific is quite distinct from the general inquiry, and that the two ought not to be mixed up together. They ought to be kept altogether distinct, and to be referred—if they are to be made the subjects of inquiry—to distinct Committees. My hon. Friend the Member for Liskeard (Mr. Osborne) seems to think that we are acting unfairly towards my right hon. Friend the Member for Calne. Nothing would grieve me more than to think so. My right hon. Friend thought that the Resolution of the 12th April made personal allusion to him; he has since perfectly exonerated himself from every personal charge; and certainly I was under the impression that in taking the course we have taken we were acting with the consent and approval of my right hon. Friend.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he regretted to inform the House that his noble Friend at the head of the Government was unable to attend that evening to make the Motion of which he had given notice on the subject of the Inspectors' Reports. In his absence he would, with the permission of the House, move that the Orders of the day be postponed till after the notice of Motion relative to the Inspectors' Reports.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  moved that the Resolution passed by the House on the
 369
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, I moved that the Resolution of the 12th of April, adopted by this House, be read, in order that it may appear on our records that the Motion which I am now about to make has a direct and an immediate reference to that Resolution. That Resolution asserts, or rather assumes, as a matter of fact, that the Reports of Her Majesty's Inspectors of Schools have been mutilated, and that they have been mutilated with the distinct object of withholding from the House the opinions of those Inspectors when they were adverse to the views entertained by the Committee of Council on Education, and of presenting them to the House when they were favourable to those views. A graver charge than that could hardly be made against any Department of a Government. It is true that, at the time, that charge was met by a clear and emphatic denial on the part of my right hon. Friend the Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe); but the House, acting, as we believe, under a misapprehension of the real facts of the case, and influenced to a certain extent by information which was in the possession of some hon. Members of the House, though not in the possession of the House itself, nor in the knowledge of Her Majesty's Government, adopted the condemnatory Resolution. We further believe that if the information to which I allude had been in the hands of my right hon. Friend at the time, it was capable of and would have received a satisfactory explanation that would have deprived it of the weight which, without that explanation, was attached to it. My right hon. Friend subsequently made a statement to this House which I believe was entirely satisfactory. As for his personal honour, no one can doubt that it has been fully vindicated; but the matter rests in this position. There remains on our records, and there will be inserted on the Journals
 370 371
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  observed, that there had been a general and silent increase in these Estimates from year to year. He wished to have some explanation of an apparent excess of £12,696 spent beyond the sum voted for 1862–3
 SIR. HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, that at present only a few branches of the Civil Service expenditure were subject to the appropriation audit; but it was very desirable that the same check should be extended to the whole Estimates. He wished to know whether the Treasury had taken any steps with that object? The measure had been strongly urged by the Public Monies Committee. He did not quite agree with his hon. Friend the Member for Truro, as to the existing machinery being imperfect. In his opinion, however, the Audit Board and some other Departments had a tendency to fail for want of a clear and definite system of action; and the House would do well to give them more power and support. Even as it was, the Audit Board did good service. He believed, also, that the Office of Woods and Forests might be rendered more useful if it had fair play. That Department, and also the Ordnance, ought to be properly represented in the House. Hon. Members ought to try to improve the machinery now in operation, and not to discredit it. He would refrain from touching on the various questions raised by his hon. Friend, as they would be more properly discussed in Committee.
 MR. CAIRD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether his attention has been called to the riotous proceedings lately enacted in Edinburgh, arising out of the seizure and sale of the furniture of certain citizens who refuse to pay that portion of the local rates which, under the name of Police Rate, is (under an Act passed in 1860) levied to pay the stipends of the city clergy; whether it is true that several thousand ratepayers have resolutely refused to pay that portion of the rate, and that the arrears of the several local rates collected along with this rate are accumulating so rapidly as to have reached nearly £20,000; and, whether it is the intention of Government to propose any alteration in the Law?
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of;" State for Foreign Affairs, Whether he has received the Report of the Court of Inquiry held on Acting Master Danenhowen or Donovan of the United States ship  Vanderbilt Saxon
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, before I proceed to offer an explanation of the reasons which induce me to move for a very considerable extension of the limits of the inquiry which has just been moved for by the right hon. Baronet, there are one or two points to which I am desirous of being allowed to refer, in order to prevent any misunderstanding of my Motion. In the first place, I wish to state that I have no intention in the Motion I am about to make to embarrass or impede the inquiry for which the right hon. Gentleman has moved. There are many Members in this House, and I am one of them, who
 372 373 374 "When that Committee (of Education) was appointed he did not think that any better means could be adopted for managing the Educational Votes than by intrusting the control of them to a council of several Ministers; but circumstances had since changed, and he thought it would be for the benefit of the public service if the President of the Committee of Council were to be acknowledged as the Minister of Education, and that the Department of Education should be represented in that House by a person who might, perhaps, hold the rank of a Privy Councillor, and who might be able to defend any measure that might be adopted." [3  Hansard 375 "But if the time had arrived for charging a responsible Minister with the duties of instruction, it appeared to him well worthy of consideration whether it would not be well to supersede the Privy Council altogether in this matter, and to have a Minister at the head of a Department, who should have no other duties to perform, and who should be, in fact, responsible for the education of the people." [3  Hansard "If they wished to have a department well conducted, they should rather place it in the hands of one than of two Ministers, however able; and he certainly did hope that this Bill was intended to delegate all the duties connected with education substantially to the one officer who was to represent the Board in the House of Commons. It was quite enough work for one man, and that work never would be well done till it was confided to one man only." [ Ibid "He concurred in the opinion, that it would be better to dissociate the Presidency of Council from the superintendence of the Educational Department." [ Ibid "He rejoiced that Government had at last dealt with this important question; he could not, however, approve of the proposed plan. A Board or Committee of Education, as appointed under the old system, was in principle and constitution one of the worst modes of administration." [ Ibid "As far as he could discover, these Boards were liable to be really represented by subordinate persons, all true responsibility being lost; and, however desirous the Board might be of discharging its duty, wrong measures would be adopted and carried into effect, from the nature of which it would be apparent that the Board was not represented by the nominal head of the Department, but by its subordinate officers." [ Ibid 376 "They had some analogous institutions to which they might refer. The Board of Trade was one of them. He did not, however, hesitate to say that the constitution of that Department was a bad constitution. Instead of being a Department with a regular organization and one responsible head, and the other members bearing a defined relation in subordination to him, they had two parties, cheek by jowl—a President and a Vice President, of equal official rank, the Vice President being, in fact, the more important man of the two, especially if he happened to sit in that House while the President sat in the House of Lords." [3  Hansard "The noble Lord did me too much honour in attributing to me the undivided management and responsibility of what he calls the Educational revolution that has taken place during the last three years. I am but the humble instrument of much higher authorities, and all these changes have been submitted to the Educational Committee, composed of the highest officers of the State, under whose directions I have to act. I should be tempted to take to myself—if I were worthy of it—all the responsibility and the blame for what has been done…It matters very little to the House what my opinions on this subject may be, but I can assure it that in what I have had to do with regard to education I have
 377 Hansard 378 A laugh 379 380 381 382
 SIR JOSEPH PAXTON  said, that the hon. Gentleman had alluded to him personally, as he happened to be the unfortunate wight who had interposed between him and the House on the previous Tuesday. The hon. Member had intended to deliver then the speech he had addressed to the House that night, but as on Tuesday there were only thirteen Members present, and he thought the hon. Gentleman's observations could be made with more effect and propriety on the Motion for going into Committee of Supply, he had called the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to the state of the House. That evening the hon. Gentleman had spoken for an hour and a half, but he had not been able to secure a much larger audience, for during the greater part of his speech not more than twenty Members were in the House. As, however, the Estimates were before the House, he did not venture what he would have otherwise been inclined to do—to try a count. He would not anticipate the answer of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of the Treasury, but the field over which the hon. Gentleman had travelled was so large, and his opinions so decided, that one could not help suspecting he deemed himself quite
 406
 SIR JOSEPH PAXTON  said, that in laying out Battersea Park it could never have been contemplated that a toll bridge should be erected between it and the public; and if the building ground around it was to be let to advantage Battersea Bridge must be thrown open. He must say that the expenditure on the parks was rather extravagant. Ten years ago the Vote asked for was about £60,000, and now it was very nearly £100,000. He thought too much
 422
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he believed, from the experience he had had in these matters, that the sum which had been named was not one half of the price which that painting would fetch to-morrow if taken to Christie's for sale. Mr. Herbert had refused many commissions simply on account of his devotion to that picture, and he considered that both Mr. Herbert and Mr. Maclise were entitled to the greatest consideration on the part of the Committee.
 SIR WILLIAM FRASER  said, he thought the hon. Gentleman had extended his economical views beyond their legitimate bounds. No one had seen the Scotch cathedrals without feeling that they contained some of the most beautiful specimens of architecture, not only that the three kingdoms, but that the world possessed, while the sums asked for their preservation were but small. He was sure the Committee would not agree with the paring-down spirit of the hon. Gentleman. He was happy to see that something was going to be done at last about that very valuable possession of the Crown — Burlington House. Some twelve years
 413
 MR. HUTT  said, in reply, that in a few days the Commissioners of Chelsea Hospi-
 365
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that it was intended to continue the manufacture of the three-grooved service Enfield Rifle until it had been decided by the Secretary of State what weapon was to be employed in the service for the future. He had said last year, as well as the other day, that immediately after the Report of the Committee on Small Arms had been received it had been decided to reduce the manufacture of the Enfield to the lowest possible limit consistent with the supply rendered necessary from the wear and tear of the weapons now in use. From the 1st of April, 1863,
 457
 COLONEL KNOX  said, he would beg to ask the noble Lord, Whether it is the intention of the Government to adapt the breech-loading system to the Enfield Rifle?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that 2,000 breech-loaders had been ordered for trial in different parts of the world, but no experiment would be tried as to the feasibility of adapting the breech-loading system to the service Enfields until reports had been received as to the value of a breech-loading arm as a military weapon.
 MR. PEEL  said, in reply, that the Petition of these officers had been received, and had met with the careful consideration of the Treasury. He hoped the answer of the Commissioners would be sent in in the. course of two or three days.
 MR. CLIFFORD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether his attention has been called to the large discharge of gas tar refuse into the River Thames; and whether he will set the law in motion to abate a nuisance so prejudicial to the health of the metropolis?
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, When the second instalment of the Delhi Prize Money is likely to be paid in England, it having been paid in India so far back as November last?
 MR. T. BARING : I rise to call attention to the circumstances under which the  Georgia Japan Virginia Georgia Allar Georgia Allar Georgia Allar Georgia 468 Georgia Georgia Dictator Griswold Georgia Georgia Georgia Georgia Georgia 469 470 Alabama "First of all, the English Government must decide on the best information at their disposal, whether she was or was not unlawfully equipped in this country in breach of our neutrality. Their decision on this point ought to be final, for they are the sole judges of it, and the Federal authorities may inform their judgment, but cannot question their determination. If the English Government determine that the  Alabama "Now, it is a sound and salutary rule of international practice, established by the Americans themselves in 1791, that vessels which have been equipped in violation of the laws of a neutral. State shall be excluded from that hospitality: which is extended to other belligerent cruisers, on whose origin there is no such taint. Accordingly, the Cabinet of Washington compelled all the French privateers which had been illegally fitted out in America against England to leave the ports of the United States, and orders were issued to the Custom House officers to prevent their return. This course of proceeding appears equally consonant to the principles of law and the dictates of policy. The question then remains—Was the  Alabama Alabama Oreto Florida Alabama 471 Alabama Georgia Georgia 472 Alabama 473 474
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : Sir, with many things which have been said by my hon. Friend in the course of his able and temperate speech I entirely agree. No one who has observed the conduct which the Government have endeavoured to pursue with regard to this
 475 476 Oreto Florida Alabama Georgia 477 Alexandra Pampero 478 Pampero 479 Georgia Georgia Georgia 480 481 Santissima Trinidad "In general, the commission of a public ship, signed by the proper authorities of the nation to which she belongs, is complete proof of her national character. A bill of sale is not necessary to be produced, nor will the courts of a foreign country inquire into the means by which the title to property has been acquired. It would be to exert the right of examining into the validity of the acts of the foreign Sovereign, and to sit in judgment upon them in cases where he has not conceded the jurisdiction, and where it would be inconsistent with his own supremacy. The commission, therefore, of a public ship, when duly
 482 Independencia Cassius Georgia Santissima Trinidad Cassius 483 Amistad de la Rues Alabama "When called upon by either of the belligerents to act in such cases, all that justice seems to require is, that the neutral nation should fairly execute its own laws, and give no asylum to the property unjustly captured. It is bound, therefore, to restore the property if found within its own ports; but, beyond this, it is not obliged to interfere between the belligerents." 484 Georgia 485 Santissima Trinidad "In a case of the description of that before the Court, where the sovereignty and rights of a foreign belligerent nation are in question, and where the exercise of jurisdiction over captures made under its flag can be justified only by clear proof of the violation of our neutrality, there are still stronger reasons for abstaining from interference, if the testimony is clouded with doubt and suspicion. We adhere to the rule which has been already adopted by this Court, that restitution ought not to be decreed upon the ground of capture in violation of our neutrality, unless the fact be established beyond all reasonable doubts." 486 Kearsarge Kearsarge 487 488 Alabama Alabama
 LORD ELCHO  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether the War Department intend to spend the Money recently voted by Parliament for Small Arms in the continued manufacture of the three-grooved service Enfield Rifle, of which upwards of 100,000 have been made since it was reported by the Ordnance Select Committee, on the 26th November, 1862, as being inferior to the oval-bore Rifle, "1stly, as regards precision when clean; 2ndly, as regards precision when foul; 3rdly, as regards non-tendency to accumulate fouling; and 4thly, as regards simplicity of management;" whether there is any reason to doubt the general correctness of the statement made by the Ordnance Select Committee that the oval-bore Rifle might be adopted into the service "without necessitating any increase to the present cost of supply;" whether it is the case that the oval-bore Rifle has been for many years one of the pattern arms of the service, and is the weapon with which the Engineers of the Regular and Volunteer Forces are now armed; and whether it is the intention of the War Department to institute further competitive trials of large or small-bore, muzzle, or breech-loading Rifles; whether pending the result of such trials, supposing them to he instituted, the manufacture of the three-grooved Enfield Rifle will be continued, and within what period of time it may reasonably be anticipated that a decision will be come to as to the pattern small arm to be adopted into the service for the future use of Her Majesty's Forces?
 LORD ROBERT CECIL : I hardly know whether I ought to address the House in answer to a statement so irregularly brought forward. The House has appointed a Committee to examine this Question, and it appears to me that it would be a far more convenient way for the right hon. Gentleman to have waited till he could have appeared before that Committee and made, in his own justification, the statement we have just heard. Part of the statement, as I understand it, consists of a contradiction of the allegation made by Mr. Morell; and I have only to say that Mr. Morell will, no doubt, be summoned before the Committee, when we shall have an opportunity of hearing him, and of judging as to whether, in stating what he does, he is stating what is true or not. The right hon. Gentleman has spoken as to the various kinds of Inspectors' Reports. I confess I have read over his former speech to-day, and my opinion is, that his words, naturally interpreted, seem to refer to all the Reports which the Inspectors make. He now tells us that the Committee of the Privy Council never, since the date to which he has referred, mutilated the general Reports of the Inspectors, but he appears to admit that the practice has prevailed with reference to the special or particular Reports. I regret that I did not draw the distinction, but I doubt whether the Committee of Council will feel very much obliged to the right hon. Gentleman for the distinction which
 466
 LORD ROBERT CECIL : The present hour and the present state of the House, do not invite discussion, but the speech we have just heard contained a fallacy which I cannot allow to pass without notice. The hon. Member for Rochdale has drawn a powerful picture of the evils to which England will be exposed in any war in which she may be engaged hereafter. I do not think he has exaggerated those evils, for I am afraid that, in the event of war, we must reckon upon seeing our mercantile marine harassed on the ocean by swarms of hostile privateers. But the point which the hon. Member seems to have overlooked, is the impossibility of our avoiding the evils in store for us, by any action we could take now. If by sending the  Alabama Georgia 506 507 508 Georgia Georgia 509 Georgia neutrality
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, there could be no doubt either as to the bias of the hon. Member's sympathies or the source of his inspiration. Instead of availing himself of the authentic sources of information in this country he had evidently gone for facts to the American papers laid on the table of Congress, and for arguments to the debates in their chambers. The hon. Member for Rochdale had proved conclusively that the trade of the Northern States had been considerably diminished; but he had failed to show how we had been the cause of the destruction of their commerce. His speech was like a bridge without a keystone. His facts and premises were established, but his conclusion was illogical. The hon. Gentleman had entirely omitted to show how we were responsible for the injury which American commerce had sustained since the war began. "Yes, I did," he says; "you admitted the vessels of the Southern States into your ports, and these damaged the commerce of the Northern's. He (Lord Robert Montagu) had thought that the Southern States were not yet ripe for recognition. But the hon. Member had shown that they not only had held their ground against the North, but had actually destroyed their commerce; and that, too, in the face of a navy which had come victorious out of many a battle, and prided itself upon being the strongest in the world. Not only had the Southern States manufactured a navy, but they had beaten the Federal ships which had long ridden the sea in triumph, so that the latter were now fain to avoid the conflict. How were we to blame for that? Should we have done anything to prevent the South from sending their ships to sea, or have refused to them that hospitality which our neutrality bound us to concede equally to both sides? The hon. Member had also drawn a ease which he had said was analogous, of a friend who was suspected of an act derogatory to his honour, although nothing had actually been proved against him, and had said that in such a case we should refuse to have any more dealings with our friend until he had succeeded in clearing his character. So, he said, we
 513 Florida Florida
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, What decision the Govern-
 459
 MR. LAYARD , in reply, said, he did not think it advisable to lay this despatch on the table. The House was aware that this document related not only to the policy of this country, but to that of the United States, France, and Russia, and he did not think it would be fair to other Powers to produce it.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  replied that he was sorry that he could not answer the Question. There had, no doubt, been considerable delay, arising from errors which had occurred in the first list. A despatch for the purpose correcting these errors had been sent out to India nearly two months ago.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he rose to call attention to the permission given by the Government to the Austrian Squadron to leave these shores, and to take up a position favourable for the further prosecution of hostilities against Denmark, without any practical check or supervision by means of the presence of a British Naval force. It would be in the recollection of the House, that in the beginning of the week a question was asked of the Government with reference to the Austrian Squadron which had passed up the Channel. The right hon. Gentleman, in answering the question, seemed somewhat to avoid the real question. He said that the vessel was not going to the Baltic, but he did not give the slightest intimation that she had gone to the North Sea. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman would not give the sanction of his example to such an evasive mode of answering questions.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, in reply, that the Government had not yet come to any decision on the subject. The answers to the Circular letter which had been sent to the Governors of Colonies had not yet been received.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If it is the fact that the Archbishop of Canterbury has the power to confer the title of Doctor of Medicine on persons who have not undergone an examination before the College of Physicians?
 COLONEL FRENCH : It was exercised in 1858.
 COLONEL FRENCH : I rise to Order, Sir. As long as a Member of this House confines himself to personal explanation, the House is willing to hear him, though he may not be strictly in order; but when an hon. Member goes beyond that, and attempts to cast a censure on other Members, I trust the House will not give its countenance to such a proceeding.
 MR. HUNT  said, in reply, that the law for preventing the discharge of gas water and other impurities into the Thames, such as it was contained in the Conservancy Act of 1807, had been put in force as far, he believed, as was possible or practicable. The Conservancy Board had been extremely vigilant, and had exerted themselves with vigour and effect. He was informed that the impurities of which his hon. Friend complained did not proceed from premises on the banks of the river, but rather from the creeks and canals to which the powers of the Conservancy Act did not extend. This was a great evil, but there was a Bill then under the consideration of Parliament dealing with this subject, and into that Bill a clause regulating this subject might, he thought, with advantage be introduced.
 MR. SHAW LEFEVRE  said, that the noble Lord, in admitting the novelty in war of such cases as the  Georgia Alabama Alabama, Georgia Florida 510 "It is of the highest importance to our national character, and indispensable to the morality of our citizens, that all violations of our neutrality should be prevented. No door should be left open for the evasion of our laws; no opportunity afforded to any who may be disposed to take advantage of it to compromise the interest and the honour of the nation. It is submitted, therefore, to the consideration of Congress, whether it may not be advisable to revise the laws with a view to this desirable result." 511 512
 MR. SPEAKER : Order!
 MR. HUBBARD  said, in the absence of his hon. Friend (Mr. Heygate), he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether, taking into account the vast increase of the trade and commerce of England in the last thirty years, he is of opinion that the arrangement of 1844, limiting the Bank of England to an issue of fourteen millions of Bank Notes, without a corresponding amount of gold, is now commensurate with the daily monetary requirements of the country?
 MR. COBDEN : I will only occupy the attention of the House for a very few minutes. I wish to say a word or two in reference to what has fallen from the Attorney General. Two questions have been brought under our notice by the statement of the hon. Gentleman who introduced this subject. The suggestions which he makes are, that we should alter our Foreign Enlistment Act, and that we should, in the exercise of the powers which it is conceded we possess, prevent vessels of the description referred to from entering our ports. With respect to altering our laws, the Attorney General has entered into a long argument to show that the law as it stands is effective for the purpose of preventing a breach of our neutrality, but I cannot imagine a more cruel joke than the hon. and learned Gentleman's speech must appear when it comes to be read at Washington. What is the fact? You have been carrying on hostilities from these shores against the people of the United States, and have been inflicting an amount of damage on that country greater than would be produced by many ordinary wars. It is estimated that the loss sustained by the
 497 498 
 
 In 1858 vessels 33 tonnage 12,684 
 In 1859 vessels 49 tonnage 21,308 
 In 1860 vessels 41 tonnage 13,638 
 In 1861 vessels 126 tonnage 71,673 
 In 1862 vessels 135 tonnage 64,578 
 In 1863 vessels 348 tonnage 252,579 499 Alabama 500 Alabama? Alabama 501 Florida? Alabama? Georgia? 502 Florida Opinion Nationals Florida corsaire Florida Florida Florida Alabama Georgia 503 en masse 504 Alabama 505
 MR. RICHARD LONG  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs will continue to preside at the Conference notwithstanding the exactions and oppressions alleged to have been perpetrated in Jutland by the orders of Marshal Wrangel; and whether Her Majesty's Government have protested, and will protest, against the commission of such outrages on non-combatants during the sittings of the Conference?
 MR. LOWE : Sir, I have to solicit for a few moments the indulgence of the House once more to make a short personal Explanation, and I need that indulgence very greatly, because I am quite aware that the case is one of the first impression, and I may appear, though I hope wrongly, to trespass too much on the indulgence of the House in what I am going to say. The fact is in the remembrance of the House that yesterday a document was produced of which I had no notice—a document of which I had no knowledge, a document of which it was impossible for me to give any satisfactory account to the House without searching the records of the Privy Council Office. On that
 463 464 "The discipline is good, and the instruction, though not very forward, is accurate and appropriate as far as it goes, and as advanced as can be expected, considering how recently the present teachers have been in charge." 465
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, in reply, that the Commission had not yet made any Report, but he hoped it might make its appearance in the course of the present year. With respect to the intention of the Government, he had to say that communications had passed between the French and English Governments upon this subject, and though at present nothing had been settled, the subject was still under consideration, and he believed it would be better to wait until the Report had appeared before the question was considered, whether any amendment in the Convention was desirable?
 THE CHANCELLOE OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said, the Question of the hon. Gentleman hardly admitted of an intelligent answer without a general statement on the subject of the currency. He might, however, refer to what he had stated a few days ago, that in his opinion
 461
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, When an answer will be given to the Petition of the Gaugers of Her Majesty's Customs, London, praying for redress of grievances?
 MR. W. E. FORSTER , said, that the strong sympathy which he felt with one of the parties in the American contest might have enabled him to obtain information which otherwise he could not have procured; but he should endeavour to treat the question before the House solely from an English point of view, and in an impartial manner. The instructions issued by the Admiralty with reference to the ships of either of the belligerents which might enter any of our ports were as follows:—
 "If any ship of war or privateer of either belligerent shall enter any port, roadstead, or waters belonging to Her Majesty, such vessel shall be required to depart and to put to sea within twenty-four hours after her entrance into such port, roadstead, or waters, except in case of stress of weather, or of her requiring provisions or things necessary for the subsistence of her crew, or repairs, in either of which cases the authorities of the port, or of the nearest port (as the case may be), shall require her to put to sea as soon as possible after the expiration of such period of twenty-four hours, without permitting her to take in supplies beyond what may be necessary for her immediate use; and no such vessel which may have been allowed to remain within British waters for they purpose of repair shall continue in such port, roadstead, or waters for a longer period than twenty-four hours after her necessary repairs shall have been completed." 489 Georgia Georgia Georgia Georgia 490 491 "It will doubtless be remembered that the proposition made by you, which I had the honour of being the medium of conveying to my Government, to agree upon some forms of amendment of the existing statutes of the two countries, in order to make them more effective, was entertained by the latter not from any want of confidence in the ability to enforce the existing statute, but from a desire to co-operate with what then appeared to be the wish of Her Majesty's Ministers. But upon my communicating this reply to your Lordship, and inviting the discussion of the proposition, you then informed me that it had been decided not to proceed any further in this direction, as it was the opinion of the Cabinet, sustained by the authority of the Lord Chancellor, that the law was fully effective in its present state." "I deem it incumbent on me, on behalf of Her Majesty's Government, frankly to state to you that Her Majesty's Government will not be induced to propose to Parliament any new laws which they may not, for reasons of their own, think proper to be adopted," 492 Maury 493 Georgia 494 495 496
 MR. MORRITT  said, he had it at last in his power to bring before the House the Motion which had stood for such a length of time upon the paper. The delay had not by any means been owing to him —quite the contrary. What had caused the delay it was needless to inquire, but as far as he was concerned he thought he was only placed in a better position, and he did not regret what had occurred. There was one thing, however, which he did regret, and that was the extremely empty state of the House—
 MR. ALDERMAN ROSE  said, he believed the country would endorse the definition of the law of neutrality as laid down by the Attorney General, and carried out by the Administration. He denied that the opinions of the hon. Members for Rochdale and Bradford were shared by the people at large. The hon. Member for Rochdale had given the House a list of the losses which had occurred to the United States navy, but he had not alluded to the other losses of that country — its loss of liberty, of credit, of everything which a country should hold dear. The South had, no doubt, the blot of slavery to contend against; but had the North had nothing to do with that? He contended that all the
 514
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that after the recess he would call the attention of the House to the subject.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether he will lay upon the table of the House, Copy of a Despatch
 460
 MR. DU CANE  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether the Commission appointed last year to inquire into the present state of the Oyster Fisheries of this Country has made any Report; and whether it is the intention of this Government to ask the Government of France to agree to an
 458
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, these exactions and oppressions which are alleged to have been committed in Jutland constitute a strong additional reason for endeavouring to put an end to the war. My noble Friend the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs has not, in consequence of those exactions which are alleged to have taken place, ceased to attend the Conference; and I think the House will be of opinion that he would have acted very unwisely if he had done so, instead of endeavouring, in concert with other neutral Powers—and that successfully—to obtain a suspension of arms, one of the conditions of which is, that the Austrian and Prussian armies are not to levy any contributions on the people of Jutland, but are to pay for everything that is furnished to them.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, I answered a Question the other evening which was put to me by the hon. Member for North Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt) relative to the sentence passed upon some gipsies in Cornwall, who were alleged to have been
 462 "Lelant Vicarage, May 12.—Having received this morning your letter of the 10th instant, requesting me to furnish you with a full report of the case of the committal of the Gipsies by me, I beg to communicate to you the following particulars:—At Redruth, some few days before the committal, one of them was apprehended by the police for vagrancy, and was discharged on her promising to leave the neighbourhood; instead of doing which she was found the following day at Camborne, only three miles off, telling fortunes. On another day subsequent, a man and woman of the party were found sleeping together under a waggon which did not belong to them, and again cautioned by the police. On the Saturday previous to my committal the whole party were found on the estate of Trelissick, in the parish of St. Erth, where they did a great deal of injury, breaking down trees and lighting fires, when the police again cautioned them, and finding them there again on Monday, apprehended them and brought them to me. They had passed through the western part of the country, between Redruth and St. Erth, begging and telling fortunes. The superintendent of police had given particular directions to the police to watch them, as there had been many thefts committed in that part of the county, and this party of Gipsies had been suspected of being connected with them. When the party were brought before me, I examined them individually and collectively, and found that they had no visible moans of subsistence, and could give no satisfactory account of themselves. Under these circumstances, for the safety of the county, I considered it my duty to commit them."
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Owing, Sir, to the short notice I have had of the Question of the hon. and gallant Member, I have not been able to ascertain all the facts relating to the subject. There is an old statute under which the Archbishop of Canterbury has the power to confer a Doctor's Degree, and I believe that power was recognized by the last Medical Act, but attaching certain qualifications to the person receiving the degree. I am also able to say that the present Archbishop has never exercised the power.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE : I wish to say a few words on the part of an absent friend. He is a gentleman who is very sensitive on points that affect his character. I allude to Mr. Herbert. He is particularly anxious that no misconception should prevail in this House with regard to what he is supposed to have stated respecting his picture. It had come to his knowledge that an impression prevails in this House that he said something to this effect—that he will not undertake to go on with any more work unless he shall be paid the sum of £5,000. Mr. Herbert is very anxious that it should be distinctly understood that he never said or intended to say anything of the sort. Mr. Herbert is a gentleman who works far more for fame and reputation than for profit, though he feels, and it is felt by his friends, that the work he has done occupied an extent of time that renders it a matter of justice to himself and to his family that some additional remuneration should be given to him.
 MR. COWPER  said, Mr. Dyce had received the whole sum agreed upon in advance, and had completed six panels, two remaining unfinished. He thought it was well understood that the price which was fixed so many years ago was very inadequate to the amount of labour and skill that Mr. Dyce bestowed upon his work. No decision had been come to with respect to the work which remained to be executed. [Mr. CAVENDISH BENTINCK: With regard to the money?] No decision had been come to upon the subject; but the fullest consideration would be given to it, and he appreciated the feelings of the hon. Gentleman in wishing that nothing illiberal should be done by the Government.
 MR. LIDDELL  was anxious to know whether the right hon. Gentleman approved the principle of the second clause of which notice had been given by the hon. Member for Sunderland (Mr. Fenwick)—that wherever the rateable hereditaments were of an exhaustible nature a deduction should be made from the rateable value sufficient to reproduce the capital value of the exhaustible portion at the termination of the estimated period of exhaustion.
 LORD HARRY VANE  concurred with the right hon. Baronet in thinking that the right hon. Gentleman ought not readily to assent to the clause.
 MR. LAYARD : Sir, as was stated the other evening, undoubtedly the understanding of the Conference was, that after the suspension of arms which was agreed upon no more forced contributions should be raised in Jutland, and, on the contrary, that all provisions should be paid for. I see by statements in the newspapers that forced contributions have been raised, but the Government have received no information on the subject.
 MR. LAYARD : Part of the Austrian I squadron remained behind at Lisbon, and I presume it has gone to rejoin the other vessels, not, however, in the Baltic, but in the North Sea.
 MR. LAYARD : Sir, the Government have received despatches both from Constantinople and from our Consuls on the shores of the Black Sea, stating that a large emigration has taken place from Circassia. [Mr. HENNESSY: A forced emigration.] It is so far forced that these Circassians, having been subdued by the Russian army, consider it impossible to live under the dominion of Russia, and have taken refuge in Turkey. I may add that the utmost efforts are being made there to provide for these poor people, and the Sultan has subscribed a large sum towards furnishing them with provisions and shelter. At the same time, I believe a great mortality has taken place among them. I will look at the despatches which we have received on this subject, and, if possible, will produce them.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that if the House would insist upon a map and a valuation, great expense must be incurred. But if a map were permitted, the guardians themselves would make the valuation, and no correct valuation could be made until a map was provided.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  supported the clause.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he was rejoiced that the right hon. Gentleman was about to consider the gross injustice of assessing the royalty of mines as income.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, he would agree to the clause if the words "or without" the valuation were omitted.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, that if the hon. Gentleman (Mr. John Peel) would withdraw the clause, he would himself
 520
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, that he had not pledged himself to that principle, but the whole subject of deduction and exemption should receive his attentive consideration, with a view to legislation next Session.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  opposed the clause, but promised that he would consider the subjects referred to in the other Amendments before next Session.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, it was not very clear how existing Acts affected magistrates in the ease referred to. He had, therefore, determined to frame a clause removing all doubt on the subject.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, he preferred the words which it was proposed to strike out.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, he had no objection to the principle of the addition proposed by the right hon. Baronet; but he would prepare a clause which would carry out his object in a manner more consonant with the other portions of the Bill.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  agreed to the Amendment.
 MR. HOWES  called attention to a doubt which had lately arisen, whether magistrates individually interested as ratepayers were entitled to sit and hear appeals.
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK , with reference to the contract entered into between the Government and Mr. Dyce, asked. Whether the whole of the sum agreed upon had been paid, and what proportion of the paintings had been executed? In the event of the agreement not having been completed according to contract, he thought, under the circumstances, it would not be right to exact the return of the money from Mr. Dyce's representatives.
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, it was unnecessary for him after the explanation just made to assert that he had, as he thought, sufficient authority for the statement which he had addressed to the House on Thursday, and that he had not absented himself on the Friday from any wish to evade responsibility. Not only did he feel a great admiration for Mr. Herbert as an artist, but he entertained a sincere regard for him as a friend, and he would not, therefore, have said anything which he thought likely to distress him or prejudice his interest. At the same time, after the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he considered it his duty to express his view as strongly as he could that Mr. Herbert was entitled to £5,000, not as a matter of justice, but of right.
 MR. WHITESIDE : I wish, Sir, to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether he or the Government have received information that contributions or exactions have been demanded by the Prussian Army from the people of Denmark; and whether it is in accordance with the terms settled at the Conference that, during the armistice, the Prussian Army should be at liberty to levy these exactions?
 MR. DODSON  called attention to the fact that, if this clause passed in its present shape it would make the Bill inconsistent with the principal Act passed in 1862, which provided that in case the valuation list was appealed against, the Board of Guardians should be the parties to defend it; whereas this clause proposed that the assessment committees should defend the rate appearing on that list against which an appeal should be made. The inference, therefore, would be that the assessment committee was a body having a corporate existence; whereas, in reality, it was only a portion of the Board of Guardians dealing with the funds of the Board. He proposed, therefore, to omit from the clause the words "assessment committee," in order to insert "Boards of Guardians."
 MR. DODSON  moved to leave out "committee," and insert "Board of Guardians." The object of his Amendment was to make what he understood to be the object of the clause more clear—namely, that the costs of respondents in appeals should be paid out of the common fund of the union.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he rose to ask, Whether the Government have received from their Agents abroad any information touching the conduct of the Russian Government in Circassia; and, if so, whether they will lay the Papers upon the table?
 MR. JOHN PEEL  moved to insert new clause after Clause 5 (Provision for new maps, plans, and books of reference).
 MR. JOHN PEEL  objected to the omission of the words, because he wanted to have the maps without a new survey or valuation. Why should they go to the expense of a new survey and valuation without any necessity for incurring it?
 MR. WENTWORTH BEAUMONT , for Mr. H. Fenwick, who had given notice of new clauses (Abolishing deductions from rental in ascertaining value), (Deduction where rate of an exhaustible nature), (Provision in cases of small tenements rated instead of occupiers), (Rates may be amended in certain cases), moved the first of these clauses.
 MR. WENTWORTH BEAUMONT  said, he would withdraw the clause.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the Act for the
 521
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I have not seen the statement, or even heard of it.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I see, Sir, in the newspapers a statement that an Austrian squadron has proceeded to the Baltic. Has the Government any information on this subject?
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he would request permission to be allowed to make a personal explanation respecting something which fell from him on Friday before the adjournment of the House for the recess, and which had, he believed, caused some annoyance to his hon. Friend (Mr. Cavendish Bentinck). His hon. Friend was hurt, first, at a statement which, as he thought, implied that he had spoken of Mr. Herbert's charge for the fresco in the House of Lords without that gentleman's authority; and secondly, because he had received no notice as to this statement. The facts were these:—In coming down to the House early on Friday morning to attend a Committee, he (Sir Stafford Northcote) met Mr. Herbert, who seemed much distressed at the newspaper report of what his (Sir Stafford Northcote's) hon. Friend had stated, and said he was most anxious it should be understood that he had uttered nothing that could be considered disrespectful either to the House or the Government. Mr. Herbert asked his advice, and he recommended him to communicate with his hon. Friend, who might then make a statement to the House; and he added, that if Mr. Herbert could not find his hon. Friend, he would then himself make such a statement. On coming into the House that evening, he did not find his hon. Friend present, and he, therefore, said what he did. He had apologized to his hon. Friend for not having given him notice, but he had fully understood that Mr. Herbert would do so. He had since heard that Mr. Herbert did see his hon. Friend, and it was arranged between them that nothing should be said on the subject; but as Mr. Herbert did not let him (Sir Stafford Northcote) know this, he had heard nothing about the matter. He had had a full account of the conversation which had taken place between his hon. Friend and Mr. Herbert, and though he would not trouble the House with the details of the conversation, he might say, and
 516
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  moved, at the end of the clause, to add,
 "Provided always, That no ratepayer shall have a right of appeal under the existing law to the special sessions or quarter sessions unless his objections to the valuation list shall have been made before the meeting or meetings of the assessment committee appointed under the Act to hear such objections."
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  hoped the right hon. Gentleman would carefully consider the clause and the expense which it would throw upon the parishes.
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR : Was it not understood that provisions were to be paid for during the armistice?
 MAJOR KNOX  said, he wished to ask, Whether it is true that the Guards have been ordered home from Canada, and whether other troops have been ordered out in their place?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : Sir, it has been decided that two battalions of Guards and one battalion of the Military Train should come home from Canada without relief.
 COLONEL NORTH , in calling attention to the services of Captain Grant, and moving an Address to Her Majesty praying for the grant of some suitable reward, complained that the Board which had been appointed to inquire into the merits of Captain Grant's invention had not been fairly constituted. Captain Grant's apparatus had been spoken of in terms of approval by several distinguished general officers, by official Boards, and by two Secretaries of State. It was now said that improvements had been made in the apparatus; but he should like to know the invention in which improvements had not been made. The man who originated the principle ought to be rewarded; and Captain Grant said that his principle had been adopted, though there were alterations in the details. His noble Friend the Secretary for War had spoken of the great reduction caused in one item of the Army Estimates by the saving in the consumption of fuel. As Captain Grant's apparatus had been in use for the last eight years, there could be no doubt that much of the saving was to be attributed to the invention for which the gallant captain claimed remuneration. His hon. and gallant Friend (General Lindsay) had proposed that the remuneration to Captain Grant should be equal to the amount saved in one year's consumption of fuel. In reply to that proposition, the late Sir George Lewis said there was no precedent for making a grant of £25,000 or £30,000 for services like those of Captain Grant; thereby acknowledging that by Captain Grant's invention from £25,000 to £30,000 had been saved in the annual consumption of coal. He wanted to know whether Captain Grant himself had been shelved, although the service and the public had the advantage of his invention. Only two years ago, when a force of 12,000 was sent to Canada, Captain Grant was sent for to know if he could prepare cooking apparatus for the force; and within one month he prepared the necessary kitchens for that number of men. Sir. Rowland Hill had been rewarded, and properly so,
 524
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, this question had been before the House for a long time, and the House had on a previous occasion come to a decision after full discussion and consideration; and he did hope that if his hon. and gallant Friend divided on the present occasion the House would come to a final conclusion on the subject. He hoped they would pronounce an opinion that would be decisive, and would show they were not willing that Captain Grant's claims should be perpetually coming before them. The question was originally brought forward on a Motion by the hon. and gallant Gentleman the Member for Wigan (General Lindsay) declaring that Captain Grant ought to receive remuneration. That Motion was negatived, but only by a narrow majority; and on subsequent occasions in the same Session the subject was brought before the House. Later in the Session, the hon. and gallant Member for Wigan again asked Sir George Lewis whether, considering the narrow majority against his Motion, the case ought not to be deemed one for a Commission? Sir George Lewis promised that an inquiry by Commission should take place. A Commission was appointed; and the Commissioners came
 525 526
 LORD NAAS  said, he was unwilling to go at any length into this subject, because he could not do so without interfering with the discussion which must come on upon the Motion of the hon. Member for Rochdale (Mr. Cobden); and at present there was no Question before the House except that the Speaker leave the Chair, and, therefore, it was impossible to ask the House to give an opinion on the subject.
 540 541
 MR. COWPER  said, that last year, when the Estimate for the new Foreign Office was brought forward, he stated to the House that the Bum of £200,000 was the total amount which Mr. Scott, the architect, reckoned the erection of the building would cost. Since then, however, tenders had been received, the lowest of which amounted to £223,516. He stated at the time that the sum he named was the best estimate which Mr. Scott could furnish, but that the only real test would be the tenders. He did not now think that they had any reason to find fault with Mr. Scott's estimate, which he believed would have turned out correct if the work had been executed at the time it was made, But since then the price of labour and materials had risen in the market, and that fact accounted for the tender being higher than the estimate. The item of £4,899 charged for "preliminary expenses of designs for a Foreign Office which were not adopted "was not submitted to Parliament before because Mr. Seott abstained from sending in his claim until a final decision had been come to with regard to the Foreign Office. In that item was included the charge for the designs prepared by the direction of his predecessor the noble Lord opposite (Lord John Manners) in the Gothic style, which style the House, after full consideration, deliberately determined to reject. That rejection, however, did not deprive Mr. Scott of his right to fair remuneration for his labour, because his designs enabled the House to judge of what would have been the character of the building in case they had adopted the Gothic style.
 MR. KINNAIRD  believed that Admiral Hope had the utmost desire to act with perfect good faith towards the Taepings, but experience showed that those people would not keep faith themselves. He concurred in thinking that Captain Osborn's expedition would have been of great benefit to the Imperial Government, and of great advantage to our trade in clearing the livers of pirates; but, under the circumstances, Captain Osborn acted with great discretion in withdrawing his ships, though that step was a great loss to the Imperial Government in China.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, the noble Lord had expressed a hope that his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter) would be satisfied with the explanation which he had given to his statement. He (Mr. Liddell) trusted that the House of Commons would not express themselves contented with the answer just given by the noble Lord, for a more unsatisfactory answer than that of the noble Lord he had never heard. He (Mr. Liddell) felt himself compelled to offer a few observations in reply to some of the most glaring inconsistencies it had ever been his lot to listen to from a responsible Minister of the Crown. The noble Lord spoke with the natural pride of an Englishman of the extension of our trade in China, which extension, the noble Lord said, was due to the policy of Her Majesty's Government; and in the very next sentence the noble Lord spoke of the desolation of the country, owing to what he called the inroads of the rebels. But he (Mr. Liddell) would ask, in whose hands had been the great producing districts of China? When the noble Lord accused his hon. Friend behind him of not having read the despatches, he (Mr. Liddell) must, with great deference, accuse
 538 539 Firefly
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  wished to know whether he was to understand that £5,000, in round numbers, had been expended without any previous sanction from that House, in preparing designs that were not adopted. That mode of bringing forward items of charge incurred four or five years ago was highly objectionable. There was very little check or control exercised by the Treasury over the expenditure of the offices immediately subject to it, and more particularly of the Board of Works. Indeed, as a check in these matters, the Treasury seemed of very little use. He thought that it would be extremely improper to proceed with the Estimates in so thin a House, and moved that the House be counted.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, in the present thin state of the House, he doubted whether it was proper to proceed with the discussion of the Estimates, that the Estimate for this work had been increased since last year from £200,000 to £228,000, and there was an extra item of £4,899 now brought forward for the first time for abortive designs. He supposed that those designs had been prepared on the sole authority of the Board of Works.
 COLONEL C. P. LESLIE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether it is true that the  Royal Sovereign 522
 MR. CARDWELL : I entirely recognize the justice of the appeal which has been made to me, that I should state fully and frankly to the House all that I know on this subject. I am also glad that the right hon. Baronet has taken the opportunity of introducing the topic on the Question of the Motion for Supply rather than by a Question in the usual form, because I am thereby enabled to give a fuller explanation than I could have given to a Question to which the rules of the House permit only a categorical answer. The state of the case is as follows: As hon. Members are aware, the British forts on the Gold Coast constitute the whole of the actual possessions of the British Crown in those parts; but there is a wide territory, extending for some seventy miles up the river Prah, which separates what is called the British Protectorate from the territory of the King of Ashantee. In December, 1862, the Governor of the Gold Coast wrote to the Duke of Newcastle that the King of Ashantee had demanded the surrender of two persons fugitives from his dominions. One was a boy—an escaped slave—and the other was an older person, charged with having misappropriated a piece of rock gold, which by the law of Ashantee is the property of the Sovereign, and has to be accounted for to the King of Ashantee. The Governor of the Gold Coast examined into the allegations against the two fugitives, and found that there was not a tittle of evidence that either had been guilty of any crime which would justify his being given up to the King of Ashantee. There was, on the contrary, abundant reason to know that death was the fate that awaited them should they be surrendered. He accordingly declined to surrender these fugitives, saying that if he did so their blood would be on his head—a feeling in which I believe every Member of this House will sympathize, for no one would wish to see fugitives who have sheltered themselves under the protection of the British flag surrendered under such circumstances. The conduct of the Governor received the approval of the Duke of Newcastle. In the spring of 1863 a force of the King of Ashantee invaded the protected territory. They were met by forces partly organized and commanded by British officers and partly consisting of Native troops. The army of the King of Ashantee extended its ravages
 549 "The principle of all military proceedings on the West Coast of Africa should be that of defence, and not of aggression. It is upon this principle alone that the Governors are authorized to make war, and no invasion of neighbouring territories can be sanctioned, unless it can be shown that it is really a defensive measure, safer, less costly in blood and money, and more likely to be decisive in its results than waiting for an attack which is being prepared. His Grace feels, therefore, that he cannot refuse to Governor Pine a conditional authority to strike a blow within the Ashantee territory, if such a blow can be struck without making any other or further advance than, in his own opinion and that of the officer in command, may be consistent with the utmost consideration for the safety of the troops." 550 Rattlesnake 551 552
 MR. CHILDERS , in reply, said, the  Royal Sovereign
 MR. WHITESIDE : Sir, seeing the noble Viscount in his place, I beg to repeat a Question which I put to the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs yesterday. I wish to know, Whether the Government have received communications to the effect that exactions and contributions have been levied by the Prussian army pending the armistice; and whether it is in accordance with the terms of the armistice, as defined by the Conference, that these contributions or exactions should be levied?
 MR. SPEAKER  resumed the Chair.
 MR. GREGSON  said, he was satisfied with the noble Lord's declaration, that the Order in Council had been withdrawn, and that the policy of the British Government would be confined to defending the treaty ports and defending British life and property, and would not be in any way directed to hostilities against either party in China. The expedition of Captain Osborn had, as stated by the hon. Member for Montrose, failed; but he regretted that that was the case, for its purpose was a noble one. The Chinese Government were very sincere in their application for that force, and promptly remitted the whole of the money to pay for the ships; but afterwards some interference took place on the part of the officers of the Chinese Government, and Captain Osborn would not
 545
 MR. BAXTER , in rising to call attention to the state of affairs in China, and to put a Question to the First Lord of the Treasury on the subject, said, he was unwilling to take any course which might be considered unfriendly to Her Majesty's Government. He did not share in the general dissatisfaction which had been expressed by hon. Gentlemen opposite with respect to their recent management of our foreign policy; on the contrary, he entirely approved of the course Her Majesty's Ministers had pursued in Europe and America, and which had ensured the continuance of our peaceful relations with those countries. But it was because he approved of their policy of peace and non-interference in Europe and America, that he disapproved of their policy of war and interference in China. He believed the time had come when a stop ought to be put to a course of proceeding which was not creditable to British arms, and which, if it were much longer persisted in, might lead us into difficulties, the importance of which it would be hardly possible to exaggerate. He objected to the policy of assisting the Imperial Government in China for two reasons: in the first place, because he believed that in doing so we were acting on a bad principle; and, in the second place, because he did not think our efforts in that direction were likely to be attended with success. He did not, however, deem it necessary, after the exhaustive speeches which had been made on the subject by the hon. Member for Northumberland (Mr. Liddell) and the noble Lord the Member for Cockermouth (Lord Naas), to enter very largely into details on the present occasion. As a merchant owning goods in the treaty ports of China, he did not hesitate to confess that he naturally wished those goods to be protected; but it was, he admitted, a doubtful question whether he was justified in calling upon the general body of the taxpayers of this country to contribute their money with that object, under the exceptional circumstances in which China was placed. Be that, however, as it might, he felt perfectly convinced that he was not, as a representative of the people, justified in voting away their money to assist a dynasty in that country which he looked upon as utterly effete and tottering to its fail. He should, no doubt, be met at the outset by the argument, that Her Majesty's Government had done nothing more than defend the treaty ports; and the Under Secretary
 528 Encounter 529 Five Years on the Yang-tze 530 couleur de rose "No course could be so well calculated to lower our national character as to yield our materia support to a Government the corruption of whose authorities is only checked by its weakness." 531
 MR. BAXTER  said, the noble Lord had not properly caught his meaning. His observations referred to upholding the Imperial dynasty in China.
 MR. BAXTER : I said that might be an open question.
 COLONEL SYKES : By whom?
 COLONEL SYKES : No, no!
 COLONEL SYKES  said, as there was a prospect of a full discussion upon this subject, he would limit himself to a few remarks. The noble Viscount justified his interference in China by saying that he had interfered in other countries, but he had overlooked the motives for interference, on those occasions. In Europe we had interfered to protect the rights of the people against oppressive Governments, and that interference was to our honour in the cases of Belgium, Portugal, and, to some extent, Spain; but in China we had interfered in behalf of a Government which had been described by Sir Frederick Bruce and others of our representatives there, as the most corrupt, treacherous, and cruel Government on the face of the earth. He held in his hand extracts from a despatch of the American Minister at Pekin, which contained the real views of the representatives of the four great European Powers in China, namely Russia, France, America, and England—and which despatch had been presented as an official communication by the American Secretary of State to Congress. He (Colonel Sykes) came to a knowledge of the existence of Mr. Burling-hame's despatch in this wise. The Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs on a recent occasion had quoted a passage from Mr. Burlinghame's despatch to the American Secretary of State. To verify that quotation he (Colonel Sykes) consulted the
 542 "I expressed a warm desire that he (Sir Frederick Bruce) would present them (his views) to his Government, that they might become the basis of our future co-operation." "He accordingly wrote the powerful despatch marked A, which he communicated to me for my private use, and which, with his permission, I send to you confidentially, with the most positive request that it is not to appear until it is first published in England. The three Ministers hailed with delight this frank avowal. The policy upon which we are agreed is briefly this, 'That while we claim our treaty right to buy and sell and hire in the treaty ports, subject, in respect to our rights of property and person, to the jurisdiction of our own Government, we will not ask for, nor take concessions of territory in the treaty ports, nor in any way interfere with the jurisdiction of the Chinese Government over its own people, nor ever menace the territorial integrity of the Chinese Empire. That we will not take part in the internal struggles in China, beyond what is necessary to maintain our treaty rights. That the latter we will unitedly sustain against all who may violate them.' To this end we are now clear in the policy of defending the treaty ports against the Taepings or rebels, but in such a way as not to make war upon that considerable portion of the Chinese people by following them into the interior of their country. In this connection, while we feel desirous from what we know of it to have the rebellion put down, still we have come to question
 543 "It behoves the British Parliament—the British people—to look to the new complication of affairs in China, to look it fully in the face. If we are to pacify the Empire, we shall require 50,000 troops, and may then find again that we have undertaken more than we are equal to. But, I ask, in whose interest are we to put down the rebellion? Hitherto, Admiral Hope has been acting in the interest of the Imperial Government. Now, I protest against our putting down the rebellion on behalf of the Imperial Government on two grounds. The first is, the ground of its cruelty. I have read harrowing accounts of the devastations of the rebels—how the country is blasted by their march. The accounts are, no doubt, true. But I have seen also the ways of the Imperial braves, and kept company with them for hours together. Their march over the country was like the progress of locusts and caterpillars. Their thirst for blood was quenchless; their outrages on the young and old were indescribable. On the score of cruelty the case must be about equal, inclining to the Imperialist side, if we may judge on the principle that the more cowardly are the more cruel." 544
 MR.W. WILLIAMS  asked when it was likely the new Foreign Office would be
 554
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he was sure it would be extremely satisfactory to the House to know that the war with the King of Ashantee was about to terminate. He was afraid, however, it would not terminate with either honour or advantage to our arms. It appeared to him that some blame attached to the Government for the want of provision for the troops sent to the hot climate of the Gold Coast. The Colonial Secretary had talked of having sent an excellent commissariat officer to Cape Coast; but it was not possible to provide supplies for British troops in such a country, and the excellence of the officer would hardly make up for the want of food. He knew from personal experience that cattle could not live on the Gold Coast, and that it was necessary to kill and salt them as soon as landed. In that hot climate, where a fourth of our men were within a short period laid up with dysentery, how was it possible to feed them with salted provisions? He trusted measures would immediately be taken to remove our officers and men to some climate in which they would have a chance of being restored to an effective state. There was one point upon which the Colonial Secretary had not touched. At present the friendly Native forces were subsidized to assist us in the Ashantee war. He was informed, however, by persons recently returned from the spot, that the chiefs never expressed any desire for the protection we were affording them, and that they were only induced to aid us by liberal pay. He was also informed that the value of all the villages destroyed by the Ashantee forces, which appeared so formidable to English notions, did not exceed £400, and that the friendly Native chiefs would rather have that sum paid in money than the defence and protection of our arms. If that information were correct, the House would probably agree with him that the payment of £400 would be far more economical than either the prolongation of the war or the continuance of the subsidy to the Native chiefs.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : According to my notice, I rise to ask from Her Majesty's Government some explanation with regard to the war in which this country is engaged with the King of Ashantee—a subject which requires explanation no less than the more important question of the state of our relations with China which has just now been under discussion. I very much doubt if many lion. Members were aware of the fact that we are at this time engaged in a war with Ashantee, until a question relative to it was put the other night by the hon. and gallant Baronet the Member for Wakefield (Sir John Hay). At that time I did not consider the answer of the right hon. Gentleman the Colonial Secretary was quite satisfactory; and since that time I have not only seen some very interesting and remarkable letters and statements in the public papers, but I have myself received private communications relative to the subject, and I have also had an opportunity of reading some private letters, which have convinced mo that the time is come when the serious attention of Her Majesty's Government ought to be directed to this subject, and when Parliament has a right to expect that some information should be given re-
 546 547 hors de combat hors de combat 548
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I believe their bodies were found in a charred state, but there is no other proof of the fact. Of course persons in the interest of these people—who like to carry on a contraband trade with the Taepings, and to make a profit by supplying them with arms and ammunition—send home to their acquaintances high-flown panegyrics on the Taepings; but every impartial person writing from China, bears witness to the desolation marking the track of the Taepings. The districts which they occupy are laid waste, the people reduced to starvation; and only the other day we heard of a place in which the people were obliged to eat human flesh as a last resource. Is that a state of things conducive to British commerce? Is that a state of things the extension of which to the immediate neighbourhood of our treaty ports we ought to permit? My hon. Friend does not deny that as far as the radius of thirty miles from these ports extends, we are justified in what we have done, and that it is our duty to keep these marauding Taepings from making piratical incursions within those limits. But my hon. Friend who says he has carefully studied the blue-books, has not studied with equal care the history of China. He talked of the present dynasty as a foreign dynasty; and though he did not say, he certainly implied that it had
 535 536 537
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : By the Taepings.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : My hon. Friend now says that would be an open question. But, at all events, in the question which he put to me at the conclusion of his speech, there was no uncertainly whatever; because he asked whether the Government would confine themselves to maintaining the security of our establishments in the treaty ports, in one of which I suppose his property must lie. I am bound to say that I quite concur in the propriety of maintaining and defending the security of British interests in the treaty ports. But what has been the history of our interference in China? See the inconsistency of these mercantile gentlemen. They are constantly urging the Government to make treaties of commerce with foreign countries, and to extend the range of our commercial intercourse. Only the other day I received a deputation from the manufacturing districts urging that a re-organization of the Foreign Office and the Board of Trade should take place, for the purpose of enabling the Government more adequately to extend the commercial relations of this country. And the feeling no doubt was honestly entertained, because everybody must know that on the extension of our commerce depends, in a very great degree, the prosperity of our country, the accumulation of our capital, the abundance of our revenue, and the strength and prosperity of the nation. Any measure, therefore, calculated to increase the commercial relations of the country, so far from meriting the censure which my hon. Friend, as a commercial man, thought fit to pass upon it, is deserving of praise, because it accords with the wishes and interests of the country. It was long felt that trade with China would open a vast field of commercial enterprise to us; and there can be no doubt that, among other things, the great expansion of commerce with that empire has contributed to enable us to meet without disaster the unfortunate obstructions to our commerce and manufactures occasioned by events still going on in America. My hon. Friend says that the Chinese, especially the Imperialists, are a cruel people. Well, I have myself said in this House, and I repeat it, that the characteristics of the Chinese population are cruelty and perfidy. But those qualities are not confined to
 534 Firefly
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : My hon. Friend said it was quite true he had mer-
 533
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I am quite ready to answer the Question of my hon. Friend, but I must be allowed to say I regret, that though my hon. Friend says that
 532
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, Yes, clearly.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, the conditions of the armistice were quite clear as to this—that no fresh contributions should be levied. There is some ambiguity as to the understanding between the parties, whether contributions which were ordered before the armistice were to continue to be levied. But my noble Friend at the head of the Foreign Office is in communication with the Prussian Government on the subject.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, that the statement of the noble Lord would lead them to believe that there was no defect in the construction of the vessel. [Lord CLARENCE PAGET: Hear, hear!] But it appeared that there had been some great neglect in making the experiments, and he thought it was only right that the subject should be investigated, so that they should ascertain who was answerable for that neglect, in order that he might receive a fitting censure.
 MR. WHITE SIDE : Do the terms of the armistice contain that obligation?
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that his right hon. Friend might safely assume that nothing which had occurred this year, and nothing contained in this Bill, could be productive of any such precedent as that of which he had justly expressed his apprehension. If he understood the view of the Select Committee correctly, it was that the office of Under Secretary was not a new office within the meaning of the Statute of  Anne de novo
 COLONEL DICKSON  was glad that they had found an Irish subject in which English Members seemed to take an interest, although a collateral one. He was sorry to hear the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland admit that since he went to that country the number of houses of ill-fame had increased so largely in Dublin. He (Colonel Dickson) did not wish to oppose the second reading, but he thought the measure ought to be one of a much more complex character. It appeared to him that the only effect the Bill could have would be to interfere with the drinking of beer in Ireland. Now he was of opinion that it was most desirable to encourage the use of that beverage in Ireland, instead of the much stronger liquors to which the people were so long accustomed. He concurred with the hon. Member for Clonmel (Mr. Bagwell) in thinking that there was nothing in the Bill to prevent the frightful adulterations that were going on. The whole system of licensing required alteration. The great curse of Ireland was the great number of; drinking shops. He hoped that the right hon. Baronet would withdraw this Bill, and introduce one of a much wider scope.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the right hon. Gentleman was greatly mistaken if he were legislating upon the notion that there were not adulterations of beer in England as well as in Ireland; because inquiries on the subject had brought to light the fact that many of those articles which he mentioned were used quite as much in adulterating the beer in this country as in Ireland, It appeared to him that there was something in the remedy suggested by the noble Lord (Lord John Manners), because if beer were made cheaper, then there would be no such temptation to adulterate. He (Mr. Henley) deprecated the principle of having a separate law for Ireland upon this subject —he thought that they ought to have only one law for both countries. He did not know precisely what was the population of Dublin, but he thought it was something about 200,000; and 13,000 convictions for drunkenness in the year was no doubt a very large proportion. In Liverpool, last year, the convictions were 12,000, out of a much larger population. He believed that if people were determined to get drunk they would effect their object in spite of all laws intended to restrain them. He was altogether averse to making the law more restrictive in Ireland than it was in England.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, that the mere mention of this Bill had caused much dis-
 603
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he could not help thinking that his hon. Friend the Member for Portsmouth, had received a very one-sided and exaggerated statement of what had occurred on board the  Research 591
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : So far from the  Enterprise
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, in reply, that the trial of the guns on board the  Research
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, he could not understand how the police were to prevent adulteration, unless they were empowered to taste it. Did the right hon. Baronet intend that the police should go round from house to house tasting the liquor sold there. He reminded the right hon. Baronet that no steps had been taken to prevent adulteration in this country. He hoped the right hon. Baronet would not in the future stages of the Bill advertise Mr. Bass's ale at the expense of Messrs. Guinness's native production.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS : Have the Government received any information whether the orders issued have been obeyed since the establishment of the armistice, and whether payment has been made for all provisions?
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, it was a satisfaction to know from the right hon. Gentleman that the people of Ireland were disposed to adopt beer as a national beverage instead of whisky. He was sorry to hear that the beer in that country was mixed with so many deleterious ingredients; but he was glad to observe that the Chancellor of the Exchequer was sitting next the Chief Secretary for Ireland when he made his important and interesting statement, and he trusted that the House would never again hear from the Chancellor of the Exchequer that Ireland was in no way interested in the repeal of the malt tax. If, however, the House should hear that argument again, he trusted that it would be vigorously combated by the Chief Secretary for Ireland, and that the right hon. Gentleman would, in the interest of the poor of that country, advocate the repeal of the malt tax, which no doubt tended to promote the evil of adulteration, which was quite as much felt in England as in Ireland. There would be no objection on the part of English Members to place the Irish beer-houses under due restrictions.
 MR. LAYARD : Perhaps I may be allowed to say that on Friday night, after a Question was put on this subject, and also after the House was counted out, and, therefore, too late to communicate it to the House, the Prussian Ambassador forwarded to us a telegram which he had received from Count Bismark, stating positively that orders had been given that after the establishment of the armistice no forced contributions should be raised, and that if any had been raised subsequently they should be returned; that any orders issued for the raising of forced contributions should be abrogated at once; and that all provisions furnished to the Prussian troops for the future should be paid for. With regard to the proclamation mentioned by the hon. and learned Gentleman, no official information has been received by Her Majesty's Government; but we have sent both to Copenhagen and Berlin for all the information that can be
 593
 MR. LAYARD : I cannot answer that Question, for, as I said, we are waiting for information. All I can say is, that we have a distinct assurance from the Prussian Government that no forced contributions shall be raised after that date.
 MR. LAYARD : Undoubtedly. It has been already stated that the suspension of hostilities inferred that from the 12th instant no forced contributions should be raised, and all provisions should be paid for.
 MR. LAYARD , in reply, said, there were no negotiations pending with regard to the suspension or repeal of the "Reciprocity Treaty;" and the Government had received no official information upon the subject of the "Bonding Act."
 MR. LAYARD , in reply, said, he had not been able to obtain any information with regard to the trial of any persons for a breach of neutrality in China. But the jurisdiction which was exercised by the British Consular Courts in that country was exercised under three Orders in Council, dated the 13th of June, 1853, the 2nd of February, 1857, and the 12th of September, 1863.
 MR. LAYARD  said, there was no objection to the production of the award, but the difficulty of getting a reliable translation of a German document of eighty pages full of technical phrases would occasion some little delay. The case of Captain White was well known. Her Majesty's
 605
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, that the Question of the hon. and learned Gentleman was addressed not to the Under Secretary but to the noble Lord at the head of the Government, and he thought that a Question of that importance ought to be answered by the noble Lord himself, whom they nil rejoiced to see back among them, resuming his place in their proceedings. It was extremely unsatisfactory that, when attention had been directed to what appeared to be an infraction of a solemn engagement, they should receive merely a cursory answer, that the Question should not be treated by the highest authority, and that the House of Commons should be left to guess, to a great degree, what the proceedings really were. He wished to know from the noble Lord whether, if the provisions taken by the Prussians were to be paid for, they would be paid for in money, or in some kind of obligation invented by the Prussian authorities?
 COLONEL FRENCH  thought there was some irregularity connected with the acceptance of office by the Vice President of the Council for Education, inasmuch as a new writ for Merthyr Tydvil was issued, when in reality there was no vacancy created. The appointment was confined to a Privy Councillor, and as the hon. Gentleman who was selected was not at the time a Privy Councillor, there was no proper appointment, and consequently the House had no power to issue a writ. He hoped that such an irregularity would not occur again.
 COLONEL FRENCH  moved an address for a Copy of the Award made by the Senate of Hamburgh in the case of Captain Melville White. Captain White was a gentleman who had distinguished himself for his gallantry in every country he had visited. He had saved the lives of the English and French Consuls in the Red Sea, and, in addition to that, he had succoured a great number of vessels in a sinking state; and on the breaking out of the mutiny in India he went out there at his own expense, and did his country great service. This gentleman had occasion to enter the republic of Peru, when he was seized without cause, imprisoned, and most brutally treated—so treated, in fact, that the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs declared that it was one of the worst cases that had ever come under his observation; and the noble Earl the Foreign Secretary declared that it was a case which demanded reparation, and must be enforced by the whole power of England. The officers of the Government, on inquiry into the case, considered that £4,500 should be demanded from the Government of Peru as a requital for his sufferings. Captain White, however, considered that a disproportionate sum, and it was proposed that the decision should be left to the Senate of Hamburgh; but Captain While claimed that it should be placed under the arbitration of the Emperor of the French. The Government would not accede to his views, and the arbitration was left to the Senate of Hamburgh. They were ready to enforce the demand of £4,500, but they declined to make a demand for some £100,000, as wished by Captain White. The matter was, however, referred to the Senate of Hamburgh, who, after considerable delay, decided that Captain White was not entitled to any compensation whatever. The question, however, referred to the arbitration was between £4,500 and a larger sum. He therefore asked for a copy of the award, in order that he might be in a position to bring the subject before the House.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, the Bill appeared to English Members a very extraordinary one, for it would place beerhouses in Ireland on a totally different footing to that on which beer-houses in this country were placed. In this country beer-houses sold beer to be drunk on the premises, without any interference by the police; whereas, by this Bill, beer-houses in Ireland would be subject to stringent regulations, both at the hands of the magistrates and the police. Would the Government have any objection to frame a measure extending what they now proposed for Ireland to this country.
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, he was sorry to dash that little bit of consolation from the right hon. Baronet's lips. In England police supervision had certainly not had that effect. He served on the Adulteration Committee, and the evidence given before them went to show that the beer in London was very much adulterated. One of the medical witnesses stated the effect of drinking a quart of London beer by a countryman was to produce coma, from the large quantity of Cocculus Indicus which found its way into it in spite of police supervision.
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, he could find no clause in the Bill for the prevention of adulteration.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  trusted that the introduction of the present measure would stimulate the Home Secretary to bring in a measure for regulating beer-shops in England. Such a measure would receive support from his (the Opposition) side, which had besieged the Home Office for the last ten years in favour of the more stringent regulation of beer-shops. These houses might be more stringently supervised, either by magisterial licence or police supervision. He thought that some
 600
 MR. WHITESIDE : Is it an instrument in writing, and will it be laid on the table?
 MR. WHITESIDE : Before the Motion is agreed to I wish to ask the noble Lord, whether he has received, in reference to what is called "the armistice" between the belligerents, any information to the effect that twenty-four hours after the truce was in operation, and three days after notice of it had reached Jutland, Major General von Bornstedt, a Prussian General, addressed the following communication to the Provision Committee of Viborg:—
 592 "Should these my moderate commands not be instantly and scrupulously obeyed by the Provision Committee, I would give the gentlemen upon whom the execution devolved an opportunity to consider on bread and water their stubbornness, and would take by force of arms what the usages of war allow."
 MR. BAGWELL  said, however bad the beer was which was sold in Ireland, it was nothing in comparison to the kind of spirits which the people there were obliged to drink. Those vile adulterations were caused by the higher duty which was put upon spirits, and crime and madness had increased to a frightful degree. He however, could find nothing in the Bill of the right hon. Baronet to prevent the adulteration, of the beer of which he complained.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he thought that the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland ought to furnish to the House some explanation as to the necessity of this Bill.
 MR. HENNESSY  asked, whether the Government contemplated including brewers, who sold beer in large quantities, which was not to be consumed upon the premises, within the operation of the 6th clause?
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that Ireland had excellent brewers of her own.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he would beg to ask the noble Lord the Secretary of the Admiralty, whether the flotation of the  Enterprise
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, he saw no objection to the Bill, which aimed at the substitution of a superior class of vendors of beer. He wished he could see anything
 601
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that as this Bill overcame the difficulty which it was intended to meet, and did not alter the law, he would not offer any opposition to the second reading; but, at the same time, he wished to guard the House against a conclusion which might be drawn from what had taken place upon this occasion. In the Committee upstairs there was a great division of opinion as to whether the fifth Under Secretary was or was not disqualified from sitting by the Statute of  Anne Anne Anne Anne 596 Anne
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought it would be only courteous to the hon. Baronet, seeing that it was admitted that there were points in the banking system of Scotland which deserved the consideration of the House, to go into Committee, and give him an opportunity of submitting his plan. Further than that he could not go; because what the hon. Baronet treated as a very simple matter appeared to him to be very far from simple, and he could hardly imagine any single proposal connected with the currency that could raise a greater number of difficult questions. The hon. Baronet wished to make Bank of England notes to pass current north of the Tweed. But there was nothing to prevent Englishmen from taking Bank of England notes into Scotland or Scotchmen from receiving them. He understood that at present in Scotland paper was not a legal tender, and therefore this was a proposal to introduce it for the first time, and in favour of a note manufactured in England. They were not in a state to legislate on the Scotch bank issue this Session. There were great difficulties surrounding the proposal. It would require careful weighing, and if adopted it would have to be adopted with the general goodwill and consent of the people of Scotland, and, probably, in conjunction with many other subsidiary arrangements. He did not object to the introduction of the Bill, but he was not prepared to say he could give it his support on the second reading.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in moving that the House resolve itself into Committee for the purpose of agreeing to the following Resolution:—
 "That it is expedient to enable certain Banking Co-partnerships which shall discontinue the issue of their own Bank Notes to sue and be sued by their Public Officer,"
 CAPTAIN STACPOOLE  said, he would beg to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Why the long sentenced Convicts in Ireland from seven years and upwards are not sent to Western Australia in the same manner as the long sentenced English Convicts?
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State fur Foreign Affairs, Under what Rule, Ordinance, or Law, British subjects in China are subject to trial in the Consular Courts for breaches of neutrality in the present Civil War in China?
 MR. WATKIN  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, To state the present position of Negotiations with the Government of the United States in reference to the proposed
 588
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  asked why the first clause of the Bill referred exclusively to the Principal Secretaries of State, while the second clause referred both to the Principal Secretaries and the Under Secretaries?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the object of the Bill was to make effective the Act of 1858. If there happened to be four Members holding the office of Under Secretary in that House and a fifth was nominated, his seat would become vacant, and he would not be capable of being elected so long as those four Gentlemen continued to hold office; but it was impossible to say which of the number ought to be excluded from voting. It was not really necessary that the Bill should be made to apply to a Principal Secretary of State, because his seat became vacant on his acceptance of office. If, however, it was thought there was any ambiguity it could be remedied in Committee.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the police already had the power of entering every house for the sale of intoxicating liquors, and so far the Bill would assimilate and not separate the law of England and Ireland. Beer-shops were subject to restrictions which were not imposed upon public-houses. They were obliged to close at seven o'clock in the country, and at midnight in London and the large towns. They were not allowed to keep open all night like the public-houses. It was, however, he would admit, difficult to obtain convictions involving the forfeiture of the licence and the shutting-up of the house. He believed that it was possible on the third conviction for the magistrates to close the house for a limited period. He thought that if the police had the power of entering these public-houses and laying information, the law would not be so powerless as it was at present in Ireland to arrest disorder.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  asked if I all the Under Secretaries of State would be incapable of sitting and voting in that House, if there were one more elected at a General Election than the number generally allowed?
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, that with a view to put himself in order he would move the adjournment of the I House. He considered the Question to be I one of great importance, and it was most desirable that the real facts should he brought under the notice of the House. The answer of the noble Lord did not, according to his information, give the true facts of the case. He held in his hand a communication from an officer of high rank, in which he described the ship as having become a complete wreck. The Commander-in Chief at Plymouth had ordered her out of the Sound for the purpose of firing five rounds from each of her guns, which consisted of 100-pounders and 68-pounders; the former to be fired with 16 lb. of powder, and the other with 12 lb, by no means excessive charges. The result of the experiment was to send the pinnace three feet out of her "crutches," to break her back, to break the holts of the stanchions, to destroy the whole of the
 590 Enterprise
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he would beg to put a question to the noble Lord the
 589 Research "I suppose you have heard that the  Research Research
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, the object of the Bill was simply to make the Bank of England note pass current north of the Tweed, which was not the case now. It would be very convenient to all parties if they could make it a legal tender in Scotland.
 SIR JOHN HAY  moved that the House go into Committee, in order that the Chairman might be directed to move the House, that leave be given to bring in a Bill to authorize the Governor and Company of the Bank of England to issue their notes in Scotland, and to make such notes a legal tender there.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : Evidently not. The beer-house keeper was licensed to sell beer not to be drunk upon the premises, but in consequence of the want of police supervision it was drunk on the premises, and thus the law was evaded. It was now proposed to issue the three guinea licence and another at a guinea, and the police could then go in and see that tippling did not take place upon the premises. With regard to the observations of the hon. Member for Clonmel (Mr. Bagwell) he should be delighted if the Irish people could get good beer, but it was impossible for the House to legislate as to the quality of the article. He knew that his hon.
 602
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, its object was not to prevent adulteration except as alluded to by the hon. and learned Member for Mallow, by raising the character of the beer-shop keeper through the supervision of the police.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that he made a statement in respect to this Bill upon moving for its introduction; but as it was at an hour of the morning when very few Members were present, he would repeat the grounds upon which this measure was introduced. In Ireland, he regretted to say, the great source of crime and disorder was the intoxication which was encouraged by the beer-houses as well as by the whisky shops. In consequence of the establishment of a great many additional beer-houses, in Dublin particularly, intoxication had increased to a frightful extent, and crime had augmented in proportion, the existing law not allowing the police to enter into those houses as they were permitted to do with regard to the houses of licensed victuallers. In 1861 there were only three regular beer houses in Dublin; whereas now, owing to the extension of the trade, there were 270, in addition to 1,100 licensed victuallers and grocers' shops. In that state of things criminality of the worst kind existed. It further appeared that houses of ill fame in close proximity to those beer-houses had largely increased of late. By a defect in the law the police were powerless in preventing crime which might originate in these beer-houses, as they were not authorized to enter those house. He was aware that the Bill would create certain differences
 598 599
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, in reply, that in Ireland since 1853 the practice of sending Convicts to Australia or other Colonies had been discontinued. The Irish Convict system enabled the authorities to dispose of their criminals at home. Transportation had been found to be productive of very great mischief, and it was also attended with considerable expense. The present system worked satisfactorily, and the whole expense of a Convict was not more than about  £20
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON , in moving the adjournment of the House at its rising until Thursday, said, that as to-morrow was the Queen's birthday, and on Wednesday the great bulk of the Members would wish to be elsewhere, probably there might be some difficulty in getting a sufficient attendance, and it would therefore be more generally agreeable that the House should adjourn over.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : My hon. Friend the Under Secretary of State answered the Question because it referred to a departmental matter, with which he was, of course, much more conversant than I. With regard to the Question now put, my hon. Friend has stated that the armistice distinctly provides that no contributions should be levied after the signature of the armistice, and that all things required and had by the Prussian and Austrian troops
 594
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH : I beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether there is any truth in the report that it is intended to diminish the strength of Her Majesty's Forces now serving in Canada by withdrawing two battalions of Guards now serving there?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : I stated, Sir, last Friday evening, that it was intended to bring home two battalions of the Guards and one battalion of the Military Train, without relief. As I believe, the chief reasons for this arrangement are that a very heavy expenditure is now being incurred in the hire of buildings for the use and accommodation of the troops in Canada, and it is very desirable to reduce that expenditure as soon as practicable. It is also thought advisable to give an opportunity to Sir Fenwick Williams to concentrate the troops in Canada, which are now scattered over a long line of frontier. But, further, it is considered that by keeping such a number of Guards in Canada it would be impossible to form a brigade of Guards at home sufficient for service, in case they should be required to serve in any other quarter.
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the Communications made by the American Minister, Mr. Burlinghame, at Pekin, in a Despatch to Mr. Seward, the Secretary of State at Washington, and dated the 20th June, 1863, respecting the joint policy to be pursued in China by the Ministers of England, Russia, France, and America, is substantially in accord with a Despatch addressed to Earl Russell, and a Copy of which Sir Frederick Bruce gave to the American Minister; and, whether a Reply has been given to Sir F. Bruce's Despatch, and in what sense?
 MR. GRANT DUFF  said, that the Question which was submitted to-night did not turn upon the past history of Poland. It was simply whether the House should or should not agree to the Resolutions which the hon. Gentleman had put upon the paper. With regard to the Resolutions, they might agree as individuals that they were correct; but it was another question whether the House of Commons would do wisely in giving them their solemn sanction. He could not see what good could emanate from the passing of those Resolutions. He was told on his visit even by Polish authorities, that the insurrection was extinguished, and every day it was attempted to be excited only gave Russia
 657
 MR. PEEL  said, he could not help thinking that the House was likely to be disappointed if it expected any results from the Committee proposed by the hon. Member. The Committee of 1860 examined the most vulnerable of those Estimates—Class 1. They took evidence, but they were unable to agree upon any other recommendation than that the First Commissioner of Works should be a permanent officer of the Civil Service. In 1848 a Committee sat on the subject of miscellaneous expenditure, and they came to the conclusion that the best security for economy was the existence of a Government honestly bent on retrenchment and reduction. Any proposal, however, to refer the Estimates of the current year to a Committee was a step in the wrong direction, because the Committee, and not the Government, would in that case be regarded as responsible for the Estimates. The hon. Gentleman had not got over the difficulty as to time by limiting his proposal to the Votes comprised in Class 2. That class embraced all the Civil Departments of the Government, and if a Committee upstairs were to direct its attention to the reductions which should be made in those establishments, it was obvious that the inquiry could not be terminated before it would be necessary to pass the Estimates. He thought the hon. Gentleman ought to acknowledge that there was a reduction in the Estimates of this year, and that it was
 665
 MR. CORRY  said, it had been the constant effort of the various Departments for many years to make the Estimates as intelligible as possible, but that he never
 681 "Speaking from my own experience (on a foreign station), I spent more than the naval pay and allowances every year of the whole period of my command. The Portsmouth command is very expensive, from the increasing number of persons of rank and position— foreigners and others—who look for some notice from the commander-in-chief, and who, in many instances, are introduced by letter or otherwise to him. I endeavoured to keep expenditure within reasonable limits, but during the year when I had the pay and allowances of vice-admiral, my naval receipts
 682 s d s d s d "You surprise me by telling me that the proposed addition to the table money of commanders-in-chief does not include any advantage to those serving at the ports at home, as I apprehend those are the very officers whose tables are necessarily the most expensive, although in India the article of consumption cost more." "I think the intended increase of table money on foreign stations very necessary, and by no means too much; but if it be required there, it is much more called for at the ports, where it is impossible to get out of the way by going to sea, and where you are continually called on to exercise hospitality which is unavoidable, and more especially so at Portsmouth and Plymouth. While in command abroad my expenses during my three years exceeded my pay and allowances by £1,200." "I object altogether to the principle on which our commanders-in-chief are paid, and the most remarkable inconsistency is at Portsmouth. I was very unexpectedly nominated to that command, and although my duties, as well as what was expected of me, were precisely the same as if I had been a full admiral, and Royal and other personages were constantly sent to partake of my hospitality, yet, because I was only a vice-admiral nearly £500 a year, including allowances, was cut off my salary, and the result was that at the termination of my command, I was several thousand pounds out of pocket." 683 s s
 CAPTAIN TALBOT  said, he thought it had been shown by his hon. and gallant Friend (Sir John Hay) that admirals who were formerly in the receipt of batta and prize money, &c., were now placed in an inferior position to that which they formerly occupied. Their position was also inferior to that of the admirals in other services. He lamented that the noble Lord had not proposed some increase of pay for the masters. The noble Lord said he looked upon them as an invaluable class of officers, but it was extraordinary that in raising the rank of those officers he did not place them in a position to enjoy the rank that was given to them. He trusted that the Admiralty would give their best consideration to this subject, and also to the recommendation of the Select Committee of last year, that the pay of a lieutenant on full pay should be increased with length of service. Look at the position in which lieutenants on full pay were now placed. The noble Lord said that if an officer had a love or zeal for the service he would become a gunnery lieutenant or first lieutenant. [Lord CLARENCE PAGET: I said they can get up to it.] But the number of gunnery lieutenants and first lieutenants was limited. The consequence of the full pay not increasing with length of service was, that senior lieutenants of long service would in very many instances be receiving
 689 s s d s d s s s d s d s d s d s 690
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he had no objection to the Vote, but was decidedly opposed to the mode in which it was proposed to apply it. The masters were a most valuable class, whose claims he had repeatedly urged on the attention of the Government; but although he had always been promised that their case would be considered, they were now passed over entirely. Paymasters, who had charge only of accounts and provisions, received double the pay of masters, who were responsible for the safe navigation of the ship; yet the former were by this scheme to receive additional pay, while the latter were passed over in silence. He begged to move that the Chairman report Progress, in order that the scheme might be reconsidered, and he hoped when next it I was produced they would find it embraced the case of the masters and other points that had been urged in the course of the debate.
 MR. CORRY  begged to explain that his meaning, when he spoke, was that all classes of lieutenants should be paid according to their service.
 CAPTAIN TALBOT : The reserved captains on the "F.G." list.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he would withdraw his Motion for reporting Progress if a pledge were given that justice would be done to the masters.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, he must object, to proceeding at that late hour of the night with the Bill, and, therefore, he would beg to move that the Chairman do report Progress.
 MR. NEWDBGATE  considered that some restriction ought to be placed on the granting of beer licences, but was unable to say how far the clause would apply to brewers.
 LORD NAAS  said, that if a brewer's licence allowed the selling of beer by retail it would apply to him; but that was a point on which the Committee were not informed.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, he thought the Bill a very inadequate, a very useless, and, in some clauses, a very objectionable one. He should persevere with his Motion to report Progress.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  begged to explain the objects of the Bill. One of the Militia Acts contained a clause that every deserter should be punished by a fine of 40 s s
 MR. C. P. BERKELEY  said, that if the Admiralty would examine that matter, and take into consideration the other officers who were nearly in the same position as those concerned in this Vote, it would see that it could not stop there, but must go a good deal further.
 MR. C. P. BERKELEY  said, he must complain that a small class of officers would receive no increase of pay by one of the arrangements proposed; but would, on the contrary, rather be deprived of a portion of what was already allotted to them. He alluded to the captains in the harbour ships, the  Excellent Britannia Excellent Britannia 684
 MR. C. P. BERKELEY  said, that the noble Lord had either misunderstood him, or was not acquainted with the real state of the case. It was proposed that these particular captains when they became retired rear-admirals should receive the same pay as the active rear-admirals—namely, 25 s
 MR. LYGON  said, there appeared to be a startling discrepancy of opinion between the right hon. Baronet and the Attorney General for Ireland, and that was a good reason for reporting Progress, in order that those two right hon. Gentlemen might come to some accord as to the real effect of the clause.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he wished to know what would be the scope of the inquiry before the Committee. The Bill was very important, as it proposed to confer great additional powers on justices of the peace, and to diminish the powers of the ratepayers. The Act had not worked well in that part of the country with which he was connected, and he was anxious to know whether the Select Committee would be empowered to take any evidence.
 MR. WILBRAHAM EGERTON  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether any information has been received of the imprisonment of the British Envoy to Bhootan;
 634
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that the officers who had been placed on the retired list under the Order in Council of 1860 were the second and third class of captains. They received by the present proposal as much as rear-admirals on the active list, but the latter could rise to the rank of vice and full admiral with corresponding rise in pay which they were debarred from.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he thought it scarcely consistent that in bringing forward so large a scheme as the present he should be taunted with wishing to stifle all the fair claims of the navy. He should be extremely happy if ever it fell to his lot to propose an increase of the pay of the navy, but at present he was doing all that lay in his power. His hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Wakefield (Sir John Hay), through misreading the paper which he had made the subject of comment, fell into two unintentional mistakes. The commanders of the second class, it was true, received 10 s
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Yes; £1 abroad, and 10 s s d d 687 688
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, the case of those officers had been disposed of. The boon had been granted to them.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that by the Act of Parliament of 1859 all persons above the age of sixty were superannuated without any medical certificate; therefore, it was implied that persons above the age of sixty, unless reported to be still fully equal to the performance of their duties, were all liable to be superannuated. In the case of the dockyards, there had of late years been great stagnation owing to the establishments being so full, and there being so few vacancies amongst them, that there was scarcely an opportunity for the hired men getting on in the establishments. It was also felt very desirable in the dockyards that, in order to insure the great works being carried on with vigour and economy, that after a certain age all persons of the artificer class, no matter how worthy, should be superannuated, and the Admiralty decided that after the age of sixty all inferior officers and all artificers and labourers in Her Majesty's naval establishments should be superannuated, unless they were specially recommended by the superintendents as being men of very active habits and still thoroughly able to their work; but on arriving at the age of sixty-five they would be superannuated as a matter of course. This rule had been applied, not to Devonport alone, but to all the dockyards without any exception; and he could assure the hon. Gentleman that wherever superintendents of yards had stated that certain individuals were of peculiarly active habits, and were still able to do a-good day's work, if they were under sixty-five, they had had an extended time in the service; but in all cases all persons on arriving at the age of sixty-five were superannuated as a matter of course.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : That is not so.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Sir, in moving the supplementary Estimate for the pay of the navy, I need preface the proposal with but very few remarks. Hon. Gentlemen are, I believe, aware that from time to time there have been very strong representations made, both in this House and out of doors, as to the fact that the pay of the officers and seamen of some classes in the navy is not so generous or so adequate as it ought to be. Sir, we know that the navy have of late years had fewer opportunities for distinguishing themselves and enriching themselves with prize money than they had during the great European war; and from that circumstance, the general rewards which fall to the lot of the navy are certainly very inferior to what they used to be in the days of our forefathers. There are two sources of emolument which are almost wholly lost to the navy in modern days. The one is, as I have said, prize money; the other is the freight that was formerly received on the carriage of gold. In former times, we all took our turns on the principal foreign stations of carrying freights, by which a considerable addition was made to our incomes, but that system has now almost wholly disappeared. It is true we still get a certain amount of advantage occasionally from the capture of pirates and slavers, but, generally speaking, as appeared from the evidence taken before the Committee on Promotion and Retirement last year, the emoluments of the navy are very inferior to what they were in the days of our forefathers. This matter has not been wholly overlooked. From time to time we have made considerable additions to the pay of various classes, but still I believe I am only expressing the opinion of the Committee to which I have referred, when I say that the pay of many branches of the navy is not adequate. The Committee was not permitted by the order of reference to make any statement of that nature to the House, but every one of its members felt that this subject would again be brought under the notice of Parliament. Among the recommendations of the Committee was one for reducing the number of certain classes of officers. That recommendation we are now prepared to carry into
 668 s s s s 669 670 s 671 s d s d s d s d s s d s s s s s s 672 s s s s 673 bonâ fide 674
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : We propose to create twelve chief warrant officers, twelve chief boatswains, and twelve chief carpenters; making altogether an addition of thirty-six chief warrant officers.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  begged to point out the clear distinction which existed between the case of those captains whose retirement on the reserved list was voluntary, and those whose retirement was compulsory.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he could only repeat that they had granted them the boon. The officers now in question were those who retired under the Order in Council of 1860.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  hoped that some explanation would be afforded in regard to the case of the reserved captains referred to by the hon. and gallant Member for Beverley (Colonel Edwards).
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he had been long of opinion that the present system of dealing with the Estimates, especially those of the Civil Service, was most unsatisfactory. The number of hon. Members attending when those Estimates were under discussion was always limited, and still fewer took any part in the discussions upon them. It was too late to move that the Estimates generally for the present year be referred to a Select Committee, which would be the most satisfactory method of investigating them; but there were one or two special classes as to which an exceptional course might and ought to be taken. It should be remembered that whatever increase took place on the annual Estimates, except with regard to exceptional items like the Prince of Wales's marriage, or the monument to the Prince Consort, became a permanent source of increase. That increase had jumped up £50,000 during the present year. It was very desirable that the various items should undergo preliminary examination by a Select Committee. He confidently felt that the time had come when the House ought to adopt a different system than the present for the examination of the Estimates. A Committee of the Whole House scarcely ever carried a reduction in the Estimates, though he believed that they did much good in discussing the Estimates generally, yet it was very difficult to follow up such in minute particulars in a large assembly. If a Select Committee were appointed to examine Class No. 2, they might in the meantime in Committee of the Whole House proceed with the other classes. It might be objected that such a Committee would diminish Ministerial responsibility, but that responsibility was a perfect myth, because under the present system, as soon as the House adopted the Estimates, the responsibility of the Government was at an end. He should conclude by moving—
 "That the Miscellaneous Civil Service Estimates, Class 2, laid upon the table of the House, be referred to a Select Committee to examine the same in reference to the past expenditure for the Civil Services, and to report to the House any reductions, better arrangement, or other particulars connected with that branch of the Public Expenditure which in their opinion deserve the attention of the House when the said Estimates are under their consideration.
 MR. LAYARD  said, the hon. Gentleman opposite undoubtedly stated that Austria was one of the three parties agreeing to the despatch. But, in point of fact, it was Austria, and not England, which objected to a particular passage. The hon. Gentleman twitted him, over and over again, with failing to produce the despatch. But it was not in his power to produce a despatch which had never been acted upon nor communicated to the Russian Government, and which had been cancelled, and
 662
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, that he had to state that considerable misapprehension appeared to exist with regard to what had been called the suppressed Despatch, and which the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter) seemed to think was an agreement or memorandum signed by the representatives of the several Powers mentioned in the Question. He was not exactly aware to which Despatch Mr. Burlinghame alluded, as the date of the Despatch was not given, and neither had Sir Frederick Bruce informed the Government that he had ever communicated such a Despatch to Mr. Burlinghame. But a Despatch, which seemed by its date to be the one in question, had been received at the Foreign Office, and the only objection to laying that Despatch upon the table was that it contained matter relating to other Powers which it would not be for the public convenience to publish. If, however, the hon. Gentleman would allow him to give extracts from the Despatch, he would be prepared to supply him with all the information which he could desire to obtain. He (Mr. Layard) had himself quoted a paragraph from Mr. Burlinghame's Despatch, for the purpose of showing the policy which Her Majesty's Government had pursued and intended to continue to pursue in China, was in accordance with that advocated by the United States and other Powers. With regard to Sir Frederick Bruce, Her Majesty's Government had always felt the most complete confidence in
 636
 MR. LAYARD  said, he would not detain the House many minutes, but he wished to set hon. Members right on one or two matters of fact. The hon. Gentleman opposite had used very strong language, but it was easy to do so when speaking without any sense of responsibility. If he were asked to point out what the Government ought to have done, or what he would have done himself in the same position, he doubted very much whether the hon. Gentleman would have carried his views to the extent of going to war with Russia on account of Poland.
 MR. LAYARD  said, there was no other meaning to be deduced from his arguments. Except to take up arms on behalf of Poland, there was nothing the Government had not done. Over and over again, in the case of Denmark, of Poland, and of Italy, the Government had been twitted with not going to war in support of their views. The Government, on the contrary, believed that the country was not prepared for war, and did not wish for it; and the country, he was sure, gave the Government credit for keeping them out of war. As regarded the despatch so much relied on, it was perfectly true that England, France, and Austria had been acting together in the matter of Poland, and that the joint despatch was prepared which had been read by the hon. Gentleman; but though the French Government agreed to that despatch, the hon. Gentleman was completely mistaken in stating that the Austrian Government had ever agreed to it.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD , in reply, said, he had received no public despatch upon the subject referred to by the hon. Member. The only information which had reached him was contained in a private letter from Sir John Lawrence. He had, however, no reason to think that Mr. Eden had been imprisoned, although he was subjected to some species of insult, with the particulars of which he was not at present accurately acquainted. Mr. Eden arrived safely at Darjeeling on the 12th of last month, and he found on his way home that some of the chiefs were preparing to take up arms to rescue him in case he had been detained.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, in reply, that i on the 2nd of June there would be a transfer of the protectorate from Her; Majesty to the King of the Hellenes. Sir Henry Storks had not published any Constitution, either democratic or otherwise, with a view to the future Constitution of the Ionian Islands. But Sir Henry Storks had received a request from the Government of the King of the Hellenes that certain electoral lists might be prepared for their use. Those lists were accordingly drawn up, and would be found available by the Ionian authorities. He had only to add that Her Majes-
 635
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, there was no general principle to be discussed at that stage, and he trusted, therefore, that the second reading would be agreed to. If the Act had not been successful in the quarter referred to by his hon. Friend the Member for South Northumberland (Mr. Liddell), it was because too large districts had been created.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  begged to suggest that the words of the English Act should he adopted. The Bill ought clearly to be confined to common brewers who sold beer by retail.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he objected to the measure on the ground that it would establish a different law between the two countries.
 MR. THOMPSON  said, he hoped the right hon. Baronet would not press the second reading of the Bill at that late hour, as it would involve very important questions.
 COLONEL EDWARDS  did not know what the list was called, but he referred to a meritorious class of officers who were put upon the reserved list a few years ago, and not allowed to rise to their flag as other officers did. They were excluded from attaining the rank which they otherwise would have attained in consideration of some paltry remuneration that they would never have accepted if the matter had been fairly left to them.
 COLONEL EDWARDS  must say he was under a very different impression to that. He did not understand that redress had been given to those reserved captains, otherwise he should not have alluded to their case. Perhaps the noble Lord would
 691
 COLONEL EDWARDS  considered that the reserved captains had been treated with great injustice, and he hoped they would yet be placed in the position they deserved.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, he must remind the hon. Member that the House having negatived the Amendment, and having affirmed that "the words proposed to be left out stand part of the Question," there was no room for the Motion of the hon. Member. The Question before the House at present was that he "do now leave the Chair."
 MR. HENNESSY  said that, after what had passed, he did not wish to press the Motion to a division.
 MR. HENNESSY : I must beg to disclaim the statement. I stated that the joint despatch was agreed to, supported by the French Government, and sent to St. Petersburg.
 MR. HENNESSY , who had given notice to move the following Resolutions on the subject of Poland:—
 "That the negotiations of Her Majesty's Government respecting Poland have not terminated in a satisfactory manner." "That it appears from the Papers laid before Parliament that the conditions on which the British Government agreed to acknowledge the dominion of Russia in Poland have not been fulfilled by Russia." "That this House is of opinion that Her Majesty's Government is no longer bound to recognise the sovereignty of Russia in Poland." 637 638 "Their Majesties the Empress of All the Russias and the King of Prussia mutually engage in the most solemn manner, under any circumstances, and in all cases, that if any one, whoever he may be, should attempt to establish an hereditary kingdom in Poland, their Majesties of Russia and Prussia will not permit it; but, on the contrary, will avert, repel, and annul in all ways, and by all means, projects so unjust and so dangerous to the neighbouring Powers by acting together, joining their forces, and even resorting to arms, if circumstances require it." 639 de jure 640 "Your re-construction is defined by solemn treaties; it is sanctioned by the Constitutional Chart. The inviolability of those external engagements and of that fundamental law insures for Poland henceforward an honourable place among foreign nations." 641 "The decree of 1831, although it constitutes to this very day the fundamental law for the Kingdom of Poland, and ought thus to be binding on the inhabitants of that country, has never yet seen 'a commencement of execution.' It may be said that since 1831, without any regard being paid to the pledges of the decree, the kingdom has been completely delivered over to the bureaucracy, and has remained exclusively under the thumb of the officials, without any participation whatever of the inhabitants, who were thus placed without the pale of the administrative hierarchy." "Nevertheless, it must be added that such a result depends above all on the good faith with which the measures indicated are executed, for the country is radically imbued with the sense of law, and will appreciate the confidence bestowed upon it." 642 "The object of this despatch is to call your attention, and to engage you to fix that of the British Government, upon a question which excites, and with justice, the solicitude of the Emperor, and to which, doubtless, the Cabinet of London does not attach less interest. I mean Poland. The first article of the Treaty of Vienna, 1815, in declaring the union of the duchy of Warsaw to the Russian Empire, provided that it should be unchangeably united thereto by its constitution under the name of the Kingdom of Poland. Even this was, doubtless, but a very incomplete reparation for the injustice of the partitions which annihilated Poland. Still it was an act of homage paid by Russia to the indelible principle of Polish nationality; and the Kingdom of Poland, with its constitution, with its distinct administration, and its army entirely national, in reality possessed guarantees which were wanting in the other dismembered provinces. Contrary to the promises arid to the formal assurances of the Emperor Nicholas, the Kingdom or Poland, incorporated with Russia, has since been nothing more than a province of that empire. The treaties which had constituted its political existence were openly ignored. Nevertheless, the Treaty of June 9, 1815, was then, as it is to-day, an act essentially European, by which all the contracting parties are virtually bound towards each other, and each of them towards all the rest. France and England protested against such an infraction of the public law of Europe, and if for
 643 casus belli "Lord Cowley has read to me a despatch from his Government, in reply to that which I commissioned you to deliver to Lord Clarendon on the subject of the situation of the Kingdom of Poland, in its relation to the treaties which determined its legal condition in 1815, and to the eventual basis of the future peace. The Principal Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs declares that, not only would the English Cabinet desire, like ourselves, that the obligations contracted by Russia towards Poland should be fulfilled, but that it would see in the independence even of that country the surest barrier for Europe against the invasions of the Russian Power. The only question in the eyes of Her Majesty's Government is, to know if the moment is opportune for entering into an engagement not to treat with Russia, except on the condition that she carries out the stipulations which concern Poland in the Vienna treaties. He comes to the conclusion that, without tying our hands or binding ourselves to any particular line of conduct, it is enough for us to agree that we will take advantage of events, within the measure of the possible, in favour of Poland." "I have spoken to the principal Secretary of State on the contents of your Excellency's despatch, dated March 26, I pointed out that if in a European negotiation, having for its object the re-establishment of peace with Russia, no mention whatever should be made of the breach of treaties of which the Russian Government was guilty in assimilating the Kingdom of Poland to the Empire of Russia—a breach against which we had protested—our silence might be treated as an implied sanction, and as an abandonment of our previous protests. The principal Secretary of State acknowledged the full value of this observation, and admitted that at an opportune time it would be desirable to take some steps of a nature to support the opinion previously expressed by France
 644 "Do not, in the interest of the Poles, bring the subject forward in the Congress; for I can tell you nothing there, nor admit your right to interrogate me. My answer, therefore, must be disheartening to the Poles, and the Emperor may perhaps think it a matter of dignity to postpone what he intends to do." "I am resolved that the order established by my father shall be maintained. Therefore, gentlemen, above all things let there be no dreams— no dreams. The welfare of Poland depends upon her entire absorption into Russia. What my father did was therefore well done. I will uphold it. My reign shall be a continuation of his." 645 646 The Times "Russia and Poland.—The three despatches in reply to Prince Gortschakoff from Austria, France, and Great Britain will probably reach St. Petersburg this day, and will be presented at once to Prince Gortschakoff. England and Austria objected to an identical note, as proposed by France, because they considered it would too much resemble a menace to Russia. As it is, each Power has contented itself with replying to the arguments addressed to it by Russia." The Times 647 "I do not propose to recur to-day to the considerations which pleaded in favour of a complete identity of language in the replies of the three Courts to the communications of Russia. Our reasons—I have pleasure in saying so—have been thoroughly appreciated at Vienna; and I consider it my duty to acknowledge that it is not the fault of the Austrian Government that our proposition was not adopted. It was inspired, not only by the desire of augmenting the authority of our proceedings in giving to the Russian Cabinet a proof of the unity of views, which it has seemed to doubt, but, also, by the sentiment of the peculiar situation of Austria, to whom we thought it right to guarantee that we intended to share with her the consequences of a common policy. Our proposition not having been accepted in London, I have prepared the separate despatch, which our Ambassador at St. Petersburg will be instructed to deliver to Prince Gortschakoff. I enclose it herein, with the English draft, which has been communicated to me by Lord Cowley. The conclusion of these two documents reproduces the last paragraphs of the draft originally proposed by the Vienna Cabinet. We desire that at least this partial identity may be maintained." "We have not changed our opinion concerning the European character of the Polish question, and concerning the rights which the general interest and treaties confer upon us. We deplore the circumstances that three Powers like England, Austria, and France, have not resolved on giving to their proceedings all the efficacy desirable, and the responsibility of assuring to their opinion the irresistible authority of a collective resolution does not rest on our shoulders." 648 casus belli 649 de facto 650 651
 MR. HENNESSY  begged to ask the right hon. Baronet whether the Bill did not include brewers?
 MR. HENNESSY  said, the clause would apply to brewers, which, in his opinion, would be very vexatious to such men as Messrs, Guinness and other respectable brewers. He bogged to move a proviso to the effect that nothing contained in the clause should apply to any person holding a brewer's licence. He felt convinced that there could be no intention of applying the vexatious penalties and prohibitions provided by the clause to the trade of brewing.
 MR. MAGUIRE  begged to suggest the postponement of the clause, but as the Bill was very much wanted in Ireland he hoped it would be proceeded with. He did not think the great brewers should be treated with any indignity.
 MR. HASSARD  said, the evil against which the Bill was directed arose only in the case of beer-house keepers, and could not apply to brewers.
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  begged to suggest that the beer-houses should he placed under strict police regulations and surveillance, so that if those regulations were violated the licence could be taken away. That would be found sufficient for every purpose. He objected to placing in the hands of a few justices the power of preventing persons carrying on what might be considered legitimate trade.
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  said, he understood that the object of the Bill was to place under police surveillance those houses which, under the plea of selling beer, retailed spirits, and that was a purpose which Irish Members would be most ready to support. That clause, however, went further than that, and he was of opinion that it would improve the Bill to strike out the clause altogether.
 MR. SMOLLETT  said, he would beg; to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, When the British Protectorate of the Ionian Republic will absolutely cease; and, whether or not the present Lord High Commissioner, Sir Henry Storks, has published an Act, dated the 22nd April, 1864, introducing into the Seven Islands a purely democratic Constitution based upon universal suffrage, the right of voting being conferred upon every inhabitant above the age of twenty-one years, persons under examination for felony and others previously convicted being alone excepted; if so, whether the action of Sir Henry Storks in this matter has been sanctioned by the Colonial Office, and whether the arrangement made is considered by Her Majesty's Government to be calculated to consolidate the Greek Kingdom, and is likely to promote the political security of the King of the Hellenes?
 MR. R. W. DUFF  said, he approved generally of the proposals of the Government, but regretted that they did not go far enough. He could not understand how the noble Lord had overlooked the case of the masters, and hoped that their services would still be recognized by the making of some addition to their pay. If a system of age retirement was adopted at all it ought to be fully carried out, and not confined to a single rank, so that while a captain should be retired at sixty an admiral might remain on the active list till he was a hundred. It would no doubt cost a considerable sum so to extend the system, but he believed that the money would be well spent. The hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. Williams) said that if money was given to one service it ought to be given to all; but that argument would not apply until the pay of the navy had been raised to an equality with those of the army and the Civil Service, to both of which it was at present inferior.
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, he very much questioned whether the Act applied to brewers at all. It only extended, he thought, to licensed beer-houses.
 MR. O'HAGAN  said, he had never considered that the penalties under the clause could apply to the great brewers.
 MR. SCULLY  said, that while standing below the Bar of that House he had heard a statement which had brought him back to his place. He was told that there was to be no division upon the Motion, but he took occasion to say that he should certainly have a division. He, like other hon. Members, had received a circular asking him to attend the House for a certain division. He had given up every engagement in order that he might be present, and he thought that they ought to have a division. if division there could be upon such absolute truisms as were expressed in those Resolutions.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  begged to move a Resolution au-
 696
 MR. FERRAND  said, there were many widows of warrant officers living in the poorhouse of Devonport Union. If those persons had the pensions which they enjoyed formerly restored to them, that disgrace would be removed from the country.
 MR. FERRAND  said, he wished, before Mr. Speaker left the Chair, to put a question to the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty. A short time ago certain rules and regulations were issued for the control and management of the dockyards. One of those rules referred to the superannuation of officers over sixty years of age. It was reported that that rule was to be stringently applied in the dockyard at Devonport, and that all officers there over sixty would have to retire, whereas at Ports mouth, Chatham, and, he believed, other dockyards, a certain number of officers over sixty were to be retained. He wished
 666
 MR. FERRAND  said, he was then to understand that there would be thirty-six new creations in a body of 1,200 warrant officers. What the warrant officers wished brought under the notice of the House was that they desired an increase of pay for increased services. They complained that at present an officer of twenty years in the first class received no more pay than one just promoted to that grade. They further complained of the maximum retiring pension, and prayed for increased pay instead, and also an increase in the widows' pensions of the first class, the present practice being that the widow who had been longest in the first class received no more than the widow of the third-class officer who had been promoted to a warrant officer. They requested him to place their claims before the Committee with due respect, believing that they were so moderate and reasonable that their justice would be admitted. He was delighted to hear the noble Lord say he had arrived at the conclusion that an increase of pay should be given to the officers of the navy, on account of the large increase of pay that had taken place
 677
 MR. FERRAND  said, he wished to bring under the notice of the Committee the claims of the warrant officers. He had received an address, signed by a large number of warrant officers, complaining of the stinted amount of their salaries, and of the small increase proposed to be made to their pay. They also commented upon the manner in which the Lords of the Admiralty proposed to create twelve new warrant officers of each class.
 MR. FERRAND  begged to ask whether an order had not been recently issued and sent down to Devonport, directing that all the men above sixty, without any exception, should be superannuated? He had been told that several men, between the age of sixty and sixty-five, although well able to perform their duties, would be superannuated.
 COLONEL WILLIAM STUART  said, he could not see any reason why a law should be enacted for Ireland differing from that which existed in England. The beer-houses
 695
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, the Question before the Committee was the Vote of £55,256. He wished to know what necessity existed for the proposed increase of pay at a time when we were in a state of profound peace? As to the bands on board ship which had been mentioned, he believed they were totally unknown before the battles of the Nile and Trafalgar. All the increase was proposed to be for the officers, there was none for the hard-working sailor.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he thought the reason given for not submitting those Estimates to a Select Committee was most incorrect as regarded the responsibility of the Government, because when the Estimates were agreed to, that responsibility was taken away. He hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would turn his attention to the subject, and direct that the Estimates should be laid before the House before the 1st of April in each year. He begged to call attention to the great inconvenience of voting money on account.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he thought the object of the Bill, which was to impose some restrictions on the low class of beer-houses in Ireland, a proper one; but he conceived that the present clause went too far, for it would compel not only ordinary beer-house keepers, but brewers and the vendors of table beer, who could now sell beer not to be drunk on the premises, under an Excise licence, to apply to the magistrates for a licence.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, that the hon. Baronet had, in his opinion, wholly failed to show a sufficient reason for the enactment of that clause.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, there was no licence of the kind in England, and he hoped Irish Members would resist its introduction into Ireland.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, the argument used by the noble Lord, that great injury would be done to the Poles if they were deprived of the diplomatic protection afforded by the Treaty of Vienna had been refuted a thousand times by every act of cruelty which the Russian Government, not withstanding all remonstrances, inflicted on Poland. The Russian Government had shown in the plainest manner by their conduct that that protection was utterly worthless in their eyes.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  begged to move that the Bill be referred to a Select Committee. It would be desirable not to instruct the Committee to take evidence, because the Committee could, if they thought it necessary, apply to the House for permission to hear witnesses with respect to any particular provision.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he rose to move the second reading of the Bill. It comprised a great many details which would require to be considered in a Select Committee, and the discussion could then be taken on the Report. He thought, therefore, that discussion on its details should he waived for the present.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, the "F.G." list had not been dealt with at all, and formed a question that must be raised again. The grievance of the lieutenants in respect to leave, demanded attention. Those officers asked for a month's leave in every year, which was a small boon. They were now practically isolated from their friends, even when on the home station.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he wished it to be distinctly understood that, although he should agree to the Vote, he did not approve the scheme which had been brought before the House, which he regarded as totally inadequate, delusive in itself, and, in fact, a complete and perfect sham. Since he had been in the House he had never seen a more awkwardly framed paper than that which had been laid upon the table to explain it, and nothing could more dispose him to regret the retirement of the hon. Member for Halifax (Mr. Stansfeld) from the Admiralty than the appearance of such a wretched attempt at exposition. When he, three years ago, carried against the Government the appointment of a Select Committee to investigate the claims of the navy, he was told that he had done a most unconstitutional act; but on the 9th of February, 1773, Viscount Howe presented a petition from captains in the navy, praying for a reasonable increase of their half-pay; and it was, by a majority of 154 to 45, referred to a Committee. Hon. Members on the Opposition side of the House had always contended that this question ought to be dealt with by the appointment of a Royal Commission; and the incongruities of this scheme were so numerous and so important, that such an inquiry could not long be refused. It was quite impossible that flag officers on foreign sta-
 685 d 686
 SIR JOHN HAY  begged to ask whether he was to understand that they received both allowances?
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he must congratulate the noble Lord on having introduced this proposal to raise the amount of the allowances to officers, for the condition of naval officers up to the present time had been so impoverished that it was absolutely necessary that the House should take some means for making the service more remunerative. He did not concur with him, however, in thinking that the distribution of the additional £60,000 was the best that could be adopted. The scale of pay to the officers of the navy was a matter which must emanate from the Ministers of the Crown. It was not a constitutional course for an independent Member to move an increase of pay; but he concurred in what had fallen from the hon. Baronet the Member for Devonshire (Sir Lawrence Palk), with respect to the pay of the masters. The case of the masters had been inquired into by the Admiralty, and had been before a Committee of that House; and though the justice of their claim could not be denied, no allowance was made to them in the present arrangement. It would have been more satisfactory if the particulars of the pay and allowances to flag officers had been set out on the paper which was in the hands of hon. Members, The increase in the table allowances to flag officers on foreign stations would not in all cases be sufficient; and instead of being fixed at £547, it would have been better to apportion the amount of the addition to the expenditure on the particular station. There were three very expensive and at the same time very important stations—the Mediterranean, the East Indies, and the West Indies and North America. It must be for the interest of the country that the best men should be sent to those stations; and yet he knew that certain officers had been requested to accept those commands, and had declined to do so because the pay and allowances were insufficient. He had made that statement on a former occasion, and had been met with a contradiction. Technically he was wrong. He supposed there had been no case in which any one of those commands had been refused by an officer after receipt of the official letter offering him the command; but the custom was for the First Lord to ascertain through his private secretary the wishes of an officer whom he desired to appoint to a com-
 678 679 s s 680
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  begged to second the Motion. He thought that every
 664
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, he had listened with great attention to the speech of the noble Lord, and was filled with disappointment that no allusion had been made throughout the whole of that speech to a class of officers upon which the safety of the navy of England in a great measure depended, and who he had yet to learn had done anything to deprive them of the benefits which were to be conferred on their more fortunate brother officers—he alluded to the masters of the Royal Navy. That class of officers considered themselves very ill-used. In the year 1824 an Admiralty memorandum was issued authorizing the admission of second-class volunteers, and at the same time forming a new rating open to the merchant service; but instead of training those officers as seamen and navigators, every possible obstacle was, as a rule, thrown in their way, and they were sternly told that they were never to receive any higher pay than that of masters. That order remained in force seven or eight years, and brought many promising young men into the navy, but they soon retired in disgust. That was the first attempt at introducing a class of officers from the merchant service into the Royal Navy. In the Baltic campaigns of 1854 and 1855 the masters were again called into action, and before landing at Bomarsund a consultation of the masters serving in the fleet was held, and to their exertions our success was in a great measure due, as he had abundant evidence to prove. He did not wish to
 675 Cyclops 676
 SIR MATTHEW RIDLEY  said, the Bill would require very mature consideration. He thought that it would be satis-
 693
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, it was impossible to make any distinction between respectable and disreputable brewers. He understood that there was no such class in Dublin as vendors of table beer at three halfpence a quart. If that clause were not adopted, it was the opinion of tin police that the Bill would be perfectly valueless.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said it did. It was meant to apply to all persons selling beer not to be drunk on the premises. He could not suppose that a respectable brewer would have any objection to send his clerk to the magistrates to obtain such a licence.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, the subject had been well considered by the Government and he must adhere to the clause as it stood. No doubt the clause would apply to such establishments as the Messrs. Guinness's, but it was impossible to draw a distinction between one class of traders and another.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he thought it right to tell the Committee that the Bill did apply to such brewers as Messrs. Guinness. If the Committee were of opinion that it ought not to apply to the great brewers that would be another question.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, he hoped that the House would allow him to offer a few observations, because the noble Lord at the head of the Government had made a speech which, though in some respects satisfactory, in others deserved and claimed the notice of the House. His hon. Friend the Member for the King's County (Mr. Hennessy) had made statements and referred to documents respecting which the noble Lord, addressing the House upon this important subject, had preserved the most studied silence. One statement was that in 1861 the noble Lord was asked whether, at the time of the Crimean war, any Correspondence passed between the French or Austrian Governments and Her Majesty's Government with reference to the re-constitution of the Kingdom of Poland, and the noble Lord distinctly stated in the face of the Commons of England that there was no such Correspondence. The hon. Member had that evening referred to despatches which then passed.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  desired to say that he had never contemplated anything of the kind.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD : But quoting the opinions of Her Majesty's Government, and quoting statements made by the representative of Her Majesty in Paris. The hon. Member for the King's County had quoted those despatches, and yet the noble Lord did not for a moment attempt to explain how it was that in 1861 he made a statement which the despatches which the hon. Gentleman had now read proved to have been inaccurate. [Viscount PALMERSTON: Not at all,] The noble Lord represented the question as being whether there were any despatches from Her Majesty's Government. The question was this — and a most important question it was—whether at the time of the Crimean war any propositions were made by France and Austria, or any communication addressed to Her Majesty's Government, upon the subject of the reconstruction of the Kingdom of Poland. In 1861 the noble Lord distinctly denied that; and, as far as the House could judge at that moment, that statement of the noble Lord was not accurate. That was a matter which deserved notice and required explanation, from some other Member of the Government. But there was another point to which the hon. Member for the King's County had referred. He had stated that after the speech made by the noble Earl at the head of the Foreign Office, in the course of last autumn, at Blairgowrie, a despatch was written by him, and forwarded to Paris, to Vienna, and even to St. Petersburg, and was in the hands of our Minister there, which contained the very declaration which the hon. Member now wished to have repeated by the House of Commons, but that it was withdrawn because our Ambassador was told that the consequences of its presentation might be serious. Surely such a statement was not one to be passed over in silence by the head of the Government. A declaration made upon the authority of the Cabinet, with the assent of the Sovereign, communicated to the other Powers of Europe, and then withdrawn because our Government was informed that the consequences might be serious! Was the statement of such a fact to be made in the House of Commons, in the presence of the
 659 660 and 661
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD : French despatches addressed to this country.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : To the French Ambassador, not to the Government.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : French despatches.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, though there are certainly many things in the speech of the hon. Gentleman in which I agree, yet I cannot concur with him in the conclusion at which he arrived; and I certainly shall vote for the Motion for going into Supply, instead of for the hon. Member's Resolution. I shall not follow the hon. Member through the historical details of the earlier history of the Polish nation. I agree with him in the condemnation he has passed on that great European crime, the partition of Poland; and it is almost needless to say that I concur in the censure and condemnation which he has passed on the conduct of Russia throughout the whole of her connection with Poland. On that part of his speech I might make a well known remark, but inverting the sentiment,  Quis vituperavit Herculem 652 653 654 655 656
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he hoped that, as they had been discussing this question for several hours, they would now come to a vote upon it.
 MR. CORRY  said, in reply, that the Reports of the Patriotic Fund Commission were presented to Parliament by command of Her Majesty, and therefore it did not come within his province to lay them upon the table of the House. The last Report was forwarded to the Secretary of State for War. It had, he believed, been laid before Her Majesty on the 26th of October last, and he was not aware why it was not produced at the commencement of the Session.
 MR. WHALLBY  said, he wished to call attention to the instructions issued to the Police Commissioners, as to the suppression of public meetings in the parks, and to the powers assumed by subordinate members of the Force in suppressing the meeting at Primrose Hill. One reason for his soliciting attention to the matter was, that he had last Session moved for some Returns, and introduced a Bill in reference to the police. He did not intend to discuss the questions connected with the Garibaldi meetings held in 1862 and the present year, or with the right exercised from time immemorial of discussing public matters in the public parks. But it certainly was an unfortunate coincidence that that gentleman, Garibaldi, with whom the inhabitants of London and the people of this country
 770 "Whereas numbers of persons have been in the habit of assembling and holding meetings on Sundays in Hyde Park and the other parks in the metropolis for the purpose of delivering and hearing speeches, and for the public discussion of popular and exciting topics." "And whereas such meetings are inconsistent with the purposes for which the parks are thrown open to, and used by, the public," 771 "and the excitement occasioned by such discussions at such meetings has frequently led to tumults and disorders so as to endanger the public peace; and on last Sunday and the Sunday before large numbers of persons assembled in Hyde Park for the purposes assigned, and when so assembled conducted themselves in a disorderly and riotous manner, so as to endanger the public peace, and by the use of sticks and throwing stones and other missiles, committed many violent assaults upon persons quietly passing along the parks, and interrupted the thoroughfares." "Meetings for the purpose of delivering or hearing speeches, or for the public discussion of popular and exciting topics, are not to be allowed on Sundays in any of the Parks. "It is desirable to avoid taking persons into custody, either for addressing meetings or for joining one which is prohibited." 772 "Specially cautioned not to notice any offensive or angry language used towards them; if required to interfere they are to do so with the necessary vigour to effect the object, but to show great forbearance towards all not actually engaged in the commission of illegal acts." 773
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  said, he would not express any opinion as to the legal authority of the Law Life Assurance Company over the estates in question, but would merely observe that if they were
 755 756 757 758 d 759 760
 MR. AYRTON  said, he wished to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to the inconvenience which was caused to the people of the metropolis by the course he, on behalf of the Government, had pursued upon the Question. His hon. Friend who had called attention to the subject had done so, perhaps, not in a very lucid mariner, so that its real importance might not be apparent to hon. Gentlemen. It really was a serious Question, what were the precise rights of the people in the parks of this metropolis, as great inconvenience had resulted from the people being left by the Government under a misconception upon that point. It was the duty of the Government upon a Question of the kind to state clearly and distinctly what were their views, so that the people ought to be under no misapprehension as to their rights in the parks. It was not for him to suggest what those rights were, but for the Government to state what authority they claimed over the parks and over the people who went into them for any purpose. Would the right hon. Baronet explain whether the public had a right to go into the parks and to assemble there to discuss any public question. It could not be allowed that it should be left to Sir Richard Mayne or to any subordinate person to say that people should assemble for one purpose but not for another—that 50.000 persons might assemble on Primrose Hill to plant a tree in honour of Shakespeare, but that they should not assemble there to express an opinion about Garibaldi. There must be some principle governing all meetings, but if there was to be a discretion, it must be intrusted to some other authority than Sir Richard Mayne. He wanted to know in whom that discretion was vested. Was it in the Home Secretary or in the Chief Commissioner of Works? A capricious application of the rule made for Sunday meetings to Saturday meetings left the Question in a position which involved danger to the peace of the metropolis.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether a despatch, dated the 15th of May, from M. von Bismark to Count Bernstorff, has been communicated to Her Majesty's Government? That despatch contains this passage—
 "The Government of the King considers itself, in accordance with the declaration of the 31st of January, entirely free from all the obligations of the Treaty of London of 1852, and justified in discussing any other combination independent of that treaty."
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, that the despatch had not been communicated officially to Her Majesty's Government, and the only knowledge they had of it was from our Ambassador at Berlin, who had sent them a copy taken from a newspaper.
 MR. NEATE  said, he wished to know, if it were desired to hold a peaceful meeting on Primrose Hill, to take into consideration the rejection of the £6 franchise by that House, whether permission would be given for such a purpose?
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether he is not aware that the Prussians do not pay for the supplies they exact in Jutland in money, but only by acknowledgments of the amounts in question, which amounts they intend to reckon up against the Danish Government on a future occasion, under the pretence of claims for
 721
 COLONEL EDWARDS  said, that he could not conceive why the hon. Member for
 769
 COLONEL EDWARDS : I never spoke a word.
 MR. BUTT  said, he regretted that the right hon. and learned Gentleman should consider it necessary to oppose the issuing of a Commission. The question was one of the first importance, and any measure would require the greatest care and attention on the part of the framers of it. He wished, at the same time, to bear testimony to the great ability with which his hon. Friend had introduced the subject. He had himself been instructed by his hon. Friend in the true principles which ought to regulate their legislation on the subject. He had, many years ago, laid a Bill on the table which he was perfectly ready to submit again, and there was little necessity to make any changes in it, notwithstanding all the improvements which Mr. Torrens had suggested. He did not see why a Royal Commission should not be appointed, which might inquire into the subject and report long before the next Session, and then a Select Committee could be appointed to proceed with the inquiries, and perfect any Bill that might be introduced in that House.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he would venture to suggest if another meeting should be held to discuss the departure of Gari-
 777
 MR. BRADY  said, it would be highly satisfactory to the public in Ireland if the Government would that Session lay on the table a Bill on the subject. He quite agreed that the thanks of the House and the country were due to his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Cork for his exposition of the subject. He trusted the hon. and learned Attorney General would lay a Bill on the table during the Session that it might be considered during the recess. In the county with which he was connected there was hardly a landlord with whom he had had any communica-
 745
 MR. SPEAKER  said, he had to remind the hon. Member that he had already ad dressed the House.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the hon. Member for Mallow had moved no Amendment, and therefore the Question before the House was the same as that upon which the hon. Member for Cork had already spoken.
 MR. MAGUIRE : Then, Sir, I beg to apologize.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, that he was under the impression that the hon. and gallant Gentleman had made some sneering remark upon something which he said.
 MR. MAGUIRE  looked upon the discussion as one possessing great interest, but still most bewildering in its contradictions. The right hon. Baronet, in reference to the conduct of the Law Life Assurance Company, had used language which would hardly have been Parliamentary if spoken on the floor of the House, but which, spoken in the lobby, did honour to the generous impulse of his feelings. On that occasion he designated the conduct of the Law Life Assurance Company as "atrocious," and he now gave it the highest possible praise. [Sir ROBEET PEEL: No. I deny having said so.] I think that my hon. Friend the Member for Galway must have been suffering from some strange defect of memory. [Sir ROBEET PEEL: Hear, hear!] It was, however, certain that his hon. Friend still laboured under the impression that the word had been used by the right hon. Baronet. [Mr. GREGORY: Hear, hear!] For his own part, he must say that if the description of the property given by his hon. Friend were correct, he I should be fully inclined to endorse the opinion attributed to the right hon. Baronet on the occasion referred to. Regarding it from the must favourable point if view, it did not present a very pleasing aspect. There was much boasting of the lavish employment given by this great and generous Company; but it turned out that the splendid wages of 3½ d 767 768
 MR. HASSARD  said, he trusted that the right hon, and learned Attorney General for Ireland would consider the subject well before bringing in any measure upon it. The real difficulty in relation to the conveyance and transfer of land arose from the length of time over which the search had to be made. A great deal of confusion arose from a misapprehension of the parties who wished to have a rapid transfer of land. Persons who wished to raise money upon land by way of mortgage no doubt liked to have a rapid title deduced; but it was impossible to have great rapidity and equal security at the same time. An other purpose for which a rapid transfer of land was required was for small purchases and in investments of trust funds upon land. He thought all these legitimate purposes might be attained by making it compulsory that at short recurring periods the land should pass through some tribunal like the Landed Estates Court, so that the point from which the title had to be deduced should not be remote. After an indefeasible Parliamentary title was obtained, all subsequent encumbrances on the property must be put upon the register. He did not think it was possible to make the transfer of land for permanent objects so rapid and easy as the hon. Member for Cork desired, nor could he bind himself to that hon. Gentleman's views as to the creation of land debentures. In the nature of things land could not be treated like bank-notes or railway shares. Duties attached to the ownership of land which did not exist in regard to movable chattels; and those landowners who desired to enjoy all the prestige of territorial proprietorship, and at the same time to be able to transfer their property with the same facility as railway stock, resembled persons who wished to eat their cake and have it at the same time. He hoped that before any Bill was introduced on this question, a Commission would be appointed to inquire into the best mode of registering titles; and he thought that the inquiry might be advantageously extended to England as well as Ireland, as under recent
 746
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, he bad had no communication directly or indirectly with any persons anxious to purchase property in Ireland, and he had brought the subject under the notice of the House without the smallest reference to any-such object.
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the purchase by the Law Life Assurance Company of large estates in Ireland, and the results attending this acquisition of property, and to move an Address to the Crown on the subject. Some apology was due to the House for his Motion, because, as a general rule, it was not thought right for a Member of that House to avail himself of his position to call attention to the conduct of private individuals in the management of their property. It was, however, on grounds of a public character that he was now induced to bring the subject under the notice of the House, as the case to which he wished to call attention was one of those in which the power of the House to address the Crown might be usefully invoked. The conduct pursued by the Law Life Assurance Company with reference to the particular property had been productive of great misery through a large portion of the West of Ireland. The region to which he wished to direct the attention of the House was the romantic wilds of Connemara. It was a district which was formerly much more prosperous than at present it could be pronounced to be under a body of English gentlemen of high respectability and position. He did not know whether there was any Gentleman in the House connected with this Society, but if there should be he hoped it would be understood that he (Mr. Long-field) was desirous to avoid giving any personal offence in any observations he might have to offer. He wished to deal with; this altogether as an impersonal matter, but at the same time, in referring to the
 747 Daily News 748 749 750 "About a mile and a half from Clifden, in the townland of Derrygimla, on the Law Life property, I remarked some fences or embankments partially raised; and seeing no men at work I inquired the reason, and was informed by one of the men who had been employed on the work that he and five others were engaged at it at so much per perch (1 s d s d "That the agent of the Law Life Assurance Company he communicated with on the subject, sending him a copy of Mr. Lyons's admirable letter, with the view of ascertaining what amount that company, being the chief proprietors of the locality, would undertake to subscribe towards the purchase of fuel as proposed." 751 "The expectation that an example will be promptly given by the Law Life Assurance Company, who possess a great part of the property of the Clifden Union, if is to be hoped will not be disappointed. Mr. Robinson, the agent, which manages the property on behalf of the company, is chairman of the Board of Guardians of the Clifden Union, and must be well acquainted with the circumstances of the district. This is the lame gentleman who transmitted a memorial for assistance from the Government, which appeared in the newspapers a few days since." "Whitehall, 2nd December, 1861. "Sir,—I am directed by Secretary Sir George Grey to request that you will, at the earliest opportunity, bring under the notice of the managing direction of the Law Life Assurance Company the enclosed copy of a letter addressed by the Poor Law Board in Ireland to the Chief Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant. Sir George Grey has received several private communications from Ireland, which he does not feel he should be authorized in transmitting to you as official documents, but which concur in the expression of opinion that the resident agent of the Law Life Assurance Company has not shown the disposition which might have been expected from a gentleman representing a company possessed of an estate of vast extent in Galway, to take an active part in promoting local efforts for the relief of the poor in that district, while he appears to have taken a prominent part in appealing to the Government for assistance. Without entering on the question of whether such assistance may, or may not, hereafter become necessary, it must be obvious that it is of the greatest importance that the first and chief reliance should be placed on local efforts; and it is gratifying to be assured that many of the landed proprietors in the West of Ireland are exerting themselves honourably and successfully in adopting measures to avert, or mitigate, the apprehended distress. Sir George Grey is far from assuming, from the facts already before him, that the conduct of Mr. Robinson may not be susceptible of satisfactory explanation; but he cannot doubt that the managing direction will share, the anxiety which he himself feels, that no suspicion should exist as to their desire that their agent should be one of the foremost in promoting every practicable scheme of local benevolence, and should heartily co-operate with other landowners in the exertions which they are making; and he entertains the fullest confidence that this subject will receive the prompt and serious attention of the directors.—I am, &c., (Signed) "H. WADDINOTON. "To D. S. Bockett, Esq., "Law Life Assurance Company." 752 s d 753 "There is so much poverty and misery in this country that I hardly know where to begin to describe it to you. For many years past the tenants on the Law Life property have had some stock to pay their rents with; now they have none. Since I came to this country, now nearly five years, I have seen in the fair of Roundstone, On the 25th of March, as many as 300 each on the fair green, but on the 25th of March last, I do not think there were more than thirty. To show you still more, the Law Life has had to large townlands in their own hands close by me ever since I came here; Letterdife and Rossrow, more than 3,000 acres which they let out fur grazing; and other years at this time they had about 200 cattle taken into graze, and this year I am certain they have not thirty. The houses are of loose stones, put together without clay or mortar, I have often said to the tenants on the Law Life property, 'Why do you not make your houses more warm and comfortable, and make a few fields round you houses, in which to grow carrots, parsnips, turnips, and cabbages for your families in the winter, when you find that this oft-cultivated land still continues to rot your potatoes?' Their answer was, 'And if I done that same, perhaps I would only have it ope year, for either my "rint" would be raised, or some one else would fancy it, and I would be put out There are no cow-houses or pig-houses, or stables; in Connemara those who are fortunate to possess a few beasts, cattle, pigs, or sheep, during the whole of the winter keep all in the same cabin with their tamily, and in the same apartment, but were I to write for a week, I could not tell you of half the misery of this country. If the Law Life goes on a little longer as it is doing now, no one will be able to live in this country. The small tenants are going fast, and those that are a little better off, must soon follow. Since the Ballinahinch estate became the property of the Law Life Society, they have had as many as 1,000 ejectments tried at one quarter sessions at Oughterard. The farm I now hold, Toombeola, was formerly let for £27 a year. I took it in the year 1860 at a rent of £60, including all rates and taxes. The first year I held it, I laid out £150 upon it, between houses and land, and since that time I have laid out upon improvements (permanent improvements) more than £30 a year; and now Messrs. Bockett and Robinson have offered me a lease at £70 a year, and I to pay all rates and taxes, which would make my rent something like £75 or £76 a year; my last rates were £4 4 s d s 754
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, that the letters were not anonymous; the writers had all signed their names; and though he had not read them to the House he had made himself responsible for the respectability and trustworthiness of the writers,
 MR. TORRENS  said, he wished to auk the President of the Board of Trade, When it is probable that the works at Portpatrick Harbour, now being carried out under direction of the Government, will be completed; and, in the event of much further delay occurring in the completion of the works, whether the Government will take into consideration the propriety of having the Mails conveyed to and from the North of Ireland  viâ
 MR. MILNER GIBSON , in reply, said, the works at Portpatrick Harbour were in progress, but from what he had heard it was not probable that they would be completed during the present year. The entrance to the floating dock would be ready in about six weeks, and a large portion of the channel would be deepened in the course of three or four months. With regard to the second question of the hon. Member, he had to state that the proposal for a temporary mail service between Stranraer and Larne, during the construction of the works at Portpatrick, had been considered, but it had not been thought advisable by the authorities to adopt that arrangement.
 MR. O'HAGAN  said, he had not stated that he would not lay a Bill on the table during that Session. On the contrary, he hoped to be able to do so; but he did not think there was any chance of the Bill being passed in the present Session.
 MR. O'HAGAN (THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND)  said, it was quite impossible to exaggerate the importance of the subject which had been so ably brought before the House by the hon. and learned Member. He thought, too, that the subject was properly brought forward by the hon. and learned Member, who had distinguished himself by his zealous and persevering efforts in support of a principle which at one time did not seem likely to obtain much support. He did not intend to follow his hon. and learned Friend through all the details of his speech, but he might say that there was scarcely a principle laid down, or a position taken up by the hon. and learned Gentleman in which he (Mr. O'Hagan) did not agree. He believed that the establishment of a system of land transfer in Ireland, making the conveyance of land simple, speedy, and cheap, was a great necessity. There might be differences of opinion as to the effects of free trade upon Ireland, but one thing was certain, that that country was entitled to the benefit of free trade in land. There existed in Ireland a strong
 742 743
 MR. SCULLY  said, he rose to move that an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, for a Commission to inquire and report as to the best system of registering titles to land in Ireland, to frame a measure for that purpose, and to consider and report upon the creation of transferable debentures upon land in Ireland. He had brought the matter publicly forward some fifteen years before; in fact he entered Parliament principally for the purpose of introducing the subject, and he hoped to remain in that House until his object had been attained. Although he had confined the Commission to Ireland, he should not have the least objection to extend it to the Empire. Ireland, however, had usually been the pioneer in these important reforms, and possessed some machinery for carrying them out that did not exist in this country. There was an obvious distinction between the registration of titles and the registration of deeds and assurances. The registration of deeds spoke for itself. One either put upon the register the entire deed, which was then called an enrolment, or an abstract of the deed, which was called a memorial. That system existed only partially in England—namely, in Yorkshire and Middlesex, but it was general throughout Ireland, and was found the cause of great expense. The registration
 737 primá facie 738 the hon. Gentleman exhibited a large packet of them 739 Free Trade in Land 740 741
 MR. SCULLY  said, he was willing to withdraw his Amendment on the understanding that the right hon. and learned Attorney General would bring in his Bill as soon as possible.
 MR. SCULLY  said, he doubted very much whether any company could hold land except for its corporate purposes. He was at a loss for a cause to which to attribute the extraordinary Parliamentary indecency of which the Chief Secretary had been guilty in coming forward to defend this company, and treating the hon. Member for Galway scarcely with courtesy.
 MR. SCULLY  said, that he was under the impression that, according to the new rule, a Member could on Friday evening speak on every subject that was introduced.
 MR. FERRAND  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If he is aware by whom Mr. Rawlinson's Report on the Bradford Reservoirs was last week given to the Bradford Corporation and the local press, when it has not yet been printed and delivered to Members of the House of Commons?
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Member for Tyrone, When the last Report of the Patriotic Fund Commission will be laid upon the table of the House?
 MR. GREGORY  said, when the notice of his hon. Friend was put upon the paper, he had put himself in communication with gentlemen upon the spot for the purpose of ascertaining whether there was any foundation for the complaints made of the oppressive conduct of the Law Life Assurance Company in the
 762 763 d s d
 MR. MONSELL  said, he entirely approved every portion of his right hon. and learned Friend's speech, except the last few sentences, which seemed to doubt the possibility of introducing a measure during the Session. The question had excited the highest interest not only of the legal profession, but also among the landed proprietors of Ireland, and considering the enormous importance of some
 744
 MR. MURRAY  said, that as a director of the Law Life Society, he wished to express his regret that instead of attacks being made in that House, founded on information furnished by correspondents whose names were not mentioned, it would have been much better to have communicated the facts to the Directors, and in the first instance to have ascertained their correctness. The Society desired to do everything in its power to improve the condition of its tenants. The Society had already spent thousands in constructing roads, in aiding charities, and in erecting a church on their property; it had done everything a resident landlord could do, and a great many things which no absentee proprietor did to make their tenantry happy. The Directors had never received any complaint from any tenant, and if there had been any complaint instead of these anonymous letters—
 MR. MURRAY  said, the letters were anonymous as far as the House was concerned. When the hon. Gentleman read an extract from Dr. Brodie's report, it would have been but candid if he had read the whole of Mr. Beckett's letter in reply, and which was considered satisfactory by the Secretary of State in 1861. About the same time the Clifton Fuel Fund Society Bent a vote of thanks to the Law Life Association for their assistance: when the next season of distress came, in May, 1863, the Society's solicitor had written to the local agent, some days before the communication from the Home Secretary had been received, directing the agent to provide employment for the tenants in order to alleviate the distress. From that time to the present no complaint had ever reached the Society so far as he was aware. It had been said, "Sell the estates;" but it was not so easy. If the hon. arid learned Member for Mallow would find a buyer, he for one should be thankful. The hon. Gentleman, no doubt, knew that joint-stock companies were beginning to look after landed estates in Ireland, and knowing this and seeing repeated notices in the paper, from February last to the present time against the Law Life Society, he began to think they had something to do with the idea of a joint-stock company wishing to buy these estates. The Society had no disposition to retain the estates, they had been an annoyance and not a pleasure, and if any of the hon. Gentleman's friends were willing to become purchasers, the estates were for sale at a fairvaluation.
 COLONEL SYKES  considered there should be some definite law to guide the decision in these cases. At all events, there was no doubt that the Banda and Kirwee booty ought to have been distributed to the captors long since.
 MR. F. S. POWELL  observed, that it was the custom of the Government to make a statement on introducing the Army and Navy Estimates, but not the Miscellaneous, or Civil Service, or Supplemental Votes. He wished, therefore, to ask the First Commissioner of Works whether he was prepared to make a statement with reference to the plans of the National Gallery and the result of the negotiations with the Royal Academy, and whether he would allow full time for consideration after the statement be made, before the House was asked to vote money in pursuance of it?
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in moving the second reading of the Bill, said, the measure proposed that the class of houses to which it referred should be closed during the hours between one and four o'clock in the morning. Since the Bill had been printed and circulated, the licensed victuallers of the metropolis, whom it chiefly concerned, had held a meeting, and passed resolutions entirely concurring in its object, believing it would be conducive to public morality and not prejudicial to their interests. They and the refreshment housekeepers had made some suggestions as to certain exceptions being made in the case of houses which were licensed for musical and other entertainments. It was desired that there should be a power of granting an occasional licence for such places to be kept open beyond one o'clock; and he should endeavour to prepare a clause for that purpose. He wished also to amend the Bill by including the City of London within its operation, because, though geographically within the metropolitan district, the City was not technically within it.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, I am glad to have an opportunity of stating what I believe to be the right of the people to the parks. Before I do so, however, I wish to advert to what has fallen from the hon. Member for Peterborough. He has raised two questions—the right of the
 774 775 776
 SIR GEORGE GREY : The best answer I can give to that question is to state, that when a request was made subsequently to my right hon. Friend to hold a meeting on Primrose Hill, anticipating that it would be a peaceful meeting—and it turned out a very small as well as a peaceful one—permission was given.
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in reply, said, he was not aware by what authority the Report had been given to the Bradford Corporation or the local press. The reason why it had not yet been presented to Parliament was that it was to be accompanied with plans, which it would take some time to complete.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, that before the reference was finally made to the Court of Admiralty, the terms of it ought to be seen, because, unless some definite question was referred to them, the Court might say that it was matter of prerogative upon which they could not decide.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said; that as he had been so pointedly alluded to by the hon. Member for Gal way, he felt bound to say a few words on the subject, although after the able statement of his noble Friend the Member for Mayo (Lord John Browne), it was hardly necessary that he should do so. It was true that in 1861 he had to pass through the county in which the property alluded to was situated, and he upon that occasion heard that the estates of the Society were very badly managed. The statements on the subject came, he believed, principally from his hon. Friend the Member for Galway, who told him that the tenants on those estates had a standing notice to quit always hanging over their heads; that was to say, that they were not only yearly tenants, but that, at the expiration of each year, they might be called upon to quit without further notice. [Mr. GREGORY: I never heard that until the other day, and I never spoke about it to the right hon. Gentleman in my life.] Now, that statement he believed to be wholly unfounded. The tenants of the Society certainly were yearly tenants, but they were entitled to have six months' notice, and that would be the case with any property in" the hands of a company or association desirous of selling their
 764 765 766
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE , who had  presented 722 723 724 725 726 727 728 "To give simplicity to all proceedings in matters of prize, and to facilitate despatch, it is essential that the principle of actual capture should be as closely adhered to as the nature of military operations permits. Any departure from this principle involves doubt, uncertainty, dissatisfaction, and delay; and any apparent want of equity which may arise from it in particular cases will, we believe, be willingly acquiesced in by the parties concerned as in the similar case of the navy, as one of the proverbial chances of war." 729 "My Lords have already expressed their opinion that under the circumstances attending the capture of the booty in question a more extended principle of distribution should be adopted than that of actual capture, and they still retain the impression that having regard to the great value of the treasure, and the comparative numbers of the forces engaged in contiguous, if not combined, operations, it will be right to advise Her Majesty to exercise a discretion in the grant of the treasure, which remains at her free disposal. Yet they feel that any advice which may be tendered on the subject to Her Majesty should be governed by some well-defined principle, and that an arbitrary decision should be avoided, Which might create a new precedent of inconvenient application to future cases, when possibly the conditions might be reversed, and the larger booty be taken by the larger force." 730 "In August, 1861, the Secretary of State for India in Council was of opinion that the Kirwee booty should be divided between the three field forces, and that Lord Clyde and his personal staff should share. We now reiterate this opinion, but admit that as far as regards Sir H. Roberts' force, the information is not so direct. Lord Clyde thinks that Sir H. Rose's force, and a brigade detached from Sir H. Roberts' force (Smith's) should share, but not Sir H. Roberts' force generally. He would also include the chief of his staff and the adjutant-general of the Bengal army. The Secretary of State for War and his Royal Highness the Duke of Cambridge concur with Lord Clyde, except that they would not include Sir William Mansfield and Lieutenant Colonel Norman. The prize agents, whose memorial has been received from the Lords of the Treasury, contend for the observance of the principle of actual capture, which would give the whole booty, to Sir G. Whitlock's force. The Lords of the Treasury, in a very able minute, propose a compromise—namely, that a moiety shall be assigned to the actual captors, and that the other moiety should be divided between the three columns. But they suggest that the Law Officers of the Crown should be consulted, and that, should they entertain any doubt, then that the case should be submitted for the judgment of the High Court of Admiralty." 731 732 Will
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he was willing to withdraw his Resolution upon the understanding that the question would be referred to the High Court of Admiralty. He wished to know, at the same time, whether there would he any objection to state the form of reference? He understood that the orders had already been given, and, if so, he should like to hear in what terms.
 SIR THOMAS BURKE  said, he wished to bear testimony to the exceedingly good management of the property held by the Law Life Assurance Company, and to express his regret very much that the discussion had been brought forward. He had had the pleasure of meeting Mr. Robinson some years ago, and although that Gentleman was politically opposed to him, he believed his management of the property with which he had been intrusted was entitled to the highest credit.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  intimated that he would communicate the terms of the reference to the hon. Baronet.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he had already directed that the case should be so referred, but the particular form of reference had not yet been determined. About this, however, he presumed there would be no difficulty.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I must, in the first place, say that I think the Government and the House are much indebted to the hon. and gallant Member for Oxfordshire (Colonel North) for the proposal he made last year that a Royal Commission should be appointed to investigate this question of army prize money. We adopted that suggestion with great readiness, and I think the Report shows that it was desirable to appoint a Commission to investigate the matter. No doubt great delays take place in the distribution of army prize money—delays that, in many instances, might by better arrangements be prevented. We were glad to carry into effect the recommendations of the Commission so far as they belong to the functions of the Government. I wish at the outset to state
 733 ex parte 734 sic vos non vobis 735
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : From recent accounts, Sir, which we have received, it appears that at present the German troops in Schleswig and Jutland are sup plied by contributions or supplies afforded to them, not by the people of the country but by contracts made at Hamburg for the Austrian and Prussian troops. An endeavour was made to get a contract from the people of the country, but the price asked was more than that at which the contract could be made at Hamburg. Orders have also been issued by the Prussian Government that all contributions, either in money or in kind, which have been levied after the 12th of the month, the day on which the armistice commenced, shall be restored and returned to the persons from whom they were levied.
 ADMIRAL DUNCOMBE  said, he wished to know, whether the vessel had not since been taken into dock,
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he would give notice that on Thursday he should move that the Return be laid on the table.
 MR. PEEL  said, in reply, that the Mint had lately been so much occupied by the demand for gold coinage, that some delay had been experienced in the silver coinage, but he hoped that in a very short time the supply of the silver coinage would be equal to the demand.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether he has received from the
 802 Research
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : The price, as they stand, was fixed by the valuer for the Admiralty at £195,000; and for their completion in all respects a further sum of £25,000 will be required.
 MR. COWPER  said, that the main object was to enable the friends of the Volunteers to see their evolutions, and 4,000 tickets were given to the commanding officers to be distributed as they pleased among the members of their corps. That, of course, led to the admission of very various classes and ranks of society. Besides this, tickets were sent to the Members of both Houses of Parliament and to official persons, to foreigners and others, who seemed entitled to a preference. It was stated on the cards that the first three rows of chairs were to be reserved for ladies; but he was sorry to say that many in the station of gentlemen disregarded this regulation, and were so discourteous to the ladies, that they took the front seats, and refused to give them up to ladies when asked to do so, and intercepted the view of those behind by standing upon the
 810
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : In answer to the Question of the hon. Gentlemen, it will be necessary for me to make a short statement to the House. The House is probably aware that in the month of September last — some time before the seizure of these vessels—the Government applied to certain persons representing themselves to be the owners of these ships, expressing their willingness, if they were really in the hands of  bonâ fide 805 806 bonâ fide Pampero 807 bona fides
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : £300,000.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he hoped the Government would place all the Correspondence before the House before any Vote was asked for.
 MAJOR KNOX  said, he would beg to ask, Whether the Government have received any Return of the casualties which occurred at the Volunteer Review in Hyde Park on Saturday last; and also, whether the Report which had appeared in the papers is true, to the effect that Sir Richard Mayne had declined to provide any extra protection for the public on that occasion?
 LORD NAAS  said, he had always been of opinion that the spirit duties ought to be put at the very highest amount which would be compatible with the prevention of illicit distillation. But if it could be proved that the increased duty had had the effect of greatly increasing illicit distillation with all its attendant evils, that would, no doubt, be a subject for the serious consideration of the House. What he principally complained of, however, was that while the duty had been enormously increased of late years, no corresponding increase had taken
 839 s
 MR. COWPER  said, the contractor had bound himself to complete the building in two years and four months from the present time. It would probably, therefore, be in use in three years. In reply to the hon. Member for Truro (Mr. Augustus Smith), he explained that the estimate of £200,000 for the new Foreign Office was based upon the original tenders made in 1859. The building now in the process of erection was, in its internal arrangements, almost the same as that for which the contracts were given; but since that time the price of labour and materials had risen about 10 per cent, and the estimate founded on the lowest tender was £223,516. He reminded the Committee that in July, 1861, he stated that the Government could not bind themselves to the estimate of £200,000. The item of £4,899 was made up of various sums paid for drawings and plans. First, there was a sum of £500 due to Mr. Gilbert Scott for work done between November, 1858, and March, 1859; next, there was a further sum of £2,000 payable to Mr. Scott for working drawings and specifications for tenders in 1859; then the model exhibited to Members of the House cost £300, and £1,500 was paid to surveyors for preparing bills of quantities, There were also some smaller charges, bringing up the total to £4,899; but the money had actually been paid, did not require to be voted, and was mentioned only to show the total estimated cost of providing a new Foreign Office. The drawings and plans, though not adopted, were necessary to enable the House to decide what kind of building the Foreign Office should be. Architects had to be employed to prepare them, and he did not
 846
 MR. COWPER  said, that the only architect whose account was included was Mr. Scott.
 MR. COWPER  explained that the items in question were not to be voted now, and were given merely for the information of the House as to the amount of the whole grant.
 MR. COWPER  said, he shared to a certain extent the anxiety and apprehen-
 847
 MR. COWPER  said, that all the wills of the district would be deposited in the new building at Manchester.
 MR. COWPER  replied that the existing Registry Office could not be taken possession of without the consent of the Lords of the Treasury, who, of course, would not give their consent until a perfectly proper depository for the wills was. provided. He believed that such a place would be ready in ample time.
 MR. COWPER  stated that the owner of Fendall's Hotel and of the adjoining houses was bound by an award to surrender them, and their demolition would commence when surrendered.
 MR. COWPER  said, that the Government had asked for a plan for laying out the whole of New Palace Yard as an open space. The details were not yet decided on; but, probably, the best scheme would be to carry a balustrade wall along the southern side of Bridge Street, on account of the level of New Palace Yard being below that of Bridge Street. This difference of level might be made conducive to beauty in laying out the square.
 MR. COWPER  said, the hon. Member must be aware from the various Committees that had sat on this subject, and debates that had taken place in the House, that a great number of plans had been prepared at different times. This Vote was confined entirely to the claims of Mr. Pennethorne Mr. Pennethorne did not send in his claim until after the question respecting the site of Downing Street was decided, because he did not know that he would not be employed upon it. This question had been the subject of great deliberation. In 1853 it was proposed to have a building facing St. James's Park; but that plan was set aside in November, 1854, and another plan was prepared which was to carry the offices all round the quadrangle. Committees and debates followed: it was afterwards thought desirable to enlarge the area to be employed for the public offices. With this change of opinion it became necessary to throw aside the designs that had been made, and to prepare others. The largest item in this Vote was for a
 849
 MR. COWPER  believed that Mr. Pennethorne had misunderstood the directions which he had received from Lord Llanover; but it was not likely that a man of his station and high character would have made these plans except he had believed that he was acting under instructions from the head of his Department. The work had been done, and after due consideration the
 850
 MR. COWPER  said that, under the present arrangement, Mr. Pennethorne had a salary of £1,500 a year as surveyor
 851
 MR. COWPER : No. The design to which the hon. Gentleman alludes was not prepared by Mr. Pennethorne, but by Mr. Scott.
 MR. COWPER  said, he fully sympathized with the feelings of the hon. and gallant Admiral, who, he believed, originally proposed the erection of the lions, and much regretted the delay which had occurred in the completion of the work. That delay, however, had arisen rather from an excess than a want of care. The first model was all but completed, and he was assured that one of the lions would be cast during the present year. When that had been done the difficulties would have been mainly overcome, and he trusted that no long period would elapse before the other three were finished, and that the hon. and gallant Admiral would have an opportunity of seeing and admiring them. Some money had been paid in advance, but the value of the work executed was fully equal to the sum which had been advanced.
 MR. PEEL  said, it had been stated last year that the Government had decided on abandoning the construction of the eastern arm of the breakwater, and that the works would be confined to the completion of the western arm. There would thus be a reduction in the total estimate from £1,300,000 to £1,200,000; and there was reason to believe that this Estimate would not be exceeded. After the present Vote, a further sum of £50,000 would complete the whole work.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he had recently been to Alderney and could not help being struck with the folly of successive Governments in throwing money away upon the works there. Alderney was one of a cluster of rocks. As to its being a harbour of refuge, if the eastern arm was abandoned no vessel would find protection against an easterly gale, or would run there for protection—and as to its being a look-out station from which to watch Cherbourg, even on a clear day it would be impossible to see ships entering or leaving Cherbourg, which was twenty-four miles off. In addition to £1,600,000 for the breakwater, the Government had spent £250,000 on I fortifications, which in a time of war would require 7,000 men to man them. No I enemy would ever have thought of attack-
 855
 MR. CORRY  said, it was a great mistake to call Alderney a harbour of refuge, as no man in his senses would run down upon that dangerous coast. But at the time it was originally designed for a great naval port, the most distinguished authorities, including the late Duke of Wellington, were favourable to the scheme. To illustrate the matter, if a foreign Power were in possession of a great harbour and extensive fortifications upon an island only sixteen miles from Portsmouth, their importance doubtless would be generally recognized. The breakwater, however, would be perfectly useless unless the southeastern arm were constructed as well as the western. This would cost an additional £100,000, but whatever Government might be at the time in office he was sure the money would have to be spent.
 LORD NAAS  asked, when there was a reasonable prospect of the completion of the works at Holyhead, which the public had been looking forward to for several years past?
 MAJOR HAMILTON  said, he had attempted to land at Stranraer by the steamer, but he was obliged to get into a boat, and could not even land from that, for he was put into a cart and then shot out, like so much rubbish.
 MR. CORRY  said, he could not, under the circumstances, support the Amendment; but he trusted that next year the estimate for this and similar works would be in the same form as those for Dover and Alderney. If there had been any Irishman at the Board of Trade or the Treasury, the works at Holyhead would have been completed long ago.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, he was not so sanguine as the right hon. Gentleman in his belief in the speedy completion of the arrangements for the passenger traffic between Dublin and Holyhead. He thought that the attention of the Government could with very much greater advantage be directed towards the blowing up of Daunt's Rock. They were asked to vote £50,000 for the works at Alderney.
 858
 LORD NAAS  wished to know the amount
 859
 MR. PEEL  explained that the sum asked for the Phoenix Park was to carry out improvements in the way of levelling, draining, and planting shrubberies. With reference to the Vote for the Board of Education Buildings, the principal item was for a steam laundry at the Albert Model Farm, by which it was expected that a considerable annual saving would be effected.
 LORD NAAS  said, it was clear that as long as the schools were maintained repairs would be necessary; but what he objected to was that any enlargement or addition to the Model Farm should take place after the pledge which had been given last year, that the institution should be put upon a reduced scale, with a view to its ultimate suppression. The item of £600 for a steam laundry needed some explanation.
 LORD NAAS  thought the proposition to increase the amount for alterations of the Model Farm was nothing more than an attempt to perpetuate the institution, and as its real purpose was simply to supply landowners with land stewards, he objected to the outlay for such a purpose. He should therefore move to reduce the Vote by £600.
 COLONEL DICKSON  asked why it was necessary to build a steam laundry at an expense of £600. Whose washing was to be done in that laundry?
 MR. ESMONDE  said, that the school was of more use to the peasantry, from whom land stewards were taken, than to the landlords.
 MR. CORRY  wished for some explanation of the item for the harbour master,
 861
 LORD NAAS  observed that the principle involved in this Vote was one of considerable interest, and he invoked the close attention of the Government to it. The
 864
 MR. COWPER  explained, that the buildings in question were the two arcades which were of a permanent character, and had been used as refreshment rooms.
 MR. COWPER  said, it was not intended to ask for a Vote this year.
 MR. COWPER  stated that the portions of the late refreshment rooms bought by the Government were on each side of the central part which remained in the hands of the Commissioners of the Exhibition. The Horticultural Society had no right over the portion which had been sold to the Government. These buildings were to be devoted to purposes of science and art.
 MR. COWPER  said, he was very sorry, but he did not think it would be possible to propose a Vote this year with reference to the removal of the Natural History collections from the British Museum to South Kensington, as it would be impossible to get the arrangements completed this year. The contractors were removing the old Exhibition building at South Kensington as fast as possible, but he could not say exactly when the ground would be cleared. The Government were not responsible for the contractors' arrangements. They were bound to remove the building, but it did not appear there was any binding covenant entered into by them with the Commissioners of 1862 for the clearing of the ground in a given time. He was unable to say at present to what particular purpose of science and art the arcades would be devoted. That was a question for further consideration. The ground was purchased on the understanding that it should be devoted to such purposes connected with science and art as Parliament should determine. The buildings were well adapted for the collections of Natural History. Unless the House voted the money so as to complete the purchase and to obtain a conveyance there could be no legal title, and
 868
 LORD NAAS  hoped that nothing would be done to prejudge the question as to the removal of the Natural History collections from the British Museum. He objected altogether to the removal of these collections, which were so attractive to the working classes. He believed the proper place for the Natural History collections was the British Museum, and protested against any steps being taken for the removal of the collection.
 MR. COWPER  said, that at present there was no proposal before the House for the disposal of the Exhibition ground. That might be brought forward next year; but as yet the matter was not ripe. The Exhibition Commissioners of 1851 were in possession of the land, which they sold to the Government; but they did not possess any legal power to require the ground to be cleared within a certain day. The building was, however, in process of demolition. The Patent Museum occupied a small place belonging to the Kensington Museum, and upon the ground referred to by the hon. Member for Waterford (Mr. Hassard) the building was being proceeded with.
 MR. COWPER  said, that there was
 869
 MR. COWPER  said, that upon being-asked of what use the arcades would be, he replied that they were for the same use as the land—namely, for purposes connected with science and art, and he had referred to the opinions of competent judges, who stated that they were very well adapted for that object.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE , in moving the second reading of the Bill, said, he had been requested to make a statement more in detail of the origin and nature of the Bill than he had done in the few words in which he had moved for leave to introduce the measure. The Bill had its origin in the Report of a Royal Commission, appointed in 1861, which was laid on the table of the House at the commencement of last Session; and its object was to reform the system of registration of land titles in Scotland. At present there were local registers in the counties, and a general register in Edinburgh: it was pro-
 870 871 872 "We have to add, on the head of transmission by post, that, notwithstanding the great inconveniences arising from the double set of registers,
 873 874 "There appear many strong reasons for keeping all the county registers in Edinburgh. First, the principal part of the present registers are at present kept altogether in Edinburgh; second, all the register-books are at present sent in blank from Edinburgh, and when filled up are sent to Edinburgh, and these transmissions are attended with considerable official troubles and expense to the public; third, the keeping of all the registers at one place would tend to form and maintain a methodical and accurate general system of recording; fourth, there is a General Register House especially built for safety of records; and fifth, by the above arrangements, and those after proposed, all searches could be made at once, and in the same place, thereby saving much time and expense," 875 876 877
 MAJOR HAMILTON : The right hon. Gentleman has told us to-night that this Bill had been discussed at a meeting by most of the Members for Scotland. He ought also to have told them that that meeting was somewhat against the Bill, The fact, however, was, that the principal feeling of enmity to the Bill was that it had not been fairly discussed either in the House or in the public papers in Scotland. It had been desired that a Bill of this kind should have been brought forward before the county meetings of the 10th April, and it was therefore suggested to the right hon. Gentleman that he should postpone his Bill until they had had an opportunity of discussing it at their meetings. The right hon. Gentleman was not inclined to do so, but fairly stated that on moving the second reading of the Bill he would make a statement that might appear in the public papers, and be read all over Scotland. That statement he had now made, and he (Major Hamilton) begged to thank him for the pains he had taken. He was not himself in favour of the Bill, nor did he think that his constituents were; but as his hon, and gallant Friend the Member for Ayrshire (Sir James Fergusson) had put an Amendment on the paper, and it was desirable that the Scotch Members should have a full opportunity of discussing the measure which could not be done at that hour of the night, he would beg to move that the debate be now adjourned.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : I think I am entitled on the Motion which the hon. Gentleman has made to say a few words in reply to, perhaps, the not very relevant, but not the less important speech of the hon. Member for Dumbarton. I quite admit that our plan of conducting business in this House is very different from that he would have us adopt, and the hon. Gentleman has set the good example of the new mode of procedure which he would recommend. On this, which is a very important Bill, relating to a very important subject—a subject that is as important as any of those law reforms which he wishes to see undertaken—the hon. Gentleman has chosen to introduce every topic which has nothing to do with it—everything which is not concerning the matter before the House; and I suppose that his method of conducting Scotch busi-
 880
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT : I rise, Sir, for the purpose of expressing the dissatisfac-
 852 "Well might the passing foreigner exclaim— If Britain thus neglect her gallant son, She ill deserved that honour and that fame Which with his precious life for her he won."
 MR. KINNAIRD  asked whether Mr. Pennethorne was not a permanent servant of some Department, and whether his whole time was at its service. He was under an impression that he received a salary either from the Board of Works or from the Woods and Forests.
 MR. KINNAIRD  wished to know what was intended to be done when the houses were pulled down?
 VISCOUNT ENFIELD  asked whether any Vote would be proposed this year for the new buildings at South Kensington, for the design of which Captain Fowke had received the prize?
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET , in reply, said, he had received a Return of the damage done to the  Research
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he saw no objection to its being laid on the table.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, the report was that the vessel was ready to proceed anywhere, and he believed there had been no necessity for taking her into dock.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  expressed his extreme disappointment and dissatisfaction at the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, which had held out no hope to Ireland for the future. The Chancellor of the Exchequer, contrary to his usual course, had ad-
 836 837
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  was sure that Mr. Pennethorne believed himself to be perfectly justified in preparing these plans, and was glad that the Government had concluded to propose this Vote. The difficulty in closing the architect's accounts lay quite as much with the House of Commons as with the Board of Works. An architect was directed to prepare plans for some public buildings which were thought to be urgently required. By the time he sent them in, perhaps, public opinion had changed, the buildings were not thought to be so urgent, or there might be doubts expressed as to the mode of carrying them out. Time went on, and the architect did not like to send in his bill, because he did not know but that at the end of two or three years' discussion his plans might be, after all, adopted, when he would get the usual percentage. For instance, how many years had the Foreign Office and the National Gallery been under discussion, and how many architects had been employed in preparing plans for them? As to the Foreign Office, he wished the noble Lord at the head of the Government joy of the building which was being erected in Downing Street, and he hoped that his name would be engraved in large letters over it, so that posterity might know to whom they were indebted for that ornament to the metropolis. Mr. Pennethorne was a most careful and painstaking public servant, and he hoped the House of Commons would not refuse him payment for work actually rendered.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  observed that it would be absolutely necessary that where a competent architect was taken from his ordinary work he should be paid a competent salary. But it did not follow that because an architect did the ordinary work of his office very well, that he was one to whom they should intrust the design and execution of great public buildings.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, one of the lions was ready for casting within the next month. The principal reason which caused Sir Edwin Landseer to go to the lions was that the lions would not go to Sir Edwin Landseer, and the artist deserved much credit for taking the special trouble be did. When the lions were seen they would give a practical answer to the remark just made, and he believed that the hon. Baronet (Sir George Bowyer) on seeing the model would come forward and say-that whoever selected Sir Edwin Landseer did well. He (Lord John Manners) had selected him because he considered him the best fitted to place the lions on the pedestal. The hon. Baronet (Sir George Bowyer) had suggested an eminent sculptor; but his next remark that there ought to be four employed was not consistent therewith.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  reminded the right hon. Baronet that last year he had undertaken to consider the expenditure at Glasnevin, with a view to its reduction and ultimate extinction. A new Vote for alterations and repairs did not seem adapted to the fulfilment of such a promise.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, it might be true that Customs duties were raised in the island, and that those duties went into the Imperial Exchequer; but similar duties were raised by every county
 863
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he believed the House was in hopes that the late Exhibition had been disposed of now and for ever, and that the last decision on the question had been given in a way that should not encourage the Government to revive it He was anxious, therefore, to know what was implied by the rather suspicious phrase, "certain buildings used for the purposes of the late International Exhibition."
 MR. AYRTON  asked whether the buildings the Government had agreed to purchase were to be dedicated to tavern purposes?
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  thought it was much better to get rid of the whole of the land instead of completing the purchase of these arcades. He last year voted against the purchase of the land. They were then told it was a very good bargain, that it had been sold cheap, and he was of opinion it
 867
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, the light ship was principally for the use of the local shipping.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  inquired what was the period when the Exhibition Commissioners had agreed to clear the ground of all buildings and hand it over to the country.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  objected that this country should be called upon to pay for lighthouses which were of value only to the ships frequenting the coasts of our colonies. He thought that the colonies themselves should maintain those light houses. Ceylon had a surplus revenue, and yet the taxpayers of this country were called upon to maintain the light houses upon the coasts of that island, He should move the reduction of the Vote by the sum of £2,000, the cost of the maintenance of the lighthouses in question.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  pointed out that no explanation had been given of the £5,600, which, according to the audited accounts, had been paid to Mr. Pennethorne in 1859–1860. It appeared as if Mr. Pennethorne were being paid twice over. In his evidence before the Select Committee Lord Llanover distinctly denied having given Mr. Pennethorne any authority for the preparation of these plans.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, that the Committee were now asked to Vote this sum for plans and estimates prepared by Mr. Pennethorne at different times between 1853 and 1856, and unless some explanation was given with regard to the Vote he would move its rejection.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  asked whether Mr. Pennethorne's claim in regard to the Foreign Office was included?
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  asked what the buildings were for which these sums were required.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, it seemed to him that there were several items in this Vote which had already appeared in a previous account.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  complained of the enormous cost of the new building, and called attention to the item of £4,899 for preliminary expenses of designs which were not adopted. He found, when he added this item to the sums of a similar nature voted in previous years, that upwards of £10,000 had been paid for designs not used. He moved the omission of the item.
 MR. LAYARD  expressed his regret that Mr. Home should have placed himself in such a position that the Roman Government had called upon him to leave Rome. But Mr. Home appeared to have infringed
 842 843
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  wished to know whether the plans now to be paid for included those of the Lombardo-Gothic building from which they had been saved by the noble Lord the First Minister, and which, however beautiful in itself, would have been totally unsuited to the locality.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  protested against the mode in which this money was distributed by the Treasury. He knew that a large quantity of land had been taken by the Government in the neighbourhoods of Plumstead, Woolwich, and Deptford, on which no rates were ever paid. He trusted that before next Session Her Majesty's Government would declare some distinct principle by which this money should be applied.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, in reply, that such an application had been made, but it was not only an application to pass through British Columbia, but it was an application for an exclusive privilege. An answer was returned favourable to the right of passage, but disapproving that part of the application which referred to an exclusive privilege.
 MR. CARDWELL  replied that the Colonies referred to had passed Resolutions requesting the appointment of delegates by the Governors to consider the expediency of uniting the Colonies referred to by the hon. Member, with the view of placing them under one Legislature and Government; but these delegates had not yet met, and, therefore, the time for the Imperial Government coming to any decision on the matter had not yet arrived.
 MR. CARDWELL , in reply, said, his hon. and learned Friend was well aware
 804
 MR. BENTINCK  objected to the principle of expending public money for local purposes. His right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade had assigned a reason for the necessity for the expenditure of so much money the principle that, because the Parliament of, 1856 made an agreement, the Parliament of 1864 was bound to accept the conditions agreed to, and act upon them, whether those conditions were good or bad. His right hon. Friend was too good a tactician to admit that the bargain was a bad one, but if it had been advantageous he would certainly have said so, and in his remarks lie had carefully avoided making any such statement. The position of Portpatrick was not to be compared to that of Stranraer, and yet Government was spending money for no earthly purpose, while they had a magnificent harbour within five miles. With regard to Daunt's Rock, it was perfectly marvellous what an amount of misconception existed upon the subject. Daunt's Rock was no more an impediment to the entry of Cork Harbour than were the cross-benches to any one coming into the House —in fact, a vessel must go out of her way to get on it. There was actually existing at the present moment, at the very mouth of Cork harbour itself, a rock ten times as dangerous and inconvenient, which no one entertained any idea of removing; and the only ground upon which the removal of Daunt's Rock was urged upon the Government was, the fact of a vessel having run on it in cold blood.
 MR. HADFIELD  wanted to know whether all the wills of the district would be stored there?
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he thought it would be very convenient if the fees and other sums received by the Probate Courts were put in the same account with the expenditure. They were receiving a large sum every year from the public in the shape of fees, out of which the Proctors' compensation was paid. It was understood that the fees in the Probate Court were to be reduced as the compensation charges for the Proctors gradually diminished, and he therefore thought that a statement of the sums paid to the Proctors should be in eluded in the accounts.
 MR. HUNT  said, he wished to know how payment for the purchase of the vessels in question was to be provided, and
 808
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  asked why the property in question should be liable only to the payment of poor rates?
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he understood the right hon. Gentleman to say he did not intend to propose a Vote for the erection of any building on the ground this season; but he hoped that reply had no reference to the Vote they were led to expect would be asked for this year for a building for the reception of the Natural History collection of the British Museum. He hoped that that Vote would not be delayed. The opinion out of doors was favourable to such a Vote.
 MR. HODGKINSON  said, in reference to Mr. Solicitor General's statement in the Court of Exchequer on Thursday last, that the case of "The Attorney General  v
 MR. PAULL  desired to ask the First Commissioner of Works, on what principle the distribution of tickets for the reserved space was made? It was stated that seats would be provided for ladies; but such accommodation was not afforded. It was also, as he understood, announced that tickets would be given to the Members of the two Houses of Parliament; but many persons were admitted who, he should say, were by no means closely connected with Members of either House.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR , asked to what particular purpose of science or art it was intended to devote these arcades? It was difficult to understand to what other than the culinary art they could be devoted. He thought they had sufficient room on the other side of the ground for the purposes of science and art.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  observed, that though it was stated that the arcades would be useful for the exhibition of the Natural History collections, yet if the House decided not to remove the collections there, then the arcades would be perfectly useless. By the Vote now proposed the House would be pledged more deeply than ever to the removal of those collections, and therefore he thought that his hon. Friend was quite right in moving the rejection of the Vote.
 MR. CHILDERS : If the hon. Gentleman asks the question to-morrow, I will answer it.
 MR. WHITESIDE  rose, pursuant to notice, to move—
 "That in the opinion of this House it is expedient that the existing Duties upon Spirits should be reduced." 811 "That is, however, a very difficult problem. It may be very doubtful whether it will ever be entirely obtained, but such an approximation to it as will stop smuggling, might, perhaps, at some time be reached. It is quite plain that such an equalization cannot be obtained without some reduction of the spirit duties in England. We must lower the English duties at a fitting time to some point up to which the others may be raised." s s d "The Government have also anxiously considered this question as it regards Ireland. It is quite plain, I am afraid, that we can in no case stand as we are with regard to the Irish spirit duty, since an allowance for waste in bond will entail a diminution of revenue. At present the spirit duty in Ireland is extremely low in comparison with the duty in the two other countries. When an attempt was made to increase the tax in 1842 by 1 s s "We think we may fairly propose an additional duty of 8 d s d s d 812 s d s 813 s d s 814 "It is one of the main complaints of the distillers of spirits, than whom I never had the pleasure of meeting with a more intelligent body of British merchants and tradesmen, that they are taxed, as they think, most unfairly in proportion to beer. I admit from its nature that beer ought to be taxed more lightly than ardent
 815 s d s s s d ad valorem "It was estimated, on the contrary, before and apart from any change of duty, that the tax would yield about £400,000 more than the duty had yielded in the year before." 816 "The country we naturally look to with misapprehension, and which may be called the peccant part of the United Kingdom. Illicit distillation was not increasing, as has been proved by the returns of the detections in Ireland; it was, in fact, reduced, and the police was effective in this regard." "With respect to the spirit duty, that is a fiscal and likewise a social question of very great interest and importance. The figures were but partially satisfactory. I estimated with a liberal allowance the effect of the heightened price—that we should receive £10,000,000 of revenue from British spirits. We have only got about £9,600,000. It is true there is an increase of £359,000 upon the previous year, but even this is not so large an increase as we thought we should receive. Now, the serious question is, from what cause has the revenue fallen short? Is it from illicit distillation, or is it from an alteration in the public taste, or is it from a diminished power of consumption? It is certainly not from illicit distillation." 817 818 819 "Since the high rate of duty of 10 s s s s s s s s "The lamentable failure of the measure by which the duty was raised in 1860 to 10 s 820 "We do not deny that in one point of view the revenue accounts since the spirit duties were raised to their present rate have disappointed us. The consumption has undoubtedly decreased in a greater degree than we had expected, and although in the past year there were obvious abnormal causes operating towards this result, we cannot but feel great hesitation in making an estimate for the future." 821 s "Glenelly Rectory, Gortin, Newtownstewart. "April 26, 1864. "Dear Sir, — Observing that you have given notice of your intention to bring under the consideration of the House the subject of the reduction of the existing duties on spirits, I send you a Return, showing the extent to which, within a very limited district, illicit distillation has lately been carried on. The seizures have been made within less than four months by one party, consisting of a constable and three sub-constables, and within two miles of my glebe house. It is quite unnecessary for me to make any observation on the demoralizing tendency of the practice, as
 822 "I have not the pleasure of a personal acquaintance with you, but I have a very great pleasure in being one of your constituents.—Very truly yours, "E. M. CLARKE, J. P., Ex-Schol.-Rector of the Parish of Upper Badoney. "To the right hon. J. Whiteside," &c. "As a tobacco manufacturer and spirit retailer, pay a yearly licence of £20 18 s d 823 s d s 824 Edinburgh Review 825
 MR. WHITESIDE  intimated that he would not press his Motion.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that Mr. Home was a gentleman who stated that he had intercourse with spirits, who foretold future and related past events, and he believed that he accepted fees for his  séances
 MR. HOPWOOD : What was the price originally asked?
 MR. HOPWOOD : What is the price of the ships?
 MR. HOPWOOD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, If a Union of the three Lower Provinces of North America—Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, and Prince Edward's Island, is in contemplation; and, if so, what is to be the nature of that Union, Federal or Legislative? Also what steps, if any, have been taken by these Provinces towards the Union, and if they have received the approval of Her Majesty's Government?
 MR. LOCKE  wanted to know, whether the building on the twelve acres which had been referred to was to be erected in accordance with Captain Fowke's plan, which ultimately assumed a very handsome appearance?
 MR. LOCKE  said, it appeared to him an extraordinary principle to lay down that Government property should make a contribution in aid of rates only when it amounted to one-sixth of the rateable value of the parish. This question of rating should not be left in the hands of the Government, but rather placed in the hands of the ordinary local authorities of the country. He thought the explanation given by the right hon. Gentleman very unsatisfactory.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies as to the conduct of the Government with respect to meeting the claims of the Officials in the Ionian Islands. He wished to know, Whether the Government is prepared to secure to those Officials the payment of their Pensions, or whether those Gentlemen are to be thrown helpless upon the tender mercies of a Government which has never yet performed any one of its treaty obligations?
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he wanted to ask
 840 séance 841 Civis Romanus sum
 MR. WATKINS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, If any application has been made to Her Majesty's Government, or to the local authorities, by or on behalf of Mr. Collins, the Concessionaire of the Russo-American
 803
 MR. MARSH  said, he had been two or three times to Portpatrick Harbour, and he believed that the works there were a mere job. Stranraer, on the other hand, might easily be made an excellent harbour.
 MR. HASSARD  wished the right hon. Gentleman would apply the same argument to the case of Daunt's Rock, in the vicinity of Cork.
 MR. HASSARD  asked, whether there was any plan for the appropriation of that part of the twelve acres purchased for the purpose of the South Kensington Museum, which seemed to be insufficient for the Patent Museum?
 MR. SMOLLETT : Sir, it is not my intention to make a long statement to the House. The Bill contains a great deal that is valuable, and I do not think that there is any great objection to it because it is unpalatable to certain local legal practitioners in Scotland. But my intention, in rising, is to say a few words upon the manner in which Scotch business is transacted in this House. When I first became a Member of the House I was told that the
 878 879
 MR. TORRENS  asked for some information on the subject of Portpatrick Harbour, and moved that the Vote be postponed until the requisite details were furnished in the same form as in Vote 18.
 MR. COLLINS  explained. He considered all property should be rated. It was a fallacy to have a mere rate in aid, as the present mode of rating Government property was.
 MR. COLLINS  thought that the principle adopted by the Government was very illogical. It appeared that when the Government property should amount to one-sixth of that of the whole parish a special contribution in aid would be given. He could not see any reason why every kind of property in possession of the Government should not pay its fair share of taxation as well as every other property. Then, again, the hon. Secretary of the Treasury said that the Government would not pay any more for property which they had improved by an outlay than what they paid before, But that was laying down a different principle from that which applied to the property of private individuals. He hoped that henceforward the logical principle would be laid down that all Government property should pay its fair share of taxation in the same manner as every other property was liable to.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that the agreement was founded upon a correspondence which took place between the Government and the Railway Company, and upon a subsequent Treasury Minute, ordering the execution of the works. Beyond that, there was no written contract with the company.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that the works for the accommodation of the packet service at Holyhead would, he believed, be completed within the present year; but some delay had hitherto been caused in
 857
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  also observed that the lighthouse at Ceylon was kept up to facilitate the navigation of ships going to and from China and Australia, and that it would be very hard to call upon the inhabitants of the island itself to submit to the heavy charge necessary for that purpose.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  could not understand why this country should not pay its proportion for the keeping up of this light ship, for if it were not maintained the shipping of this country would materially suffer.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, the
 866
 MR. SCULLY  said, the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield had made a mistake in bringing that complaint against the Roman Government. That Government and Mr. Home were quite agreed; the only difference between them was as to these spirits, for whose good behaviour that gentleman could not be answerable. The only persons to blame were the obscene spirits in the habit of calling occasionally on Mr. Home. The hon. and learned Member said he had a great respect for "the old gentleman" at the head of the Roman Government. That was not a decent mode
 844
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  explained. He had declared it to be a matter of secondary consequence whether he put the proper construction on certain facts at the time; he never said that it was a matter of secondary importance whether his official calculations were sound.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he admitted that the right hon. Gentleman was fully entitled to call attention to this subject—not so much, perhaps, in deference to his particular constituents, who would hardly recognise him on this occasion as discharging any special duties they had committed to him, as in deference to the interests of the important trade whose cause he had pleaded with so much moderation and ability. The right hon. Gentleman had himself made an admission which he must feel bore very materially on this point—that the question they had now to deal with did not affect the case of Ireland alone, but involved the rate of spirit duty to be levied for the three kingdoms. The right hon. Gentleman had stated—and with truth, provided the application of the remark was kept within certain limits—that he, as Chancellor of the Exchequer, was bound to show that any measure proposed for the entire kingdom was applicable to every portion of the kingdom. The case, however, did not stand now as it stood in 1842, when Sir Robert Peel, having laid an additional duty on spirits in Ireland, and an increase of smuggling appearing to be traceable to that augmentation, came down himself and proposed the removal of the additional duty. It would not have been equally easy to adopt that course; in fact, its policy would have been very doubtful, if the duties in the three kingdoms had been uniform, as they were
 826 s s s s 827 828 829 "Poor Paddy, of all Christian men, I think, On basest food pours down the vilest drink." 830 s 831 s d s d s d d s d s d 832 s 833
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  wished to explain the misconstruction referred to. It was true that in July, 1860, he stated that there were extra deliveries; but the mistake was in supposing that the assumed effect of those deliveries had been exhausted in the period between February and the end of the financial year, whereas experience showed that the effect was fully felt after the close of the financial year. With regard to the deficiency of £900,000, he stated all the particulars in regard to it in the financial statement of that year.
 MR. BAXTER  said, he had distinctly understood that no further Vote would be asked for on account of the works at Alderney, and yet a Vote of £50,000 was now asked for, and it appeared that more would be required.
 MR. COX  said, he had been unable to find that there was any engagement by the Government to do this work, and lie asked for the production of the document, if there was any. The Act of Parliament was silent on the subject.
 MR. COX  said, that when he was in the North of Ireland he was informed that the Government had agreed with a railway company to construct a line to Portpatrick; but on inquiry he could not discover that any such contract existed. There had been voted up to last year the sum of £21,000, and the House was now asked for a further sum of £8,700. The original Estimate was, he believed, from £12,000 to £15,000. He wished to know how long they were to go on voting money for making Portpatrick Harbour? A small outlay at Stranraer, to form a route by Larne, would be money much better laid out.
 MR. COX  said, that the sum of £200 or £300 expended on a landing stage at Stranraer would make it a better harbour than Portpatrick, because a steamer could enter it at any time of the tide.
 MR. COX  said, he believed that the works at Alderney would only hold out an invitation to an enemy to attack a place which they would otherwise never visit. He also had recently been at Alderney, and one of the 200 or 300 inhabitants of the island told him that it would have been better if the vast sums which had been expended there in the construction of a harbour which could never answer the intended purpose, had been employed in cutting down the whole surface to low-water mark and removing to London the stone of which it was composed to pave the streets.
 MR. FERRAND  asked, whether the contractors had not pledged themselves to have the building removed from the ground by a certain day?
 MR. FERRAND  said, the noble Lord had not answered the question. Would the Return be produced?
 MR. GREGORY  said, he did not wonder at the House being aghast at the notion of any addition to the Science and Art Department at Kensington, and he believed that the very phrase "Science and Art" stank in the nostrils of every one. With respect to the removal of the Natural History collections of the British Museum, nothing could be done without the sanction of Parliament; and when a Vote for the purpose should be taken, then would be the time to have plans submitted to the House for the accommodation of the collections.
 MR. GREGORY  had heard from those who were competent to give an opinion, that Sir Edwin Landseer's model was a high work of art. The turn which the debate took reminded him of the heraldic artist who was brought to Exeter Change to see the lions, and who, when assured that they were lions, maintained that they were most misshapen beasts, and not the animals he had been painting all his lifetime. The British public were in the position of this painter of heraldry—they had only seen the conventional beast in stone or bronze—and Sir Edwin Landseer would teach them what the king of the beasts really was.
 MR. MONSELL  said, there could be no difference of opinion as to the great evil of the practice of illicit distillation. It was possible that that practice had of late years increased in a few districts in Ireland; but he believed that there had been no general increase of that kind. Indeed, the Returns presented to Parliament actually showed that there had been in Ireland a smaller number of convictions for that offence during the last few years, than there had been during former years when the duty had stood at its lowest amount. It was alleged that one of the evils of the existing state of the law was, that it had contributed to reduce the number of distilleries in Ireland. But he believed that that reduction was owing mainly to the growth of more temperate habits among the people. The fact was, that there had been a steady decrease in the number of distilleries in Ireland ever since Father Mathew had commenced the temperance movement. The number of those establishments in 1840 was eighty-six, in 1846 it was fifty-four, in 1852 it was forty-six, in 1853 it was forty, in 1859 it was thirty-seven, and in 1862 it was
 838 s d s d s
 MR. ALDERMAN ROSE  said, he believed that under this Vote was the proper occasion to express the alarm he felt as to the custody of wills in the building in which they were now placed. It was understood that the building was very vulnerable by fire, and that no protection at all was afforded to its contents. He should be glad to know whether this subject was under consideration, and if any proper site for the custody of wills had been decided upon.
 MR. ALDERMAN ROSE  inquired how soon would the new Registry Office in London be completed?
 COLONEL W. STUART  was glad to hear that the rocks were to be blasted; otherwise the harbour was more likely to wreck than to save our ships.
 COLONEL W. STUART  moved the rejection of the whole Vote. Here was a large sum proposed to be voted by the country
 862
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said that, years ago, a promise had been made that no more money should be spent upon this harbour.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  wanted to know why such alterations were made in the Model Agricultural Schools and the Albert Model Farm as to require an outlay of £1,726 upon them.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  complained of the expenditure of money for the erection of model agricultural schools, which he maintained existed in reality for the benefit of the landlords. Many items had been included in this Vote which did not properly belong to it. He said that the sum of £4,000 was asked for the Phoenix Park. What was that for?
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  asked for an explanation of the Vote.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  thought that it was disgraceful that the monument should be left uncompleted.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  thought there would be a great economy in employing a Government architect in all public works. Mr. Pennethorne appeared to be paid a salary, and to make all his charges besides.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  asked when the new Foreign Office would be finished according to the contract.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  asked when the remaining houses in New Palace Yard were to be taken down?
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, the Phoenix Park in Dublin was placed under the Board of Works, and therefore the sum asked for came under the amount voted for that Board. It was unreasonable to object to the Vote of a little more than £4,000 for the Phoenix Park when no less than £94,000 had been voted for the English Parks.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  called attention to the fact, that while one-half the cost of building and repairing these court-houses in Scotland was borne by the Consolidated Fund, the like charge in Ireland had to be entirely defrayed out of the county rates. In England, again, a still richer country than Ireland, the whole expense of building and repairing the county courts came out of the Imperial Exchequer.
 MR. BAINES  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether the Mint are taking any measures to remedy the present deficiency in the supply of silver coin?
 MR. F. S. POWELL  asked when the Exhibition building would be cleared away? As it was rumoured that a Patent Museum was to be erected there, it was important to know when they would have possession of the ground.
 MR. F S. POWELL  wished to know whether they were to be applied to national purposes, or whether the Horticultural Society were to have the benefit of them?
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  observed the House had been told last year that Sir Edwin Landseer was going every day to the Zoological Gardens — he presumed at feeding time — to study the lions Now the public were told that they were only going to have one cast some time this year. He trusted, however, that the right hon. Gentleman would give them some more precise information on the point. He hoped the four would not be all alike, and he thought that it would have been better to have engaged four artists. He really could not understand why Sir Edwin Landseer should have been commissioned at all. That he was a great painter of animals was not a very satisfactory reason why he should be a good artist in bronze. Indeed, he should have thought that Sir Edwin was one of the worst persons to whom the work could have been intrusted, for the great merit of his painting was the great finish of his work, whereas what was wanted was something bold and striking.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had received no such Return as that to which the hon. and gallant Gentleman referred; but he had ascertained that so far as the information of the police went only one accident had occurred, which was occasioned by the breaking of a bough of a tree up which some person had climbed. In reply to the second Question, he might observe that the police had done all that by previous arrangement they had undertaken to do. On the 23rd instant he received official intimation from the War Department to the effect that, as 22,000 Volunteers were expected to assemble in Hyde Park on the following Saturday, there might be great difficulty in getting the various corps into the Park, unless the different approaches to it could be kept clear by a body of police. He immediately, on the receipt of the letter, directed Sir Richard Mayne to place himself in communication with the officers of the War Department and the Horse Guards, who undertook that the duties within the Park should be performed by the military. It was not, he believed, known at the time that
 809
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, that when the right hon. Gentleman admitted that a certain proportion of the Government property was rateable, the question assumed a much larger shape, and the question arose whether or not all the Government property should be rated, and dealt with like all other property. He could not agree with the hon. Member for Knaresborough (Mr. Collins), that this Vote should be rejected because all the Government property was not rated. It was but reasonable when the Government took possession of land and improved it by the erection of large buildings it should be rated in common with other property under similar circumstances at its full value. He should vote for the present amount, though he considered it should have been a much larger sum.
 SIR MATTHEW RIDLEY  said, there were in the Foreign Office four colossal lions of sufficiently large dimensions, executed by an eminent artist some years ago, and then only set aside by the vote of the late Duke of Wellington. They were to
 853 un fait accompli
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  did not admit that he had contemplated the extinction of the institution. He had promised to consider what reductions could be made, and he had carefully gone over the details of the establishment with that object in view, the result of which was that reduction had been made. He did not believe that it would be for the interest of Ireland to abandon the institution.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, the institution was something more than a school for land stewards; it was really a valuable national institution.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, it was perfectly true that last year he gave the Committee a pledge that the Agricultural Mode Schools should be reduced, and he had
 860
 MR. PEEL  said, an Act of Parliament was passed last Session authorizing the advance of money to make certain improvements in Howth harbour, in consequence of the number of fishing vessels that went near the harbour. At the same time, power was given for levying tolls on vessels that should frequent the harbour, and it was expected that a considerable sum would be received in that way which would clear off the amount expended.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he supposed it was the dirty linen of the establishment.
 MR. PEEL  said, that the arrangement by which one-half of the expense of Sheriff Court-houses in Scotland was provided out of the county rates, and the other half out of monies voted by Parliament, was based upon an Act of the Imperial Legislature. It did not follow from that that in Ireland the Assistant Barristers' courts ought also to be built or repaired from funds voted by Parliament. They should take into ac-count the relative apportionment of the local charges in each part of the United Kingdom. In Ireland the entire expense of the police force was paid out of the Imperial Exchequer, whereas in England and Scotland the county rates were charged with the cost of providing barracks for the police.
 MR. PEEL  said, the Vote was proposed with the view to fulfil engagements which had been entered into in 1850, when Sir G. C. Lewis was Secretary to the Treasury. At that time an application was made by the Isle of Man for a grant towards erecting an asylum for its criminal and pauper lunatics; and the Government undertook to provide half the expense necessary for erecting the proposed asylum provided the inhabitants of the island themselves would raise the other half. Considerable difficulty was however found in the island in raising the necessary sum. Matters remained so until 1858, when the island took upon itself to raise the necessary money by means of a local assessment on real property; and then, upon a second application, the late Government declared that they were willing to pursue the same course as had been suggested in the year 1850. The necessary preliminaries were accordingly completed, and plans and estimates were prepared for the buildings, which were approved by the proper authorities in this country. It was, therefore, deemed desirable to propose the present Vote to defray half the cost of the buildings. He might add that the revenue which the Exchequer received from the Isle of Man amounted to £27,000 a year, while the sum annually paid out of that revenue did not exceed £15,000, thus leaving a sum of £12,000 to be appropriated to the purposes of this country. He thought that, considering this circumstance, and that an asylum was necessary for the island, this Vote might be agreed to.
 MR. PEEL  replied that where the property acquired by the Government had been assessed for other local rates, contributions would be made to them also.
 MR. PEEL  said, it was proposed to deal with this money in the same way as the Vote of last year was applied. The rule laid down was, that where the assessable value of the Government property exceeded one-sixth of the assessable value of all the other property in the parish, a contribution should be made in aid of the local assessment. The Government believed that by that arrangement they would indemnify the other properties of the parish for any losses they might sustain by the establishment of Government property in their districts. It was also proposed to make contributions where the Government purchased property, and so withdrew it from the previous rateable area. They would contribute the same amount as they found the property paying when they took possession of it; but it would be a fixed amount, and would not be increased as the value of the property increased by the Government expenditure. Whether in respect to official residences the liability to pay rates should be placed upon those occupying the residences, or the Government, was a question which must depend upon circumstances. That question was, in fact, still under the consideration of the Government.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he did not intend to trouble the House at any length; but there were one or two points in the speech of the right hon Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer which he could not allow to pass without observation. In the first place, the Chancellor of the Exchequer accused his right hon. Friend of pleading the cause of the Irish distillers and of "the trade." Now that argument was a very inadequate description of the case. The case pleaded was not the case of "the trade" or of the Irish distillers, but of a country—of Ireland. A key to the line of argument adopted by the Chancellor of the Exchequer might be found when he said that the reduction of I duty proposed by Sir Robert Peel was one made under entirely different circumstances —that it was made at a time when the Irish duties differed from the English duties. He said that a measure which might be proper when a separate rate of duties existed might not be equally advisable when one uniform rate had been established, as was the case now. That was so; but in applying the principle of uniform duties the right hon. Gentleman forgot that the strength of a chain was to be tested by the strength of its weakest link, and it was to no purpose that he quoted the success of the system in England and Scotland, if it could be shown that a 10 s
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, on being asked how it was that, in introducing his new duty, he did not include in his view the large quantity of spirits taken out of bond at the close of the financial year 1859–60, admitted that it certainly was an oversight on his part, and added that the subsequent experience of the officers of Revenue had thrown further light on the matter. But his right hon. Friend's memory must be exceedingly short, because in his speech introducing the Supplementary Budget on the 16th of July, he plainly showed that this great augmentation in the delivery of spirits from bond had been brought under his notice; in fact, he made it part of his argument. This increase of the spirit duties, moreover, was not part of a great system of policy laying down the principles upon which those duties should be levied in future; it was strictly and purely a money question, the proposal being made at a late period of the Session, after the financial arrangements of the year were concluded, and expressly to meet a deficiency which only then became apparent. The right hon. Gentleman told them in his Budget speech in the following year, that he had expected to get £400,000 more from these duties than they had yielded in 1859–60; but that, instead of producing £400,000 more, they yielded £550,000 less, so that the total disappointment to the right hon. Gentleman that year was represented by a sum of £950,000. The £400,000, moreover, was only the amount estimated to be got in during the remnant of a financial year, a further increase of £350,000 being looked for in the year ensuing. To complete the statement of the results ensuing from this change of duty it would, therefore, be necessary to add that £350,000 to the deficit in the year following. No doubt the right hon. Gentleman got more than he expected upon colonial and foreign spirits; but his calculations and expectations when he raised the duty on homemade spirits from 8 s s 835 s
 SIR WILLIAM MILES  reminded his noble Friend that tins Vote was for plans which had been rejected and disposed of at once. Supposing any one not in Mr. Pennethorne's position had prepared these plans, would it have been fair to make him lie out of his money for eleven years?
 SIR WILLIAM MILES  thought the Government erred in the plan they adopted in paying the persons they employed. It appeared that in 1864 a large sum was due to Mr. Pennethorne for work commenced so long back as 1853. Would such a state of things be borne for one instant in a private establishment? Why could not the expense incurred for plans in one year be paid for and brought into the Estimates of the next year? This debt had been accumulating for eleven years, and he protested against such a mode of managing the public accounts.
 MR. LINDSAY : Considering the terrible struggle, Sir, now going on in America, and considering what is likely to be the result of that struggle, I consider that
 913
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Why a Return relative to Militia Regiments (Companies, &c.), moved for on the 8th April, has not been furnished?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that the Return ordered on the 8th of April relative to certain Militia Regiments would be laid on the table that night. The delay had been occasioned by the non-arrival of some of the Returns until the 25th of the present month.
 MR. COWPER  said, in reply, that the public would be admitted to see the picture as soon as Mr. Herbert had satisfied himself that the solution with which he intended to cover it was so fixed that the picture would not be injured by the dust which would necessarily arise from large crowds of people passing through the room, who, no doubt, would be anxious to see this admirable work. He was not able to say when the picture would be open to view, but when Mr. Herbert had satisfied himself that the public might be admitted, they would see it on Saturdays at the time they were admitted to the rest of the building.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that some weeks ago, in answer to a similar question, he had stated that the gun which had been manufactured for Mr. Lynall Thomas at the gun factory, on the distinct understanding that it should be at his own expense, had not been paid for. A letter was written to Mr. Thomas or rather to his assignees, for he had had the misfortune to become bankrupt, stating that if it were not paid for within a certain time — three months—the Secretary of State would then consider what steps ought to be taken to save the public the largest possible portion of the expenditure which had been incurred on this gun. The trials were suspended until the expiration of that period. The three months had now expired, and the gun was not paid for, and
 915
 LORD NAAS  said, that the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs had commenced his speech by stating that he had listened with attention to many speeches made on this subject by himself (Lord Naas) and other Members on that side of the House, who condemned the policy of the Government with respect to China, but that he had failed to find out what those opponents wanted. Now what was "wanted" had been explained over and over again. What was wanted was a policy of absolute neutrality between the two contending parties, and the issuing of strict orders to all our diplomatic, naval and military  employés 943 locum tenens 944 945 946 947 "I am of opinion that unless the force be properly constituted and relieved from the necessity of obeying the orders of the local Governors, it will do no real and permanent good, and that the officer who commands it will speedily find himself in a position neither compatible with his professional reputation nor with what is due to the character of a British officer." 948 949 950 951 952
 MR. WHITE  thought the policy which had been recommended by the hon. and gallant Member (Sir James Elphinstone) must lead to a considerable augmentation in the expenditure we had already incurred in China. The hon. and gallant Gentleman had certainly kept his constituents in mind. He had often told the House of the gunboats which were lying at Portsmouth doing nothing, and if his advice were adopted there soon would be plenty for all of them to do. [Sir JAMES ELPHINSTONE: They are all rotten.] He could quite believe the hon. Member for Lancaster (Mr. Gregson) that many gentlemen having a large stake in China praised highly the noble Lord and his policy; but what the House had to consider was, not the interest of a single class of traders, but of the British taxpayers. He could not but take notice at what a cost had our trade with China been purchased. In his Budget speech of 1863, the Chancellor of the Exchequer told the House of Commons that they had to face a war expenditure of £8,800,000, of which in 'round numbers £7,000,000 was caused by the war in China; and it was no exaggeration to say
 964
 MR. KINGLAKE  said, he thought that the noble Lord the Member for Cocker-mouth (Lord Naas) at the close of his speech had used a phrase which might, perhaps, be understood in a sense very different from that intended. The noble Lord spoke of "the ignominious withdrawal" of the force under Captain Sherard Osborn. He felt assured that the noble Lord in saying so meant only that the policy which had originated the expedition had totally failed, and did not express any condemnation of the skill and ability of Captain Sherard Osborn personally. [Lord NAAS: Hear, hear!] If there was any fault which a microscopic mind could discover in the conduct of Captain Osborn, it was that he might, perhaps, be deemed too scrupulous as to the point of honour, and too resolute in determining to escape from a position in which he might have been subjected to orders which he thought no British officer could execute without loss of reputation. Great credit was due to the gallant officer for his behaviour in that respect, and also for the success with which he had brought home has force—a feat which could not have been accomplished except by a man possessed of high personal qualities and ascendancy of character. There lay before Captain Osborn and his men the prospect of much
 965
 LORD NAAS  said, that nothing was further from his mind in the language he had used than to utter anything in the least disrespectful towards Captain Sherard Os-born. His remark applied not to the com mander, but to the expedition generally and the policy on which it was based, intending to convey that he did not think that an expedition sent out under the control of the Government could be withdrawn without ignominy. He thought the whole conduct of Captain Osborn from the beginning to the end of the transaction was beyond all praise. He had shown an utter absence of selfishness, and a sense of what was due not only to himself as a British officer, but to the interest and honour of England.
 MR. KINGLAKE  said, he entirely agreed with the hon. Member who had just sat down, that the speech of the right hon. Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe) was so clear and convincing as necessarily to satisfy the mind of every hon. Gentleman. Nevertheless it must be remembered that the Resolution of the 12th of April still remained on the records of that House, and the question to be determined was, what was the fittest manner in which the House should prepare itself to decide whether that Resolution should remain or be rescinded. He was one of those who thought that the moment the right hon. Member for Calne concluded his speech, the House was placed in a situation which enabled it without the slightest hesitation to rescind the Resolution. However, that was not the course taken by the Government. The noble Lord the Prime Minister had given notice of his intention to move for this Committee before the speech of the right hon. Member for Calne was delivered; but his belief was that
 991
 COLONEL DICKSON  moved the adjournment of the House.
 MAJOR KNOX  then moved the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, it was all very well for the hon. Member for Berkshire (Mr. Walter) to suggest that the matter should be dropped; but, in justice to the right hon. Member for Calne, it was only fair that there should be an inquiry by a Committee. For his own part, he was disposed to agree with the right hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich on the public question; but the right hon. Member for Calne had been charged with an offence of which he was totally incapable, and hence the necessity for the Committee assuming a judicial form. He hoped the Government would assent to the Amendment of the hon. Member for Hull, for every precedent was in favour of the nomination of the Committee by the Committee of Selection.
 MR. DENMAN  said, that the objections; taken by the noble Lord (Lord Robert Cecil) were really worth nothing, looking to the way in which this question had arisen. The noble Lord's first objection was that the course which his hon. Friend the Member for Hull (Mr. Clay) recommended would be unprecedented. But they were driven to take an unprecedented course where the case was in itself unprecedented; and he apprehended there was no precedent whatever for the case which had rendered it necessary to appoint this Committee. He had sat night after night, and heard all that had taken place with reference to this subject. He had heard it with great regret, because it appeared to him that the character of the House was greatly compromised by what had taken place. He had the misfortune to be pre-
 987 988
 MR. DENMAN  said that, so far from there having been a summoning of forces, he was accidentally present when the Motion came on. On the first night on the debate upon this subject he thought the character of the House was deeply compromised: and he believed it would be still more compromised if it consented to the Committee containing three avowed accusers of the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, that after the indulgence the House had accorded to him on two former occasions he should not detain them long; but the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs had used what he (Mr. Liddell) considered was an unfortunate expression that night, which required some answer. The hon. Gentleman said that if Her Majesty's Government had reversed their policy in China: disastrous circumstances would have followed. He thought he should be able to show that Her Majesty's Government had reversed their policy in China, and that, nevertheless, disastrous circumstances had ensued owing to that erroneous policy, When the last accounts left China a distinguished officer, holding Her Majesty's commission, was lying severely wounded far in the interior of the country. He had lost a large number of his officers and many others were wounded. His assistance was cut off, and he was opposed by an army flushed with victory, and composed of the most warlike, ferocious, and hardy portion of the population of China, and they might hear; by the next mail—which God forbid!— that that gallant officer and the whole of, his force were cut off. That state of things, he contended, had been occasioned by the policy of Her Majesty's Government. The Government at first allowed British officers to detach themselves from their regiments for the purpose of joining the Chinese, but they had since rescinded that Order in Council. They were right in doing so, but their previous policy in employing English officers to lead the Chinese in the field had not met with the approval of any of the authorities in China. One of the worst features of that policy had been to teach the Chinese to distrust their own native leaders, The Taepings had discovered that native troops led by English officers triumphed over those led by native officers, and the consequence was that they had availed themselves of the services of adventurers, and he had no doubt it would turn out hereafter that the disasters they had recently heard of were to be attributed to the generalship of those foreign leaders.
 958 959 960
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, the Admiralty had already received a Report from the official persons of all the damage done on the occasion of the trial. The Commander-in-Chief had made a Report which he should lay on the table, and it would give a detailed statement of whatever damage had been done.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET,  in reply, said, there would be no objection to lay the Report on the table, but it made no mention of any damage done to the vessel.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Sir, I have to state it will be my duty to bring on a Supplementary Estimate for the purchase of these Rams.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, his objection to the Amendment which the hon. Member had just moved was, in the first place, that he believed the course proposed to be entirely unprecedented; and, in the second place, that it would make an inquiry absolutely futile, and would not get at the truth which the House desired to obtain. It was unprecedented, because the instances cited by the hon. Member were wholly beside the point. The practice of the House he believed to have teen this, where a personal charge of corruption had been made against any Member of that or the other House of Parliament, or where there had been a charge connected with the electoral law of the country, in such cases, and such only, it had been assigned to the General Committee of Elections to select a Committee of five to inquire and judge. But there was another class of cases to which the present case belonged —a class with which the House had commonly to deal where great neglect or misconduct was imputed to a Department of the State, where Members sitting on both sides of the House were necessarily concerned; and he maintained if they searched the annals of the House they would scarcely find a single instance—certainly not a majority of instances—where a Committee of fifteen had been abandoned and a Committee of five substituted. Was the case of the Dover contract, where great misconduct was imputed to a Department, and in which the character of individuals was deeply concerned, sent to the General Committee of Elections? No, it was sent to a Committee of fifteen selected without any particular regard to the absence of partisanship on the part of its Members. Take the Crimean Committee, which had to investigate the alleged misconduct of a great public Department — that was nominated by the House. So they had had Committees on the Ecclesiastical Commission, on the Board of Trade, on the Admiralty, on the Foreign Office, in which charges more or less distinct had been brought against officers of the State, and the House
 986
 LORD ROBERT CECIL : Now it is the right hon. Gentleman's turn to misrepresent facts. ["Oh!"] The statement of the hon. Member for Dundalk (Sir George Bowyer), on which the right hon. Gentleman professes to ground the sudden change of opinion and conduct on the part of the Government, was not made until after the noble Lord had announced his intention of supporting the Amendment. Notice was given of the Motion for this Committee last night, but it was not moved. It was put off. [SIR GEORGE GREY: For a reason assigned.] And then secretly notice of an Amendment was given by the hon. Member for Hull (Mr. Clay), but no notice was given for that summons of forces necessary on such occasions. The summons, however, took place on the other side ["No!"], although not on this. If the noble Lord perseveres in taking so unjust a course, I, for one, will do my utmost to resist it.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he thought the House were indebted to the hon. Member for Rochdale (Mr. Cobden) for having given them an opportunity for the full discussion of this Question. After the able speech of the hon. Member and the eloquent remarks of his noble Friend the Member for Cockermouth (Lord Naas), he should not take up the time of the House, only it was due to the hon. Member that those who agreed with him should state their sentiments on this occasion. The Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs, in replying to the speech of the hon. Member for Rochdale, quoted figures, the accuracy of which he for one disputed; but, assuming them to be correct, the hon. Member treated this Question too much as one of trade, and did not seem to regard it as one affecting the dignity, the honour, and the character of this country. He felt that the honour, interests, and character of England had suffered by the policy which our Government had pursued in the East. If he wanted a proof of the evil results of that policy he should find it in the fact that there was now crossing the sea the vessel that carried the revocation of the Order in Council of 1862–3, allowing British subjects to serve in China. That revocation had been sent out before we received the painful intelligence which appeared for the first time in the newspapers of yesterday morning. What, he asked, would be the effect produced in China when they learned the terms of the revocation, and that Major Gordon would not be permitted to serve any longer with the Chinese troops, and when they considered that this step had been taken suddenly following the great defeat which he had experienced? This defeat, it appeared, took place at a distance of only seventy miles from the city of Ningpo, the radius of which was thirty miles. The Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs seemed to dispute that point; but any person who would take the trouble of reading the blue-book would find that thirty miles was the
 953 954 "Neither our own consciences nor the judgment of mankind will acquit us. When we are asked to what use we have turned our opportunities, we can only say we have filled our pockets from among the ruins we have found or made. An eminent French writer has observed that it is one of the glories of Christian civilization that it has caused a sentiment of repentance to find a place in the hearts of nations; let us hope that it will not be by pointing this moral that Great Britain, when she comes to review her connection with the furthest East, will make good her claim to the title of a Christian nation." "Our own advantage has been the regulating principle of our policy. We make exactions when it suits us, and do not exact them when inconvenient. Our diplomacy has resulted in confusion worse confounded. We shall probably now have to overthrow a Government we have been endeavouring to support. Had we been more considerate we should now have less to deplore." "Industrious of the needle and the chart, They rash full tilt to the Japonian mart; Bereft of shame, and prodigal of fame, Sell all of Christian to the very name." "We are threatened with the same dangers now, by persons wholly regardless of what may happen if they can only secure their own temporary advantage. But it is the business and the duty of all foreign representatives to prevent a few individuals thus endangering the relations and damaging the permanent interests of nations. It is better that there should be no trade than a trade carried on under such conditions as those which it has been attempted to impose. It is better that there should be no intercourse than relations of ill-will and conflict, threatening only war as a final result. 955 "I have also to observe that the Chinese Government in employing foreigners in its Custom House is doing what Foreign Powers have advised her to do, and following a system of improvement which in other countries has led to the best results. I expect Her Majesty's Consuls to set an example to foreign communities of treating with respect the gentlemen who hold these important offices, and who are not inferior to them either in character or social position. It is your duty in this way to strengthen their influence with the Chinese provincial authorities, as it is to that influence that we must look for the peaceful execution of treaty privileges, and for the gradual introduction of progressive ideas into Chinese administration which will enable us to accommodate its maxims to the growing development of trade." 956 "It is impossible to live among the people a long time and not take an interest in them, and in a certain way to like them. I have met with not only civility, but actual courtesy from them, and shall never regret the time I have spent among them. Heaven forbid that England or France should ever make confusion worse confounded by interfering in the struggle now raging. After seeing a great deal of both parties, I must confess I have no better opinion of one than of the other." 957
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  seconded the Motion.
 MR. LAYARD  said, it was curious that this Question, which had been brought under the notice of the House more frequently than any other foreign question this Session, should hitherto have received so little attention from hon. Members; and therefore he conjectured that the large audience which he saw assembled that evening, had been attracted thither not so much by the piece as by the actor. He thought that hon. Members might congratulate themselves on the speech they had heard. The hon. Member for Rochdale, who was always original in his views, had been more so than usual that evening. It was a speech characterized by the hon. Gentleman's usual ability and by unusual moderation and calmness. It fully deserved the attention of the House, and he would do his best to answer it. When, on a former occasion, there had been a difficulty in keeping "a House" to listen to a debate on China, that was not to be attributed to any desire on the part of the Government for a "count out," but rather to the fact that the House felt that the proposition to call on the Government to reverse its policy with regard to China involved a responsibility too great for the House to undertake; and he thought he could show that if Her Majesty's Government had simply followed the advice that was then given by Members of the House with regard to China, disastrous results would have followed both to our commerce and the lives of a number of British subjects in China. But after their speeches either no Resolution was put to the House, or
 934 935 The London and China Telegraph "The advance of the import trade from China is very remarkable, the value having doubled within the past two years. The imports of tea here have been very large—a considerable quantity now coming here for re-shipment to the States of America, Russia, and other parts of the Continent. Chinese wool keeps steady, although showing no very large increase, and a new item appears in the imports of cotton. Hitherto China has been an importing country, receiving large supplies from India, instead of an exporting country. The value of British exports to China has been rather on the decline of late years, but this arises in a great degree from the decrease in the shipped cotton manufactures, which is scarcely one-fourth of the amount of former years. Beer, coals, iron, lead, hardware, and other principal articles keep pretty steady." 936 "The total export of silk from Shanghai during the year (January to December) 1862 was 84,983 bales, against 70,459 during the preceding year; but of this increase 8,330 bales were Japanese silk re-exported, so that the increase on Chinese produce was only 6,194. A portion of this, too, may fairly be assumed to have been diverted from Ningpo, where the falling off during the last six months of 1862 was 6,620 bales; so that unless an increase be assumed at the latter port during the six months of Taeping occupation, the export of silk from the two ports has actually decreased. According to the annual circular of Messrs. Durant and Co., there was a diminished import here in 1863 of 21,400 bales of Shanghai silk, 800 of Canton silk, and 900 of Chinese thrown silk, but an increased import of 14,000 bales of Japan silk." 937 938 939 "On the appointment of His Imperial Highness to the post of Prime Minister, Sir Frederick Bruce had strongly urged Her Majesty's Government to support the Chinese Government—firstly, by protecting the ports against the rebels; secondly, by aiding it in the organization of a regular executive. The feeling of the British nation is always opposed to interference in the internal distensions of other States. Sir Frederick Bruce had, not with standing, on his own responsibility, authorized Her Majesty's army and navy stationed in China to defend the ports against the rebels: and it is entirely due to the exertions of the allied forces that Shanghai and Ningpo are not now in rebel possession." 940 941
 MR. LAYARD  said, he could not state that it would form part of the mediation, but no doubt it would form the subject of consideration on the part of the British Government.
 MR. LAYARD  replied, that the English Consuls had sent home Reports, but he must ask his hon. Friend not to press for an answer to his Question, as he was aware that mediation had been offered between this country and the Government of Brazil, that it had been assented to, and that negotiations were now going on; and he hoped nothing would be done which would tend to create any angry feeling on the part of the Brazilian Government; and that was the reason why he asked his hon. Friend not to press his Question.
 MR. LAYARD : Sir, in reply to my hon. Friend, I have to state that I am afraid I cannot give him any satisfactory information on the subject of his Questions. I am unable, without being better acquainted with the exact circumstances of the case, to say whether or not the proceedings of the Spanish Government have been consistent with the usages of civilized nations and the dicta of International Law. All I can state is, that on Saturday last Her Majesty's Government received despatches from the British Minister in Peru giving an account of what had taken place in these Islands. It appears that the Spanish Minister made a demand with which the Peruvian Government did not comply, and in consequence the Spanish Minister, in conjunction with the Spanish Admiral, without further notice, took possession of the Chincha Islands, which are very valuable, as they yield large quantities of guano. At the same time, it was stated that no contracts would be interfered with so far as concerned British
 912
 MR. LAYARD  said, the only objection was that the letters for which the hon. Gentleman moved had been given in the Slave Trade papers laid on the table of the House. With regard to the correspondence which might clear Consul Petherick's character as to his connection with the slave trade in the Upper Nile, none had yet been received. Despatches had arrived that day from Consul Petherick; but he had not had an opportunity of seeing them. Any information upon this subject he would give when it came to hand if the hon. Gentleman would defer his Motion.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Is it not the duty of the English Consuls who have remained in Brazil since the suspension of diplomatic relations to report to Earl Russell every thing which concerns the English Government or English interests; and have Her Majesty's Government not received from the Consul at Rio or otherwise information of a speech made in the Brazilian Senate, on the 24th of February, by M. Sinimbré, lately Minister of Justice, defending the conduct of the Under Secretary who wrote to ask the Judges to vote against Mr. Reeves, producing all the Correspondence with the British Legation, and describing Mr. Christie's Notes complaining of the Under Secretary's conduct, by order and with approval of Earl Russell, as "most impertinent?"
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he felt anxious to accede to the request; but he must ask whether the case of Mr. Reeves would form part of the mediation.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  moved for leave to introduce a Bill to facilitate the traffic of the Metropolis by improving the communications across the Thames. The street traffic of London was now exceedingly great, and the Southwark and Waterloo Bridges, being toll bridges, were comparatively little used by the public in consequence. The object of the Bill was to
 981 d
 MR. HODGK1NSON  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether it is intended that the price to be paid for the Confederate Rams shall be the subject of a Supplemental Vote, or whether it will be paid out of money already voted for some other purpose?
 MR. CLAY  said, he regretted that the right hon. Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe) would not serve on the Committee. He believed the right hon. Gentleman made it a point of honour not to be a judge in his own case. Every one's honour was in his own keeping, and there was no man whose honour was in safer keeping than that of the right hon. Gentleman. But it appeared to him (Mr. Clay) to be very difficult to divest this Committee of a character more than usually personal, and whenever that had been the case, and when the functions of the Committee had been of a judicial character, it had been very much the practice that the Committee should be named by the General Committee of Elections. That was the proposal which he should venture to make on the present occasion, and he should make it avowedly, but he hoped without offence, which it was far from his intention to give, with the view of excluding from the Committee alike the accused and the accusers. He knew it had been said that the character of the right hon. Gentleman had been sufficiently vindicated by the statement which he had made in that House, and that there was no longer any intention of making a personal attack upon him; but it was not the less true that one of the ablest Members of the Government had been driven from the position which he had occupied and from the duties which he had discharged greatly to the benefit of the schools and to the economical administration of the funds of his Department. He had not the honour of being one of the right hon. Gentleman's friends; nor had he the regret of having been one of his assailants; but if he had been one of the former, and still more assuredly if he had been one of the latter, he should not have been satisfied until he had done all in his power to rescind the Resolution which that House had undoubtedly arrived at upon a misconception of the facts. Even in the humble position which he had the honour to hold in the House, he did not sit easy under that degree of blame which attached to each and every one of them for the decision they had come to, and which he could not but consider very unfortunate. If that were so, it was impossible to divest the proposed inquiry of a personal character, not only as regarded the right hon. Gentleman, but also as regarded some of the subordinates in office, who seemed to have forgotten those sentiments of loyalty and honour which happily distinguished our public service; and per-
 984
 MR. CLAY  observed, that the noble Lord the Member for Stamford had accused the Home Secretary of a misrepresentation of facts without adopting the ordinary courtesy of giving credit to the right hon. Baronet of not intending to misrepresent. The right hon. Gentleman did not say the
 1001
 MR. WYLD  said, he rose to move an Address for Copies of all Correspondence between Her Majesty's Government and Mr. Petherick, Her Britannic Majesty's Consul at Khartouna, relating to Slavery and the Slave Trade that exists on the White Nile, from the year 1860 to the present time.
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, the noble Lord, I think, is more sanguine than the House generally is upon this Question; for, on looking over the debate which has taken place to-night, it appears to me that with but little exception there has been expressed nothing but general condemnation of all that the noble Lord has done and approved of with regard to China during the last thirty years. The hon. Member for Lancaster (Mr. Gregson) has that sort of confidence in the noble Lord which might have been reasonable in him some sixty or sixty-five years ago towards any person older than himself, for he follows the noble Lord with a docility which is perfectly charming; and, I suppose with a view of supporting the policy of the noble Lord, he has been touting in the City for the opinion of China merchants that might support the noble Lord's policy. I understand there are from 120 to 150 English merchants in China, some of whom have very extensive business connections, and some not very considerable. Well, the policy of the noble Lord which the hon. Gentleman supports, requires that there should be at least one ship of war from this country to sustain each three of those mercantile houses. That is not the state of things with regard to English commerce in any other part of the world; and I suspect that there is some radical error in this particular branch of our commerce, or in. our politics connected with it, which it is worth the while of the House carefully to consider. Now, the hon. Member told us, that some of these gentlemen who have been writing—I must term them, unin-
 975 976 977 978 979 980
 MR. HENNESSY  submitted that, after what had occurred, it was the duty of the House to adjourn the debate. The noble Lord at the head of the Government had made a proposition to the House, and in doing so had made no reference to the Amendment of the hon. Member for Hull, though he must have seen it on the paper. No sooner had the noble Lord resumed his seat than several hon. Gentlemen sitting behind the Treasury Bench, and well known as strenuous supporters of the Government, got up and spoke against the Motion. The hon. Member for Perth (Mr. Kinnaird) had made his maiden Opposition speech. There was something very remarkable about the whole transaction. Besides, the subject itself was one of such importance, and it had assumed so entirely new an aspect, that he thought the debate should be adjourned till it could be proceeded with in a fuller House. The hon. Gentleman concluded by moving the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, it was stated in 1861 by two Ministers of the Crown, one of them being the noble Lord himself, that in their opinion no despatches had passed between our own and the French Government in 1855 relative to Poland. Now it appeared that Lord Cowley had in that year read a despatch purporting to be from Lord Clarendon to the French Government on that subject, and he wished to know whether that despatch and others on the same subject will be laid on the table?
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he rose to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government, Whether certain Despatches of which he held copies, relating to the policy of the Government in reference to Poland, were authentic? With the permission of the House, he would read an extract from one of them, which was a despatch from Count Walewski to Count Persigny, dated October 15, 1855. It said—
 "Lord Cowley has read to me a despatch from his Government in reply to that which I commissioned you to deliver to Lord Clarendon, on the subject of the situation of the Kingdom of Poland, in its relation to the Treaties which determined its legal condition in 1815, and to the eventual basis of the future peace."
 MR. WALTER,  said, that it was at all times anything but an agreeable task to have to defend one's own appointment on a Committee, or to express any opinion as to one's fitness to serve on an inquiry. Certainly, as far as he was personally concerned, he would have preferred that this matter should have been permitted to drop altogether, without being referred to a Committee at all, as it was true wisdom in many cases to allow things to pass into oblivion, mid not pursue them  ad infinitum 995 996
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  said, there was another reason for the adjournment of the debate, and that was the absence of, the right hon. Member for North Stafford shire (Mr. Adderley), who had preceded the hon. Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe), in the; office which he recently held. The right hon. Member for North Staffordshire ought
 998
 MR. COBDEN : With the leave of the House I will withdraw my Motion.
 MR. COBDEN  rose to move the Resolution on the subject of China, of which he lad given notice, and said: The subject to which I venture to call the attention of the House has been introduced to our notice first by the noble Lord the Member for Cockermouth, and in the next place by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Northumberland, both with great ability; and it has also been referred to in another place by Earl Grey in a speech which displayed, I think, much wisdom and forethought. That being so, I should not now trouble the House on the subject had the circumstances in connection with our relations with China remained unchanged, or did they appear to be in a more satisfactory state than they were at the time when these Motions were brought forward. I cannot, however, read our more recent despatches from that country without feeling that there is little prospect of any amelioration taking place in those relations. I have read attentively the last blue-books, and I confess their perusal impressed me with a sense of great anxiety and uncertainty for the future. It seems to me that no one in China representing this country is satisfied with the present state of things. Our merchants are very much dissatisfied, and Sir Frederick Bruce, our Minister, appears to be in a state of despair, because the policy recommended by him, or carried out there with his acquiescence, seems to have failed and broken down, so that he has no longer any policy—so far as I can understand his despatches—in hand. Then with regard to our military commander, in his last despatch of December he has advocated the complete abandonment of that policy which we were led to suppose was the sole means of restoring pence and the authority of the Imperial Government. We must also recollect that the mail now on its way to China carries out with it an Order in Council, rescinding a former Order which allowed English officers to take service in the Imperial army—a step which in my opinion ought never to have been permitted. But we have it from Sir Frederick Bruce, that it is the foreign element in China which has gained all the late successes,
 917 918 919 920 921 922 923 "I am well aware that the river is likely to be overrun by foreign blackguards, knowing no law, and under no control; the more so that the Chinese authorities themselves shirk the responsibility, and take no steps to protect their countrymen." "The Europeans who caused the disturbance were in Chinese employ. It is a common practice to hire a foreigner 'to take care of the boat.' By this is meant hoisting a foreign flag when passing a native Custom House, and bullying any official who may get in the way." "I very much fear that the foreigners trading on this river in sailing boats are almost without
 924 Arrow 925 Arrow "I have to instruct you to execute strictly the treaty in the matter of clandestine and prohibited trade, particularly as against lorchas and small sailing craft engaged in the coasting trade. The class of men who sail these vessels, and their lawless and violent proceedings, make peaceful progress difficult, and do much to keep up a feeling of alarm and aversion to foreigners among the authorities and population of China. You must be aware, from your experience at Ningpo, that it is the employment to be found in these vessels which keeps up the class of lawless foreign adventurers which infests the ports, and is the hot bed of crime on the coasts of China." "A short time since Captain Dew destroyed a fleet of 200 pirate vessels at Chusan at the request of the Chinese authorities; and in the case now complained of, the officers of Her Majesty's ships, at the request of the people, destroyed these
 926 "As several respectable looking villagers on shore averred that these junks had been plundering them for some time past (a statement corroborated by a small mandarin), the commander of the larger steamer caused them to be set on fire." A laugh "A well-dressed and well-to-do people are not necessarily well-affected subjects, nor is a small mandarin necessarily a genuine mandarin. Who can say that in this case the parties complaining were not pirates in disguise, who, in their dread lest the Government vessels should arrest them, trumped up this story of the evil done by these junks with a view to inciting the commanders of British steamers to destroy them." 927 "Chinese vessels are on no account to be destroyed by Her Majesty's ships, unless the officers in command are requested by a competent Chinese authority to aid in doing so; nor unless, on the sea coast of China, a pirate is caught in the act of piracy." 928 929 "It is not by force and violence that His Majesty intends to establish a commercial intercourse between his subjects and China, but by the other conciliatory measures so strongly inculcated in all the instructions which you have received." "They refused to receive him at Canton; they had a perfect right to do so. For us to attempt to force the Chinese officials to receive an English official would be disgraceful." 930 "If they do not want to receive an English Minister with high-sounding titles, let us be content." 931 932 933
 MR. GREGSON  said, he had supported the hon. Member for Rochdale (Mr. Cobden) in his agitation for free trade, but he could not concur in much that he had said with regard to our policy in China. The hon. Gentleman had said truly that our objects in China were simply commercial, and he (Mr. Gregson) would have been delighted that our relations with that country had never been otherwise. He concurred with the hon. Member that it would be desirable next Session to have a Select Committee to inquire into our commercial relations with China; but he could not agree with him in thinking that those relations were unsatisfactory, because, whatever might be the internal dissensions of that country we had maintained amicable relations with the Government  de facto 961
 MR. WEGUELIN  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether Her Majesty's Government have received Despatches relative to the seizure of the Chincha Islands, belonging to Peru, by a Spanish naval squadron; whether it is the opinion of Her Majesty's Government that the occupation in time of peace of the territory of a friendly nation, without cause or declaration of war, and the forcible detention of individuals of that nation to serve as hostages, are proceedings consistent with the usages of civilized nations, or the dicta of International Law; whether Her Majesty's Government are prepared to admit the claim put forth by the Spanish Admiral and the Spanish Commissary, of the right on the part of the Spanish Crown to "re-vindicate" the property of said islands — a right, they assert, similar to that which Great Britain sanctioned when she restored the Islands of Fernando Po, Azmolon, and Coserco, after a formal and uninterrupted possession during a considerable number of years; and whether Her Majesty's Government will interpose their good offices to bring about a settlement of the trifling matter of dispute which has led to these high-handed proceedings on the part of the Spanish officials?
 MR. BAXTER  said, he would beg to ask the hon. Member for Sunderland, If he intends to bring on his Motion with reference to the Confederate States of America on Friday?
 MR. COX  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether he can make any arrangements by which the public may have the opportunity of viewing Mr. Herbert's picture in the Peers' Robing Room?
 MR. FERRAND  said, he wished to know, Whether the Admiralty intend to call for a Report from the Commander-in-Chief as to the damage done to the  Research
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  trusted that the noble Lord would recognize the necessity of adjourning the debate. It was impossible to suppose that the noble Lord had put on the paper a Motion which he did not mean to press to a division; but if the matter were now pressed, many Members would feel tomorrow that a decision had been taken on the question rather by surprise. It was well known that hon. Members did not usually remain till so late an hour, when it was not expected that
 999
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  thought the House was in some danger of forgetting the question which was really before it. It was not a personal question. The personal question, as affecting the character of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe) had, in the opinion of all the Members of the House, been closed by the statement which that right hon. Gentleman had made. The question affected the past conduct of the Education Department with reference to the Inspectors' Reports and the future mode in which they were to be treated. How stood the facts of the case? Some time ago, certain Reports were not forthcoming, and he asked why they were not produced. The explanation made by the right hon. Gentleman was not deemed satisfactory. A
 989 990 amende
 MR. GREGORY  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether the trials of Mr. Lynall Thomas's gun have been concluded; and whether, on the conclusion, a Report of the trials would be laid before the House?
 MR. MASSEY  said, he was not present either at the debate or the division winch had given rise to that discussion, and therefore the only information he possessed on the subject was derived from the records of their proceedings. It had been stated both by the hon. Member for Bradford (Mr. W. B. Forster) and the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir John Pakington) that no personal question was involved in that matter. Now, the Resolution adopted by the House on the 12th of April was in these terms —
 "That, in the opinion of this House, the mutilation of the Reports of Her Majesty's Inspectors of Schools, and the exclusion from them of statements and opinions adverse to the educational views entertained by the Committee of Council, while matter favourable to them is admitted, are violations of the understanding under which the appointment of the Inspectors was originally sanctioned by Parliament, and tend entirely to destroy the value of their Reports." 994
 COLONEL SYKES  complained of the policy pursued by the Government, and hoped that neither the House nor the country would be misled by the fallacies put forward by the Under Secretary of State. The hon. Gentleman had tried to delude the House into the notion that the other Powers represented in China were pursuing the same policy as ourselves. On the contrary, while our policy was one of direct intervention on behalf of the Imperialists, and slaughtering the Taepings, the other Powers were resolved not to take any active measures, except in defence of the treaty ports when attacked, and not to allow any of their officers to serve under the Chinese. All that he had shown in Mr. Burlinghame's despatch of the 30th June, 1863, to the American Congress, in the counted out debate of the 21st May, and he would not go over the facts again. The hon. Gentleman was in the habit of describing the Taepings as a sort of human locusts, who destroyed the fertility of the countries through which they passed. Since May, 1860, the Taepings had been in possession of the two great silk provinces of Chekiang and Kiang-su, embracing a vast area of country, and a population of upwards of 60,000,000 souls, and a large proportion of the silk used in this country had been drawn thence. This could not have been possible if the assertions of his hon. Friend
 966 The North China Herald, The Friend of China The Hong Kong Daily Press bona fide The North China Herald 967 "He had made him pay up to the last farthing some £27,000 for the wounded, and publish a proclamation taking the whole blame of the Soochow affair off his shoulders, and admit that he (the Futai) had acted wrongly."
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  explained that he drew his inference as to the Government desiring to get one of their number out of a scrape entirely from their own conduct.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he seconded the Motion. There was strong reason to believe that some arrangement had been made between the Government and the hon. Gentlemen behind them, he suspected that the Government had thought it necessary to make the proposal submitted by the First Minister, but on the distinct understanding that some of their habitual supporters should feel the pulse of the House, and endeavour to obtain its consent to a different proceeding, with the view of getting a late Member of the Government out of a scrape. Nothing more astonishing had occurred for a long time than the speech of the hon. Member for Perth against the Government. The noble Lord might have said to the hon. Member " Et tu, Brute
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the statement made by the right hon. Member for Staffordshire was that the practice originated by him went far beyond that which existed now. For his own part, he bad always thought that there was no personal question involved in the proposed inquiry; but the discussion of to-night had changed his opinion. The hon. Baronet the Member for Dundalk (Sir George Bowyer), bad distinctly asserted that Ministers were acting in concert with Gentlemen sitting behind them for the purpose of getting a late Member of the Government out of a scrape. It thus appeared that there was a personal question remaining, and, if suspicion still attached to the conduct of the right hon. Member for Calne, justice demanded that the Committee should be impartial. It could not be impartially constituted if, while his accusers were upon it, the right hon. Gentleman himself was excluded.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I am sure the right hon. Baronet would not willingly state what is not correct, He is mistaken in saying that the Government Tellers have been telling against the Government. The division which has just taken place was on the adjournment of the debate, and in voting against the adjournment we cannot be said to have been voting against our own Motion. I must repeat that the change of intentions on the part of the Government arose out of the debate. Charges of a personal character have been made, and while they remain, is it fair that the Committee should be appointed with three of the chief accusers as members?
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he had refrained for the last two years from taking part in the China debates, because his predictions with respect to the policy of the Government had been completely verified, and because he did not see any way out of the difficulties into which that policy had led us. But little as he agreed in the course which the Government had adopted with respect to China, still less I could he agree with the hon. Member for Rochdale (Mr. Cobden) in his plan for extricating us out of our embarrassing position. He had always held that our policy in China should be to support the Chinese chiefs in the provinces where we traded, to support the Imperial Government, and not to break in upon the much cherished privacy of their capital and so destroy the prestige of the rulers of the country: Those bands of marauders who were now called Taepings, but who went under different names at different times, had long been the bane of China. When he first visited that empire, which was in 1820, he saw villages that those ruffians had set fire to, and the marks of their brutality on the bodies of those whom they had plundered. Brigandage was the normal con-
 962 963
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether Sir Charles Fremantle's Report upon the state of the  Research
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that the right hon. Member for Staffordshire bad frankly admitted on a previous occasion that, when he held the office of Vice-President, he commenced a practice very similar to that subsequently adopted by the right hon. Member for Calne. He had always regretted that his right hon. Friend took that course, and the fact that be did so strengthened his wish for an inquiry, not into the conduct of any individual, but into the system pursued in the Education Office.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that this was not a question of rescinding a Resolution of the House. If any Member thought that the Resolution of the 12th of April ought to be rescinded, it was competent for him to-bring the subject before the House; but that would be a grave proceeding, and ought to be done in a frank, open, and straightforward manner. He thought that the Amendment of the hon. Member for Hull (Mr. Clay), and the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Tiverton (Mr. Denman), were founded on a complete misapprehension of the nature of this Committee. The hon. Member for Hull said that when a Committee was appointed to investigate a charge of personal misconduct, it was the practice of the House to refer the appointment of the Committee to the Committee of Selection. The cases of Lord Exeter and Sir James Graham were personal charges; but was that the case now? He denied it altogether. He did not understand that the Government proposed, or that the House adopted, the appointment of this Committee with any intention of discussing a personal charge against the right hon. Member for Calne. He agreed in the opinion which
 992 993
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I can retort on the noble Lord, that the proceedings on the other side of the House are such as very naturally to excite on this side the suspicion of a surprise. The noble Lord having given notice of a Motion, a Member not connected with the Government put an Amendment on the paper; but no one had any reason to suppose that, without any warning, the noble Lord would withdraw his own Motion in favour of the Amendment. To-night, also, we have seen the Tellers of the Government telling in a division against the Motion of the Ministers. A more remarkable deviation from the usual practice of the House, or a more decided case of surprise, I do not recollect. It is a case in which independent Members
 1000
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I really think the course of proceeding on the other side of the House is not called for by the occasion. The most formal notice was given of the Amendment, and it is impossible to say that the House has been taken by surprise. This is not a new subject. It is one which every Member must have had in his mind; and I do not see what is to be gained by adjourning the debate. The question can be decided now as well as to-morrow or the next day, and there ought to be no unnecessary delay. The character and feelings of individuals are concerned, and the matter ought not, therefore, to be hung up from day to day, when the House is perfectly able to decide on it at once.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : As it is evident that hon. Gentlemen opposite wish to keep us here, and as I am sure the decision of a much fuller House will confirm the opinion which the majority has expressed to-night, I shall not object to the adjournment of the debate.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  thought there was a great deal of force in the arguments used by the hon. Members for Hull and Salford; and, as the House generally
 997
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I am anxious to say a few words before the House conies to a determination on the Question which has been proposed by my hon. Friend the Member for Rochdale. There has been this remarkable character in the discussion —that while my hon. Friend took a very wide view of the subject according to his notions, those who have followed him have taken a narrow and confined view of it, and have limited their observations chiefly to the recent transactions of the Government with regard to their policy in China. I will, in the first place, deal with the remarks made by the noble Lord (Lord Haas) and those who agree with him. What they have blamed has been the course which Her Majesty's Government have taken latterly in regard to the expedition of Captain Sherard Osborn, the employment of Major Gordon, and the engagement of civilians to assist the Chinese Government in the collection of their customs duties and other matters of that kind. Now it was, I think, almost unnecessary that they should express their opinions with regard to the expedition of Captain Osborn, or the employment of Major Gordon and others; because we stated on a former occasion that the Orders in Council under which those officers were employed had been revoked, and
 968 969 970 971 972 973 974
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  rose to propose the nomination of the Select Committee upon Education (Inspectors' Reports), The composition of the Committee would not be so satisfactory as he had hoped to make it, as his right hon. Friend the Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe) had declined to serve upon it. He proposed that the Committee should be constituted of the following Members:—Mr. Bruce, Sir John Pakington, Mr. W. E. Forster, Mr. G. Hardy, Mr. Dodson, Mr. Adderley, Viscount Enfield, Lord Robert Cecil, Mr. Walter, Mr. E. Egerton, Mr. Clay, Mr. Hennessy, Mr. Baxter, Mr. A. Mills, and Mr. Buxton.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, as he understood the Question of the hon. Gentleman, it was whether certain despatches to which he alluded, and which were addressed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs at Paris to the French Ambassador here, and  vice versâ
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he could not give an answer off hand with respect to the despatches alluded to. He would, however, examine into the matter, and see whether they could be produced.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL , in reply, said, the offer was made by the gentlemen representing themselves as the owners, namely, the Messrs. Bravay. No such proposal emanated from the builders, Messrs. Laird.
 MR. HENLEY : I hardly intended to take part in this discussion; at all events, I do not mean to say much. After the strange statement of the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, I must allude to it. He has told us that he speaks as a Churchman when he says that it would be of great advantage to us to be relieved from the bondage of the Prayer Book and Articles. That is a strange statement. I cannot understand one, who, at a mature age, boasts of being a Churchman and speaks of the bondage of the Prayer Book and the Articles. The question now before the House is, whether we shall go into Committee on the Bill; but, indisposed as I generally am to take part in second discussions upon almost the same thing, I feel bound to say that the course taken upon the second reading by the authors of the Bill, what they stated and still more what they denied, gives me the strongest grounds for thinking that the moving of the Amendment was nothing more than fair and prudent Parliamentary action. The hon. Member for Huddersfield (Mr. Leatham) told us unmistakably that the Bill does not go far enough. The hon. Member for the city of Oxford (Mr. Neate), in equally plain terms, said that in his judgment the
 1038 1039
 MR. TREFUSIS : I hope, Sir, that the great importance of the Bill, the details of which we are now asked to discuss, the great difference of opinion which existed at the time of the second reading, and the different views which were taken by the principal supporters of this measure as to its bearing and effect upon the University of Oxford, will be reasons sufficient to justify me in asking the House once more to consider, whether it will assent to its further progress during the present Session. The arguments against the Bill have already, on a former occasion, been very fully stated, so that I can promise to be brief. I shall endeavour also, in the few observations which I shall address to the House, to imitate the fairness and moderation with which the hon. Gentleman the Member for East Sussex has conducted the discussion on this Bill, and which have contributed so much, in my opinion, to raise a question which might easily be made the subject of angry controversy, far above the level of a mere party conflict, and to place it in such a position before the House that its merits and demerits may be calmly and temperately discussed. The question itself is necessarily one of those the discussion of which is attended with some inconvenience in this House, because it involves allusions to those differences of religious opinion which it is never desirable to bring prominently forward; but when these questions are forced upon us, it is necessary to
 1003 statu pupillari 1004 "This Bill would destroy to a great extent the existing securities that the government, teaching, and discipline of the University and of its Colleges and Halls shall be intrusted to members of the Church of England: that, as to the Colleges generally, it would remove the most important of these securities, whilst with respect to the University as a whole it would abolish them altogether." 1005 1006 bonâ fide 1007 1008
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, he wished to set the hon. Member for North Warwick shire right on one point. The Bill was not regarded with disfavour by Scotchmen, as the hon. Gentleman seemed to think. They did not believe that the operation of the Bill would be to exclude them from the privilege of taking degrees at Oxford, which they now possessed. In fact, the academical body of the Universities of St. Andrew's and Glasgow had petitioned in favour of the Bill, and what they deprecated was the introduction of the Amendment suggested by his right hon. Friend (Mr. Chichester Fortescue), and by hon. Members on the other side, which, they said, if introduced, would make the governing body of the University more exclusive. He wished to enforce again upon the House to the best of his power, the point which had been so well put by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Louth, that this was not a question between Nonconformists and the Church of England, it was rather a question of the liberty of the laity of the Church of England, upon whom, by the present regulations of the University, not of the State, a test was imposed, upon the attainment of academical degrees, which was imposed upon no other layman within Her Majesty's dominions. He would remind the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) that nine-tenths of the laity of a certain age in tlie Church of England would decline to take that test if they weighed every word of it, He did not know whether the right hon. Gentleman had lately refreshed his memory with the tests, but one of them, which was
 1042 bonâ fide 1043
 LORD ROBERT CECIL : Sir, I received last night, by the courtesy of the hon. Gentleman, an intimation that he intended to attack me to-day about our late visit to Oxford. Well, I am tolerably familiar with the word "attack," but I confess I was utterly puzzled to think what possible connection there could be between the question of this Bill and the harmless, simple, and obvious Conservative truths which I had uttered at Oxford; and I was still more puzzled to know how any attack upon me in reference to the late meeting could possibly be introduced upon the Motion for going into Committee upon this Bill. Still, as the hon. Gentleman has thought fit to take this occasion for announcing the strength of his own party in Oxford, which he thinks requires an advertisement of this kind, and as he has composed for the occasion a sort of political epitaph for the Chancellor of the Exchequer in anticipation of the dissolution which he evidently sees in more than one sense to be impending, I suppose it is necessary for me, though I feel it is somewhat irregular in discussing the question immediately before us, to notice the hon. Gentleman's remarks. In the first place, I beg to assure the hon. Gentleman, that if he was present at the meeting to which he refers he would not have talked of the dormant Toryism of the University of Oxford—he would have seen with his own eyes that the Toryism of Oxford was as wide awake Toryism as any he had ever seen in his life. The hon. Gentleman says that the banquet was a failure, because the people with whom he sympathizes were not present at it. I am afraid that if they had been present and had expressed such opinions as those which have fallen from the hon. Gentleman, their persons would not have survived the banquet, inasmuch as that dormant Toryism of which he spoke was in that condition that I do not think it would have endured without some very practical manifestation of vigour the presence of those with whom the hon. Gentleman sympathizes in opinion. But, Sir, I
 1030 Cheers and counter Cheers 1031 1032 bonâ fide bonâ fide bonâ fide 1033
 MR. AYRTON  expressed his opinion that the Bill deserved more discussion than it had hitherto received, but it was too important to be discussed at that late hour. The Bill was an attempt to improve the law relating to election petitions. There were already two Acts of Parliament on the subject, one regulating the presentation and trial of petitions complaining of undue elections, and the other dealing with the question of the withdrawal of election petitions. In the latter Act very careful provisions were embodied for the purpose of prosecuting an inquiry into corruption and bribery, when the original petition was withdrawn, and there was ground for suspecting collusion. It appeared to him that those two acts dealt with the whole question as far as was practicable. However, the hon. Member who introduced the present Bill thought that the existing law allowed undue facilities for the presentation of petitions for which there was no solid foundation. Still it would be impossible to legislate in the way proposed by the hon. Member, for if the right to a seat in that House was to be regarded as a personal right concerning the sitting Member, the electors, or unsuccessful Member, all litigation with regard to that right must be subject to the ordinary conditions under which all other rights were tested and decided—by judicial
 1045
 MR. C. C. CLIFFORD  said, it was erroneous to suppose that those who supported the Bill were inimical to the University of Oxford He was peculiarly identified with that University; and, so far from considering the Bill was prejudicial to it, in reality he believed it would he of great strength and advantage to it. He had no wish to be relieved from his subscription to the Articles. He believed few men had taken more oaths than he had himself, and he could assure the House his conscience was perfectly easy on that score. It had never been his wish to promulgate any doctrine contrary to the Church; and, indeed, the peculiar emphasis with which he had pronounced the words "horrible and damnable doctrine," and the sternness with which he had regarded the Proctor, who at that day was supposed to be in-
 1014 Apologia pro Vitâ Suâ 1015 The Hind and the Panther "Our penal laws no son of yours acquit, Our tests exclude you from all benefit." "—with resistless sway, Would sweep the pastors and their flocks away." 1016
 MR. NEATE  said, he must admit that there was a  primâ facie 1026 Cries of 1027 Cries of 1028 1029 "Si Pergama dextra Defendi possent, etiam hac defensa fuissent,"
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that since the second reading of the Bill it had been represented to him that the test of  bonâ fide bonâ fide 1041
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he thought he could point out to the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Moor) an easy mode of escape from the extraordinary difficulty in which he found himself involved. The hon. Gentleman had voted for the second reading, thereby affirming the principle of the Bill; but since that time he had discovered from those who sat around him, that there was a portion of the Bill from which he, as a Member of the party opposite, was bound to differ, and he thought there was no possible mode of escaping the difficulty except by refusing to go into Committee. But if in Committee, where Amendments might be properly made, a proviso was introduced in the first clause, to the effect that the degree of Master of Arts would not constitute a qualification for being a member of Convocation, or holding any office formerly held by a member of the Church of England, the object of the hon. Gentleman might be attained. As an affectionate member of the University of Oxford, he (Mr. C. Fortescue) thought he could not give a better proof of the sincerity of his conviction as to what was the principle of the Bill than by saying that it was as a Churchman that he thanked his hon. Friend for having introduced the Bill, and for having given them an opportunity of getting rid of the bond-
 1037 ex animo
 MR. LEATHAM  said: Mr. Speaker, the objection of the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down (Mr. Trefusis), which relates to that portion of this Bill in which as a Nonconformist I feel more especial interest, is comprised in the assertion that if passed it will sever the connection between the Church of England and the governing body of the University. I have listened attentively to the speech of the hon. Member and to those which have been delivered on previous occasions by hon. Members opposite, and I find the same reiteration running through them all, but without any very formidable attempt to justify it by an appeal to reason, and without even the rudiment of an attempt to support it by an appeal to fact. But hon. Gentlemen seem to think that they can make up for the disuse of reason by the abuse of a sister faculty. They have made powerful appeals to the imagination, and have told us, that if this Bill should pass it will be necessary to establish another University with "cardinal and fundamental features of exclusion which shall shut out the sons of Dissenters." Now, Sir, I am aware that hon. Gentlemen, when they discuss Church questions or quasi-Church questions, have by long usage established for themselves something like an ancient right of being as courageous and nearly as illogical as they please; but I do think that the use of such an argument as this amounts to an abuse of even the right which they have of being illogical. It seems to me to be all of a piece with the argument of the noble Lord the Member for Stamford (Lord R. Cecil), who, when my right hon. Friend the Member for Kilmarnock brought in his Bill last year, assured us, with a gravity befitting the occasion, that it was calculated to lead to the election of a Jew Vice Chancellor, and afterwards proceeded to argue that when the Jew Vice Chancellor was elected, the
 1009 1010 1011 1012 1013
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, he thought that the hon. Member for the City of Oxford had done good service by alluding to the speech of the noble Lord at Oxford. If it
 1034 1035 1036
 MR. MOOR  said, that although he was unwilling to intrude himself on the attention of the House, yet, in the position in which he was placed, he could not give a silent vote. He had voted for the second reading of the Bill, because he conceived that it was time that the Roman Catholic
 1025
 MR. SPEAKER  intimated to the hon. Gentleman that he was passing away from the Question before the House.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that if the hon. Member for Cork had thought there had been anything out of order, it was his duty to have called attention to it at the time.
 MR. DODSON  said, that he understood some hon. Members to state that they took the unusual course of opposing the Bill going into Committee because they did not now why they voted against the second reading. It was also urged as an objection to the measure, that its promoters had given no notice of any Amendments with regard to it. The promoters introduced the Bill in the form which they approved, and it was not for them to give notice of Amendments, but for other persons who desired to see changes in the Bill. The hon. Member for North Warwickshire seemed to have discovered that there was some danger to the Church of England in the proposed declaration that the person making it was a  bona fide bona fide 1044
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he for one had no objection to show his whole hand. The proposition before the House was to do away in certain cases with the use of tests. Now he objected to the use of such tests, and he would state the reason why. A test was the means to an end, but what was the end sought—to preclude the admission of persons to the privileges conferred by the great Universities who were not members of the Church of England. But did the test in question, he would ask, effect that purpose? It was true it excluded some persons, but it was a sort of cobweb which let through the large flies and caught only the small. There was a large body of educated men in this country who did not believe in the Church of England, but who said to themselves, "We will not incur the imputations which are invariably cast on men not of the orthodox creed, and, as we do not much care about the matter, we will conform." Could one single man of that class be excluded under the operation of the test? He would, in illustration of his argument, advert to two cases which just occurred to him. There were two men well known in English literature who, as everybody was aware, had not a particle of faith in the doctrines of the Church of England—he alluded to Gibbon and Hume. Could Gibbon have been excluded by the test—he did not mean when he was a boy, and might have some conscientious scruples on the subject, but when he became a man? Could Hume have been excluded? Not a bit of it. He would have laughed at the test, and said after his own fashion that it was a bigoted contrivance which he would cast to the winds. The case, therefore, stood thus, that while the most thorough infidel and sceptic might obtain admission into Oxford, conscientious persons like the hon. Member for Huddersfield, who might be influenced by scruples, were kept out. And what harm, he would ask—seeing that into that House Jew, Infidel, or
 1021
 MR. J. TOLLEMACHE  said, he wished to ask Mr. Attorney General a question with respect to the Birkenhead Iron-clads. It appeared that these vessels had been sold to the Government for £220,000,
 1002
 MR. COLLINS  seconded the Motion. He opposed the Bill on the ground that
 1046
 MR. SCULLY  said, he had not intended to make any imputation upon the University. He had not interfered, because he did not wish to spoil sport; but as he had himself been called to order, he wished to know whether that disorderly discussion was to be continued.
 MR. SCULLY  said, that he should cheerfully submit to the authority of the right hon. Gentleman; but, for his own part, he thought that the differences of religion which prevailed in the United Kingdom and their origin were matters which were closely connected with the Question. It was true that the best and highest education was to be obtained at the Universities, but it was equally true that the worst and lowest education was also to be acquired there. The late Mr. Thackeray was strongly convinced of the necessity of University reform, and said in one of his works—
 "I should like to know how many scamps"—Mr. Thackeray used a stronger word—"I should like to know how many scamps our Universities have turned out, and how much ruin has been caused by that system which is called in England the education of a gentleman.' "
 MR. SCULLY  said, he had an Amendment on the paper to refer the Bill to a Select Committee, and he trusted the hon. Gentleman who had moved that the House go into Committee on the Bill that day six months, would accept his (Mr. Scully's) Amendment, because if he did not he would be prevented from taking the opinion of the House upon it. If the hon. Gentleman's Amendment was carried, the Bill would be done with, and if it was not carried the House would at once go into Committee, and he would thus be prevented from moving that the Bill be referred to a Select Committee. In his opinion the Bill promised but a miserable instalment of privileges to which the great bulk of the people were entitled to admission. It was not reasonable, he contended, that the  bonâ fide 1023 bonâ fide bonâ fide 1024 bonâ fide
 MR. MORRISON  pointed out that after the Bill had been deliberately discussed on the second reading, and affirmed by a majority, it rested with those who opposed it again at that stage to state what new reasons had arisen for inducing the House to change its opinion. As, however, the supporters of the Amendment remained silent, it must be presumed that they confessed that the weight of argument rested with the supporters of the Bill, and that they meant to rest solely on the  vis inertiae 1017 1018
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, as to the subject which had been discussed by the hon. Member for the City of Oxford and the noble Lord, he should like to say just one word. The noble Lord had fully vindicated his character for plain speaking in that House, without the possibility of being subjected to a charge of reticence, when he announced that no man could be a good Churchman unless he shared the political opinions of the noble Lord. He had the misfortune to differ from the noble Lord, and their difference, he believed, consisted in this, that they totally dissented from one another as to what constituted a good Churchman. He (Sir George Grey) believed that man to be a good member of the Church who, while listening to argument, was not opposed to improvement; who showed his attachment to the Church not by a blind adherence to everything that existed, but who advised, counselled, and was ready to make concessions when by concession a practical grievance might be removed; and who by conciliating the goodwill of those who were outside the pale of the Church invited them to come within its fold, while he firmly resisted every innovation that would tend to impair its stability. Having said so much as to the doctrine laid down by the noble Lord, he came to the subject immediately before the House. Having voted for the second reading of the Bill he felt bound to vote for going into Committee. The only ground upon which the Bill had been opposed on the second reading was this, that its principle was the severance of the connection between the University and the Church, because it would admit into the governing body of the University persons who were not members of the Church. But would his hon. Friend who made use of that argument, and who said but for that he would have hesitated to oppose the Bill, or would any other hon. Member, maintain that such a declaration as was now required ought to be exacted from a layman upon taking a Master's degree? It had been stated upon the second reading by those who had charge of the Bill, that it was perfectly competent for those who saw danger in the measure to give notice of Amendments. He (Sir George Grey) stated upon the second reading, and he would re-
 1040
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House had stated that the principle of the Bill had been accepted by the House on the second reading on the 16th of March, and that they ought not to attempt to reverse the decision at which the House had then arrived. But he (Sir Stafford Northcote) contended that the principle of the measure had not been accepted by the House on the 16th of March. The fact was that the Members who then voted for the second reading were not agreed among themselves as to what was the nature of that principle; and many of them had declared that they would not support it if it were really what it had been described to be by those Members who had gone out with them into the same lobby. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary had stated upon that occasion that they should regard the Bill as an objectionable measure, and would vote against the third reading if they thought it to be of the character which the hon. Member for Huddersfield had just described. They added that if certain Amendments were introduced into the Bill they should continue to give it, their support, and it was expected that in the interval which had since elapsed the Government would have made up their minds as to the plan upon which they would recommend the House to proceed, and would have placed upon the notice paper the Amendments which they deemed to be necessary in order to make the Bill what it ought to be. Instead, however, of that having been done, the House stood exactly at the present moment in the same position in which it was placed on the second reading, no indication having been made from the Government or any other quarter as to the Amendments which it was expedient to introduce. Now, considering the im-
 1019 1020
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  seconded the Amendment.
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  said, when the hon. Member for Plymouth (Mr. Morrison), in his able and temperate speech, observed that all the arguments; on the subject of this Bill had been exhausted, he was disposed to concur with him. But the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down had imported into the consideration of the question an argument which he believed had never occurred to any other Member. The hon. and learned Gentleman had fallen into a transparent fallacy in losing sight of this fact, that all human legislation would break down at some point or another if they did not give mankind some credit for honesty. It was true, as he had argued, that there might be persons entirely without honour whom it was in vain to hope to exclude by any test whatsoever; but that argument, he was happy to think, was not applicable to the case of all men. The tests, he might add, were imposed in the particular instance under discussion not to preclude those who were not members of the Established Church from being educated at the University, but for the purpose of maintaining there on the whole a certain current and tone of religious teaching. He should not, however, have risen to speak on the subject, but for the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down. He wished to press upon the House what had been already put by the hon. Member for Stamford (Sir Stafford Northcote), that they were not taking any unusual or unfair course in asking the House to re-consider the decision they had taken on the second reading. He would place before the House the actual position in which they now stood. On his side of the House they were contented with the present state of the law; nevertheless, some hon. Gentlemen said that if the Bill were amended in certain directions they would, though unwillingly, be disposed to assent to it. On the other side, the hon. Mover and some of his Friends repudiated entirely the amendments suggested. They certainly said they would consider them,
 1022
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  observed, that in that case as well as in those of all rural schools where the average of attendance was less than 100, no deduction would be made within the limits indicated by the Minute.
 MR. LEVESON-GOWER  said, he very much regretted that the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire was not present on the evening when the Question was discussed, for if he had been he would not have supposed that the noble Lord at the head of the Government had not adopted the Amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Hull. The noble Lord gave that proposition his cordial support; and, probably, if the right hon. Gentleman had been present he might have come to the same conclusion. The right hon. Gentleman described the proposition of the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock as taking the House by surprise; but any man of his experience might have known that the plan there suggested was constantly adopted in respect to Committees like that under discussion, and the Chairman of Ways and Means the other night distinctly pointed out that mode of proceeding, which seemed to meet with the approval of the House. He dissented from the statement of the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, that the question of policy in that instance was of more importance than the personal question, for he thought that the personal honour of a Member of that House and of the servants of the Crown was certainly of greater importance than the question whether the Reports of the School Inspectors should be curtailed or not. Hon. Gentlemen seemed to think that the individual expression of opinion which had taken place was a complete vindication of the right hon. Member for Calne, but he could
 1090
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that a Report of the accident had been supplied, but up to the present time no further details of the circumstances under which the boat had been struck had been received. A full Report had been called for as to the circumstances attending the accident, and also as to the precautions that ought to be taken to regulate the Artillery practice. In the meantime, orders had been sent by telegraph to suspend all further Artillery practice until that Report had been received.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON,  in reply, said, that complaints had been received of the Percussion Caps supplied to the Volunteers. No complaints had been received from the Army. An improved kind of Percussion Cap had been submitted to the War Office and was now undergoing experiment. Meanwhile, the Horse Guards
 1065
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, that the distinction between endowments and local contributions was broad and intelligible. A local contribution implied personal sacrifice and a continuing interest in the welfare of the school on the part of the giver. If a school were ill-conducted the contributor would evince his dissatisfaction by withdrawing his subscription; whereas the endowment remained the same under every possible circumstance. The course which the Privy Council had taken up to that time with respect to endowments was, he must admit, somewhat inconsistent. Formerly grants in aid of schools were made under various heads—augmentation of masters, capitation grants, and payments to pupil-teachers. The augmentation to masters was never paid unless a certain sum was provided by the school, out of the fees or local contributions, and the endowment was left out of consideration. In the case of the capitation grant there was no such provision. It was made in every case where the funds of the school, created out of fees, local contributions, and endowments, reached the sum of 14 s 1080 s s s s 1081 s 1082 s d 1083
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he thought that the manner in which the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had mixed up almost everything in the world in his speech must have rendered many of his remarks unintelligible to everybody but himself. The way in which he had jumbled together clauses and details of this Bill and that Bill, with recommendations of one Commission and recommendations of another Commission, interspersing the whole with comments on the practice and procedure of the Court of Chancery, had produced on his own mind only one impression, namely, admiration at the right hon. Gentleman's extraordinary skill in mystifying a very simple subject. The course taken by the right hon. Gentleman reminded him of the custom adopted in another country on the canonization of saints. One advocate pleaded elaborately all the virtues of the person to be canonized, and on another devolved the less agreeable and more invidious office of putting forward all his vices and faults. The right hon. Gentleman undertook the more agreeable of these tasks. There was no legal institution in regard to which any alteration or improvement was recommended but he was sure to be found its most able and courageous champion. Under his magic touch it assumed the aspect and wore the colours of the most delightful perfection. It was the model for all the world, and the astonishing thing was that anybody could think it capable of the least improvement. Even the right hon. Gentleman's former opinions were sacrificed upon the altar of his country. He had gone into the proceedings that were adopted on this subject in 1856, and certainly his remarks were comforting and encouraging. As the right hon. Gentleman had yielded to the opinions of others on that occasion, and now came
 1114 "Whereas the present mode of proceeding in the High Court of Chancery in Ireland, by orders of reference, reports, and exceptions, is attended; with delay, expense, and other inconvenience, and it is expedient that every cause or matter should be prosecuted through all its stages before and under the direction of the same Judge or I judicial officer, &c." 1115 1116
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, he regretted he had not been present at the discussion of the previous evening, because the question raised was one of considerable importance, and it behoved the House to decide deliberately and calmly. His opinion was that questions involving imputations on the conduct and business of public departments could not be tried satisfactorily by Committees that were ordinarily appointed. Those Committees were composed of fifteen Gentlemen, who were selected, not because they were supposed to be impartial and unbiassed, but on the principle of taking half-a-dozen Members of strong opinions from one side of the House and balancing against them half-a-dozen from the opposite side. When the Committee came to decide, it was usually found that they were very evenly balanced, and perhaps the Chairman gave his casting vote in an inquiry in which a really judicial decision was required. He remembered a very analogous case which happened a few years ago—namely, the Committee appointed to consider the question of contracts. Upon that occasion he took objection to the construction of the Committee, and the same objection he still retained, which was this—that a Committee
 1085 Cries of
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, he proposed to follow the course adopted in the case of Mr. Stonor some ten years ago. He should, therefore, now move That two other Members of the House be named by the General Committee of Elections, and appointed to serve on the Select Committee, to examine Witnesses, without the power of voting.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he wished to know from the Chancellor of the Exchequer how he proposed to carry out the suggestion of the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock. He might be wrong, but he certainly did not understand that suggestion had been made the other evening by the hon. Member for Hull (Mr. Clay); for, speaking after him, one objection he took to his proposal was, that in a Committee of five chosen by the Committee of Selection no one would be present to act the part of counsel, and considerable difficulty might therefore occur. Although he still thought that a Committee of fifteen would be the most just, yet after what he had just heard from the hon. Member for Birmingham he thought it would be hardly fair to the right hon. Member for Calne to insist on his own opinion.
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, he would also beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether Her Majesty's Government exercise at the present moment any control over the territory claimed by the Hudson's Bay Company, and stated in their Prospectus issued in July last to comprise 1,400,000 square miles; and, whether it is in contemplation to establish a Crown Colony in any portion of this territory?
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, that the Court of Inquiry held upon Acting Master Danenhowen or Donovan, of the United States' ship  Vanderbilt Saxon
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, it is very important to bear in mind, whatever decision may be come to, that we are called upon to decide, without any previous notice whatever, upon the elements of a tribunal which were not before introduced. I was not aware that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bouverie) had made any suggestion for any alteration in the elements of the Committee, until I heard the interpretation which has been put upon his speech by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Let the House consider its position. First of all, there is the leader of the House now absent proposing that there should be a regularly constituted Committee, and then an hon. Gentleman proposes by way of Amendment that there should be a Committee of five appointed by the Committee of Selection. Well, we are brought here to-night to decide that Question, and the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Kilmarnock, a high authority in matters in his line, makes a speech without moving anything, and then the Chancellor of the Exchequer gets up and says it never occurred to him before—it seemed a most admirable mode of proceeding, and he recommends it. Why, we have not the proposition before us; we hare not had any notice of it; and I myself have not heard what the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman is. I know there was a great objection to the Motion of the noble Lord, on the ground that all kinds of personal motives would be introduced. But now, according as I understand the Chancellor of the Exchequer, this would be entirely a personal trial; there would be a prosecutor and a defender who would treat the whole question as if the character of an individual were involved. It is impossible to say that there are not some personal considerations involved in the matter. I only regret that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne did not consent to sit in the Committee, and I have no doubt that his honour would be in safe keeping. But, though there are personal questions involved, no one will for a moment pretend to say that the political are not greater than the personal considerations. The argument used by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Kilmarnock strikes at the very existence of the Committees of this House, and if the House does not defend them it
 1088
 MR. ADDERLEY : I rise, Sir, to move that this House, having considered the Minute of the Council of March 11, 1864, on Endowed Schools, is of opinion that it does not meet the objections made to the Minute of the 19th day of May, 1863. The House will remember that, about three months ago, I brought forward a Resolution condemnatory of the Minute of May, 1863, which proposed on the part of the Treasury to appropriate to its own credit every single endowment belonging to all the schools in England and Scotland which receive aid from the Government, whether those endowments were the gifts of living donors or vested in charitable trustees for educational objects, or whether they were the actual concession of living claimants amongst the poor for the benefit of the education of their children, or whether they were endowments expressly left for the payment of school fees. That Minute proposed to sweep into the Treasury indiscriminately, and treat as public money, all the endowments belonging to all the aided schools in England and Scotland; and it was not surprising that the House so strongly supported my condemnatory Resolution—indeed, with the exception of the hon. Members for Leeds and Sheffield, I was unanimously supported in the proposition which I made. The noble Lord at the head of the Government found himself obliged to intimate to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne, the then Vice President of the Committee of Council, when in the middle of his defence, that he must instantly put about and beat a rapid and immediate retreat, which difficult operation the right hon. Gentleman executed in a manner worthy of his well-known ability.
 MR. ADDERLEY : The right hon. Gentleman says I am mistaken, but I must repeat my proposition, and I do not think he will again contradict it, namely, that he came down to the House to oppose my Mo-
 1066 s 1067 A laugh 1068 1069 s 1070 1071 1072 "Even allowing that these endowments ought not to be taken to relieve the Treasury, still, on the other hand, they should not be allowed to relieve voluntary efforts." 1073 1074 1075
 MR. CARDWELL,  in reply, said, at the present moment no authority was exercised over the territory in question except by the Hudson's Bay Company. Negotiations for some time past had been going on between Her Majesty's Government and the Hudson's Bay Company, having for their object the transfer of a large portion of their territory to the Crown, and the establishment of a Colony in Rupert's Land, and a telegraphic communication with the Pacific. Negotiations had been commenced last Session, but no satisfactory answer had as yet been received.
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, one who had heard his right hon. Friend might have supposed that he was some ingenuous youth who had just got a seat in the House, and not a Member of that great experience of
 1086
 MR. H. BAILLIE  remarked that the position of prosecutor in such a case would be a very invidious one, whoever might be appointed.
 MR. CLAY  said, the noble Lord was right in stating he did not absolutely make the suggestion that assessors should be appointed. He took it for granted, from the instances he had named, that as a matter of course two assessors would be named, one, the gentleman most interested in the attack, so far as it was an attack; and the other, probably, the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education. The practice was to move for a Committee of five; and two assessors were afterwards added. In the case of Earl Granville, on whom an attack was made, only one assessor was appointed, that noble Lord declining to have one.
 MR. CLAY  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether his attention has been directed to the sentence of ten years' penal servitude passed at the Middlesex Sessions on a man named White, for an act which, if an offence at all, appears to have been at most an attempt at a larceny; and whether also he has noticed unusual severity in the sentences passed not unfrequently at the Middlesex Sessions; and whether Mr. Payne's tenure of office was  quamdiu se bene gesserit
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that his right hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General for Ireland had one advantage over Members like himself. He came to that discussion fresh and young, whereas he and others around him had been poring for the last fourteen or fifteen years over matters which had been considered and dealt with by the foremost men within those walls. The right hon. and learned' Gentleman talked a great deal of the blessings which the Bill would confer upon the people of Ireland, but, speaking in their name, he (Mr. Whiteside) would say they had to thank him for very little. There was no redeeming point in this Bill either as regards the public money or the private suitor. A great deal was said of assimilation; but it filled him with surprise that learned persons in this country, such as the Lord Chancellor, did not deem the legal institutions of Ireland worthy of notice. What the Lord Chancellor had proposed in his Bill with regard to the arrest of the suitor in the County Courts had
 1105 1106 1107 vivâ voce ex parte 1108 1109 1110 1111 1112 1113
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, I think the difficulty the House is in is that it has attempted to do something which everybody feels is unnecessary. I understand the noble Lord (Lord Robert Cecil) makes no imputation upon the right hon. Member for Calne, and I heard my hon. Friend the Member for Bradford (Mr. W. E. Forster) on one occasion say the same thing. I believe that the impression made upon the House when the right hon. Gentleman made his explanation was such that every Member of the House—I believe without an exception at that moment—wished that the Resolution of the 12th of April had not been passed. I think the general opinion of the House was, as regards him, that if that Resolution was an imputation on his character it was unfortunate and unjust. Well, I think the right hon. Gentleman is highly unfortunate, too, in the way he has been treated by the Government. I do not know how many weeks—some five or six at least—have passed since this unfortunate matter occurred, and the proper course for a powerful Minister defending a Colleague, whom he believed and knew to be innocent, would have been to ask the House to rescind the Resolution. The Government, however, did not take that course for reasons of its own, and after the Question is dragged on week after week in this manner, and in a way which must be excessively unpleasant to the right hon. Gentleman most concerned, there is now a question—What kind of Committee shall be formed? We all know that a Committee of fifteen is a most unsatisfactory tribunal in a matter of this kind—I
 1091
 MR. GEORGE  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General, had endeavoured to divert attention from the real arguments used by the right hon. and learned Member for Dublin University, and with having unintentionally misrepresented the course taken by that Gentleman in 1856. For his own part, he was as great an advocate for the assimilation of the practice of England and Ireland as any man living. He hoped, indeed, the time would soon come when no Act would be passed for one country that would not be binding on the other. What he complained of in the present Bill was that it carried out only a portion of the recommendations which had been made, and that it left untouched many differences between the two countries. A mixed Commission of English and Irish barristers might be able to prepare the heads of a real assimilation Bill, but it was a perfect mockery to call the measure now under discussion by that name. The right hon. and learned Member for Dublin University had pursued a consistent course, and if defects still existed in the system of the Irish Court of Chancery, it was not his fault or that of the Legislature. It was remarkable that throughout the whole Report of 1860 no reference was made to the Report of 1856, and in many of the most important points the two Reports were quite opposed to each other. When a Bill of this kind was brought forward, it was incumbent upon the House to consider how the Masters in Chancery had conducted themselves. It was an extraordinary fact that during the last fourteen years the four Masters had made 14,400
 1117
 MR. VANCE,  in seconding the Amend-
 1099
 MR. WALTER  said, he should occupy the attention of the House but for a very few minutes, for the principle at issue between his right hon. Friend and himself was of so limited and narrow a character that it required only to be clearly stated to be understood, and hardly demanded so lengthy an explanation as that of his right hon. Friend. The question he took to be simply this, Were endowments to be considered in the nature of public property appropriated to certain purposes, and placed in the hands of trustees to see that it was so applied; or were they to be regarded as special subscriptions, and to be treated as such, and taken into account among the sources of income from which a school derived its funds? His right hon. Friend had held him responsible to a greater extent than was right for the accuracy or inaccuracy of the Return which had been laid on the table on his Motion. At all events, his right hon. Friend had no right to complain that he had been obliged to postpone his Motion until that Return was produced, inasmuch as a considerable part of his speech was devoted to an exposure of its inaccuracies. Certainly there was another Return which would have rendered that one far more complete, and without which it was scarcely possible to do full justice to the subject. That was the Return moved for by the hon. Member for Newark, which would furnish the House with most valuable information, and would show the origin, history, and character of every school endowment, whence derived, the date, and how applied. That Return, with the Return already produced, would furnish the House with very valuable information. It really, however, was of very little consequence, as his right hon. Friend had truly said, whether the Return was strictly accurate or not. He did not rest his argument at all on the accuracy of the Return. He agreed entirely with his right hon. Friend that it was a question of principle, that it mattered little whether the endowment were £5 or £500, and many endowments, as they knew, went beyond even that large amount. When his right hon.
 1076 1077 s d s d s s d s d s d s d s s d s d s s s d s d s d s d s s s d s d s d s d s d 1078 reductio ad absurdum 1079
 MR. MALINS  said, the opponents of the Bill had failed in satisfying him that the Bill ought to be opposed at this stage. He had practised in the English Court of Chancery under the old and new systems, and the result of the new system was that suits which before 1852 would have lasted five years were disposed of in twelve or eighteen months. The Masters under the Irish system were totally different from what they were in England; for in this country there never was known such a thing as a cause originated before a Master; whereas in Ireland a suit went at once before the Master on a cause petition; he pronounced a decision upon it, and then worked out his own decree. That system he (Mr. Malins) regarded as very objectionable. He thought the Government had done right in introducing a Bill for assimilating the laws of Chancery of the two countries, and he approved of the principles of the measure. No doubt some of the details of the measure were open to objection, but the best way of meeting them would be by referring it to a Select Committee. The English system was by no means perfect, and what required alteration in this country might be guarded against with regard to Ireland. Instead of abolishing the Masters and substituting a Vice Chancellor and a chief clerk, he thought the Masters might be retained to act with the Vice Chancellor with great advantage to the suitors. He recommended the hon. and learned Gentleman not to persevere with his Amendment.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether any progress has been made in the negotiations between Her Majesty's Government and the Hudson's Bay Company relative to the establishment of telegraphic communications with the Pacific through British North America, and whether arrangements for the future management of the territory of the Hudson's Bay Company are still the subject of negotiation?
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, that after the expression of opinion of the hon. Member
 1119
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, he did not think the measure before the House, however important, was calculated to benefit the suitors in the Court of Chancery in Ireland. On the contrary, it would be attended with great expense, which was wholly unnecessary. Its introduction was altogether premature, and was founded on evidence not calculated to sustain such a measure. From the statement of his right hon. and learned Friend it might be supposed that his was the first effort that had been made to reform the Court of Chancery in Ireland; but such was by no means the case. Chancery reform was taken up in Ireland before it was discussed in this country. In 1850 great reforms were introduced. The Masters' Office had been for many years a reproach, not because Masters presided there, or on account of the mode of procedure, but because the Government of the day wished to make the courts self-supporting. Stamps were required at every stage of a suit, and, in fact, a system of abuse grew up, not so much from the mode of administering justice itself, as from the endeavour to sell justice and make the court self-supporting—an idea as absurd as it would be to attempt to make the police of London self-supporting. Well, an Act was passed by which the old practice of bills and answers was entirely discontinued, and a short and simple proceeding, by petition to the Chancellor and informal answer through affidavits, was substituted. By that measure the proceedings in administration suits, mortgage suits, trust suits, suits relating to the guardianship of infants, partnership suits, and some other cases, were greatly simplified and taken out of the general jurisdiction of the Chancellor.
 1094 1095 vivâ voce 1096 1097 1098 camera obscura camera lucida
 MR. LOWE : I beg to say the right hon. Gentleman is mistaken.
 MR. O'HAGAN (THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND)  said, that having on a previous occasion entered into an elaborate statement of the character of the measure, he thought he should not be justified now in going through the whole question at the same length. There were, however, a few observations, some of a general and some of a particular character, which he wished to address to the House. He would, however, remark that the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Mallow was not a discussion of the question before the House, or a criticism of the principles of the Bill, but an indulgence in suggestions with reference to persons whose characters did not render them proper subjects for such imputations. He rejoiced to find so long a time had elapsed between the introduction of the Bill and its second reading, because it had given an opportunity for considering and examining its details, and the result had been the adoption of the principles of the Bill by the incorporated solicitors of Ireland, and by the great majority of persons in that country who were most competent to give an opinion. From the Incorporated Society of Solicitors of Ireland he had received suggestions upon details which they opposed; and as to those details, he believed that he should have very little difficulty in meeting all the
 1100 1101 1102 1103 1104
 MR. SCULLY  said, it had at one time been his misfortune to practise in the High Court of Chancery in Ireland; and he must say that though the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin and the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Wexford (Mr. George) were very high authorities in the Courts of Common Law, he had never met either of them in the High Court of Chancery. The Bill the House had to consider that night contained only 192 clauses, with attendant schedules; but he hoped they would not go into those clauses on that occasion, for he really did not know but that he would be compelled to oppose every single one of them. All that they ought to do at that late hour was to discuss the principle of the measure only. The Report which had been so much condemned that evening was signed by Mr. Napier, the hon. and learned Member for Belfast (Sir Hugh Cairns), and other eminent Chancery barristers. The Commissioners were unanimously in favour of assimilation, and their authority ought to have great weight with hon. Gentlemen opposite. He did not undertake to support the Bill in all its details, but to the principle of the Bill he did give his support.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I will detain the House but a few moments. The speech of my right hon. Friend the Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie) has introduced a new element into the subject. Undoubtedly, while it was felt on the one hand in the former discussion that there would be a considerable advantage in referring the matter to a Committee of five, it was felt on the other hand, and it was strongly urged, that there was this disadvantage, that among the five Members could not be included those who were best acquainted with the case, and most competent to conduct it. Now, the proposal of my right hon. Friend entirely removes that difficulty; and, on the part of Her Majesty's Government, I have to say that we are willing to refer the matter to a Committee formed upon the suggestion of my right hon. Friend the Member for Kilmarnock. [ Cries of 1087
 MR. MORRISON  said, he wished to know, Whether the attention of the War Office has been called to the quality of the Percussion Caps issued for practice to the Army?
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he wished to know whether the Revised Minute would permit the revenue arising from the Mill bequests in Aberdeenshire to be distributed without deductions from the Government grant?
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, that the reduction which, in recent years, had taken place in the number of members on Election Committees was a great improvement, and he approved in the present instance the proposition to constitute the Committee of five Members only. Some hon. Gentlemen might call that a political question, but there was a great deal of personal consideration mixed up with it, and out of doors no one heard of the Resolution condemning the practice of the Education Department without feeling that it was either nothing at all or else a personal implication. There must be some one responsible for the Department, if it had broken faith with the House of Commons, and acted so discreditably as to de-
 1089
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he believed the two assessors would be appointed only after communication was had with them.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, my attention was called to this case by  The Times 1062
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that a Paper had been presented to Parliament giving the Correspondence between the Home Office and the Prison Inspectors in reference to the Report of the Lords Committee. A full and elaborate Report
 1064
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether he has received the Report of the Court of Inquiry held on Acting Master Danenhowen, or Donovan, of the United States ship  Vanderbilt Saxon
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he was aware there had been instances of the kind; but he wished to know whether Gentlemen so named to serve in the capacity of assessors would have an option, or would be compelled to serve on being appointed.
 SIR MASSEY LOPES  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether his attention has been called to the fatal accident which has recently taken place from Artillery practice in Plymouth Sound; and what measures he proposes to recommend in order to preventt he repetition of so painful a disaster? The accident took place on Monday last in Plymouth Sound while the Artillery were practising. A boat had landed passengers from the  Warrior
 MR. BAZLEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether the Government be now prepared to give effect to the Recommendation of the Select Committee of the House of Lords in reference to the discipline and dietary in Gaols, and whether the advice of the Visiting Justices of Prisons, which has been sought by Government, and any other inquiries in progress, were calculated to finally fix the dietary in County and Borough Gaols upon a sound and scientific basis; and who are the Gentlemen to whom the subject has been referred, and how has their inquiry been conducted?
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, that having been a Member of the Select Committee, he naturally took a great interest in this subject. It was one on which laymen might be permitted to express their opinions, and, in fact, the Report of the Commission lost much of its value in his estimation by the fact that it was composed
 1118
 LORD STANLEY  said, he rose to move that the Standing Order, which limited
 1135 1136
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, he wished to remind the House that every member of a Committee before whom a case of this kind came, had to declare that he was neither directly nor indirectly concerned in the matter, and that he would give his verdict fairly; but when the question was brought before that House, as they found by their experience of last year, there was a mercantile bias operating to induce their decision upon the point whether those powers should or should not be granted. When the Company with which he was connected applied for steamboat powers they first asked the Steam Navigation Company whether they would place steamboats upon the proposed line of communication, but they refused to do so. Even after they had obtained those powers they gave the Steam Navigation Company the option of placing their boats upon the station, when they again declined to do so. They subsequently informed the Steam Navigation Company, that if they sent into their harbours any boats they should have the same facilities and rights as the railway vessels possessed. He hoped that the House would not allow any mercantile feeling to influence their decision in the consideration of this question.
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, When the Financial Accounts of India, which ought by law to have been laid upon the table of the House last month, will be presented to the House; and whether he will also present the Speech of the Finance Minister of India along with the Accounts; and when he intends to bring forward the Indian Budget?
 MR. CORRY  wished to know whether it was intended that the offices of the Governor and Lieutenant Governor of the Hospital should be held for only five years. That would, he thought, be a most objectionable arrangement. For his part, he should blush to see Sir James Gordon turned out of his office at the expiration of that period. He should also be glad to know what arrangements would be made with reference to the out-pensioners.
 MR. CORRY  said, he wished to know how the Board of Management was to be constituted?
 MAJOR HAMILTON : I cordially agree with the proposition of my hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Ayrshire (Sir James Fergusson), and I cannot help observing with satisfaction that, for the first time during many years, Scotch business has been brought forward at a reasonable hour, and that, to use a sporting phrase, we have the opportunity of having "a good innings." It is not my intention to trouble the House for many minutes, and I hope that other Scotch Members will show their sense of the indulgence of the House by making short speeches. The question submitted to the House by my hon. and gallant Friend is one of the Scottish rights which excited so much attention north of the Tweed a few years since, which if heard of in England at all were chiefly known through the animadversions of  The Times 1176
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : Sir, I was anxious before I addressed the House to have heard a little more said in support of the Motion. My hon. and gallant Friend (Sir James Fergusson) will not imagine that I undervalue his statement when I say that it did not contain any very strong or intelligent grounds for the Motion with which he has concluded. The hon. and gallant Gentleman has stated truly that this subject was brought under the notice of the House in 1858, and was then fully considered. The leaders on both sides then expressed their opinions in the clearest and strongest manner. My noble Friend at the head of the Government and the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire both expressed their conviction that there was no ground whatever for altering the existing mode of conducting Scotch business in this House. Therefore, unless the hon. and gallant Gentleman had some stronger grounds for his proposal than those which he has laid before the House, it was unnecessary, I think, again to disturb a question so decidedly set at rest within so recent a period. As to the mode in which the subject has been brought forward, as far as I personally am concerned, I have nothing to complain of. In regard to the matter itself, which is of great public importance to Scotland, I shall take the liberty, as shortly and succinctly as I can, of stating the reasons why this Motion ought not to be agreed to. I am, I own, at a loss to understand what is the precise grievance which my hon. and gallant Friend would redress. I lis-
 1180 1181 Pampero 1182 1183 1184 1185 1186 1187 1188
 MR. ROBERTSON : It was not my intention to take part in the present debate, nor should I have done so if it had not been for the personal matters which have been introduced into the debate by my right hon. and learned Friend the Lord Advocate. My right hon. and learned Friend says, that it was I who counted him out on the Salmon Fisheries Bill. That is altogether incorrect, although I certainly hold many of the views which were expressed on that occasion by the hon. Member for Edinburgh. I must say that I entertain very strong objections to the Bill, and the reason that the House was counted out was that the time at which the measure came on for discussion was half past two or a quarter to three in the morning, and it was considered that that was not a proper hour to go into discussion on so important a question. Perhaps, I may be allowed to make one remark in regard to what has fallen from the hon. Member for Dumbartonshire (Mr. Smollett). The hon. Member remarked that during the absence of the Lord Advocate from this House, Scotch business was in danger of coming to a stand-still. That is hardly the case, because we have in the House an hon. Member who is commonly called the Scotch Lord of the Treasury, and I believe that my hon. Friend (Sir William Dunbar) is always ready to give his advice and the best assistance he can render to all who have occasion to go to him.
 MAJOR HAMILTON : I rise to Order, Sir. I beg to say that I made no reference to any private conversation. If the hon. Baronet will be good enough to inform me what it was, I will at once refute it.
 MAJOR HAMILTON : I admit that the hon. Baronet did use words to that effect in public, but, as far as I know, not privately.
 MAJOR HAMILTON : I must again repeat that the observations of the hon. Baronet were made in public, not in private.
 MR. PEEL  said, the Committee of last Session had fully ascertained the nature of the Crown interest in Epping Forest; and it was of importance that the nature of that interest should be fully understood. The Crown had no property either in the soil or the timber. The forest belonged wholly to private persons, the lords of the manors, copyholders and others, subject only to the
 1201 1202 1203
 MR. CORRY  said, he hoped that if a Royal Commission was not appointed, the question would at least receive the reconsideration of the Admiralty. He contended that the captains of the  Warrior
 MR. C. P. BERKELEY  observed, that the Committee which sat last year examined no Master nor Commander, and no evidence was taken about their position except incidentally. As to the retired captains, he thought their case had been pretty fully inquired into by the Committee
 1214 d
 MR. CARNEGIE : I trust the hon. and gallant Gentleman will not press his Motion to a division, but will be satisfied with the expression of opinion which has taken place. It would be very inconvenient for many hon. Members to have the matter pressed upon them, and I think it would also be undesirable to have a division on a Scotch question unless it should be supported by a very large number of Members. If Scotland is not nearly agreed that a change ought to take place, it would be a great pity to unsettle the present state of affairs by referring the matter now under consideration to a Select Committee. I think the Lord Advocate has made out an excellent case as to the general practical efficiency of the existing system; at the same time, I think that, theoretically, it seems to be a very extraordinary one. I quite agree in the opinion which has been expressed by the hon. Member for Dumbartonshire, that so far as regards Scotch legislation, too much deference is paid to the interests of the Parliament House and a particular clique in Edinburgh. This grievance was hardly
 1193
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE : The Motion submitted to the House by the hon. and gallant Member for Ayrshire, implies either that there is some particular defect in the present administration of Scotch affairs, or that those affairs are generally maladministered. I listened very attentively to his speech, expecting to hear some proof that such is the case, because in bringing forward a Motion, which implies dissatisfaction with the administration of Scotch affairs, he was bound to adduce some facts to justify his proposition. I do not know whether other hon. Gentlemen who have listened to his remarks entertain the same opinion, but I must say that to my mind he did not adduce facts sufficient to justify the inquiry for which he asks. I imagine it to be a totally new thing, on a question relating to the administration of the affairs of a great section of the United Kingdom, to move for the appointment of a fishing Committee to find out something to substantiate the general statement that he and some of his friends are dissatisfied with the present administration of Scotch affairs. I am certainly not aware that any such dissatisfaction as that which is alleged exists in Scotland, or in this House. The hon. and gallant Gentleman expatiated at considerable length on the duties of the office of Lord Advocate, and said that it was quite impossible, in the nature of things that any Lord Advocate could discharge in a satisfactory manner the numerous and responsible duties which are cast upon him. The hon. and gallant Gentleman did justice to my right hon. and learned Friend when he spoke so highly of the manner in which his duties are performed; but he justified his Motion on this ground, that such is the constitution of the office of Lord Advocate that Scotch affairs must necessarily be indifferently administered. The answer to that is experience. For many years Scotch affairs have been most ably administered by successive Lord Advocates,
 1177 1178 dilettante 1179
 MR. LIDDELL : What about the finances?
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he rose to second the Motion. He earnestly hoped that the House would join his hon, and gallant Friend in endeavouring to obtain from the Admiralty, or those who represented the Admiralty in that House, some explanation of what, to his mind, was the inexplicable tardiness which had been shown in dealing with the affairs of Greenwich Hospital. He supposed that no public question ever stood in so remarkable a position. A Royal Commission on the Hospital made recommendations; a Commissioner was appointed expressly to inquire into the merits of those recommendations; he approved them; and another set of Commissioners were directed to inquire into his Report. There were a multiplication of Reports all concurring, and yet nothing had been done to remove the evil, which was inseparable from the existing system, and which had been on all hands pointed out as a great abuse of administration and a great waste of funds. He would venture to remind the House that last year, when the Question was brought before the consideration of Parliament, it was predicted — and the prediction required no large amount of foresight—that the appointment of Sir Richard Bromley would create an antagonism within the walls of Greenwich Hospital greater than ever existed before. The
 1152 1153 s
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : The finances would be kept entirely separate from the management of the Hospital. That question would be carefully inquired into by the Treasury and the Admiralty, with a view to a proposal being submitted to Parliament next Session in reference both to the landed and the funded property.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that there would be no such Board. The management would be intrusted to a superintendent and other officers, as at Haslar and other Hospitals.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that he was glad to see the feeling which had been displayed in reference to the proposals of the Government. These proposals, which had been explained to the House, were the result of very careful consideration, and he thought that in reference to some details which had been adverted to it would be perhaps better that he should lay on the table an interesting Memo-
 1166 1167
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he was not in a position to answer the Question of the right hon. Member for Droitwich, whether the Government were pre-
 1216 1217 s s s s s s s d
 MR. AYRTON  said, he trusted that the Government would not readily accede to the request which had been made, and by handing over its functions to a Commission, entail upon the public a great increase in the expenditure. As a Member of the Committee, he had hoped that their well-considered Report would have put an end to much of what they had heard that night. If the inducements at present held out were not sufficient to induce officers to enter the navy—which he did not believe to be the case—he hoped his noble Friend the Secretary of the Admiralty would state so.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he wished to put a Question to the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs with regard to an extraordinary statement which has appeared in the daily papers—whether it is correct that
 "The British Consulates hare been informed that, in compliance with the wish of Greece, England will extend her protection over the Ionian inhabitants in their relations with the Turkish authorities for another year;"
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, that the paragraph which the hon. Member had read was not strictly correct. As the hon. Gentleman was aware, there were in the East Consular Courts which had hitherto dealt with cases arising amongst Ionians. Many of these cases were still in litigation; in some the terms of imprisonment had not yet elapsed, and in others judgment had been given, but execution had not been carried out. All the Government had done was to signify its readiness, if the Turkish and Greek Governments should agree, to extend their protection; or, as the case might be, to carry out the judgments in the case of Ionians, so as to avoid the great inconvenience that otherwise might arise in suits that were pending. There was no general protection extended to Ionians for any specified period. He did not think there would be any objection to the production of the despatch; but if his hon. Friend would move for it he would see if it could be given.
 MR. LAYARD , in reply, said, Her Majesty's Government had received indirect information that the King of Abyssinia had placed in confinement Her Majesty's Consul and several Missionaries established there, and also the French Consul; but according to the last information the French Consul had been released. The information, however, might be very incorrect, as the King took care that no information should leave his country, and the facts were difficult to get at, but Her Majesty's Government would do all in their power to obtain the release of Captain Cameron and the Missionaries. The most natural step would be to send some person there to demand their release, but Her Majesty's Government were rather afraid that he
 1146
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, the hon. Member must be aware that this was a point over which he had no sort of authority. All he could do was to lay the papers on the table of the House, and
 1147
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he laid the financial accounts on the table about throe weeks since—on the 13th of May. [Mr. J. B. SMITH: Are they printed?] He did not know, but he laid them, on the table at the proper time. They were long and elaborate accounts, and they always took about a month to print. With regard to the Speech of the Finance Minister of India, he could not lay it on the table of the House, any more than he could lay on the table the Speech of his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer. It was impossible for him to say, seeing so many Motions that were put down every day on the Motion for going into Supply —it was impossible for the Government to say—when the Estimates would be finished, and, until they had been voted, or were nearly completed, he could not name a day for bringing on the Indian Budget.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he had already answered that question. He had already stated they were laid on the table three weeks ago.
 MR. MURE : I rise simply for the purpose of joining in the recommendation which has been made to the hon. Baronet the Member for Ayr, not to press his Motion to a division. I recollect perfectly well what took place when a Motion on his subject was submitted which involved the direct appointment of a Secretary of State for Scotland. How was that Motion received by both sides of the House? It was the distinct opi-
 1194 1195 1196
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, the right hon. Gentleman had somewhat underrated the importance of the rights of the Crown in Epping Forest. They carried with them a much greater importance than the right hon. Gentleman had stated, because upon the preservation of those rights depended the preservation of open spaces in the neighbourhood of this crowded metropolis, for the recreation of its inhabitants. He agreed with the right hon. Gentleman that the Commissioners of Woods and Forests were not to be blamed for the way in which they administered their trusts. That House alone was to be blamed. The responsibility of preserving spots for the recreation of the inhabitants of the metropolis rested solely with the House of Commons. The right hon. Gentleman had not quite correctly quoted the Report of the Committee. The Committee stated that there were two courses which might be pursued — the one was to discontinue the sale of the forestal rights of the Crown, vigilantly to preserve those rights without regard to cost, and to keep the forest in its present wild and unenclosed condition; the other was to ascertain the rights of the several parties interested, and to make provision, partly by these means and partly by purchase, to secure an adequate portion of the forest for purposes of health and recreation. It was not the intention of the Committee that the forestal rights should be discontinued, unless the second course was adopted. And, therefore, when the right hon. Gentleman stated that the Address of the House ought to be considered as overridden by the recommendation of the Committee, he was not justified in coming to that conclusion, for it was only, on the express condition that Her Majesty's Government should entertain the recommendations contained in the Report
 1204
 COLONEL EDWARDS  thought he was only doing his duty in advocating the claims of a body of men who deserved the best consideration of the House of Commons. As to the captains on the reserved list, when he referred to them the other night, the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty seemed to ignore their existence. One hundred of those captains, as the noble Lord was well aware, were originally placed on the reserved list upon the distinct understanding that they should enjoy the same advantages prospectively as those who were placed on the active list. He had that day received a statement from a post-captain in the Royal Navy who had been placed on the reserved list, in which he stated that the class he represented were at a loss to know what Lord
 1213 s
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he wished to know when they would be in the hands of hon. Members, and whether the right hon. Baronet has given orders for their being printed?
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he would beg to ask the right hon. Gentleman if he has any notion when the Accounts will be laid on the table?
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, What information Her Majesty's Government has received relating to the ill-treatment of Missionaries in Abyssinia, and the imprisonment of Her Majesty's Consul there by King Theodorus; and what steps Her Majesty's Government have taken in consequence?
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he thought the observations which had been made by his hon. and gallant Friend who had proposed the Amendment before the House must have been sufficient to satisfy all who heard him that the question of Greenwich Hospital was not one which could be dealt with in a few moments, but that there were grave considerations at stake, requiring the most serious deliberation. He could not help feeling, at the same time, that there was no disposition on the part of hon. Gentlemen on either side to take up the subject in a party spirit, but to deal with it simply in its bearing upon the welfare of our seamen, and with a view to
 1156 1157 1158 s d s d s s s 1159 1160 1161 d 1162 1163
 MR. CLAY  said, he could not agree with the noble Lord that the practical effect of the repeal of the Standing Order would be very small; for, under a very modest title, he believed the House had rarely had to discuss a matter of greater national importance. The Standing Order imposed no prohibition on Railway Companies obtaining these powers; it simply threw on them the onus of proving a ease of public convenience, and wherever such a case was made out those powers were ordinarily granted under this Standing Order. If he felt certain that its repeal would do nothing more than it professed to do, he should have no fear of it; but he was afraid it would be taken as an invitation to Railway Companies to ask for these powers, and as an injunction to Committees to grant them. At least it threw on the shipowning interest the onus of proving that they ought not to be granted, instead of leaving it to Railway Companies to prove the necessity of them. The world was very much governed by phrases, and he believed that the noble Lord, and opinion generally, had been very much influenced by a phrase in a Report of the Board of Trade, to the effect that it was difficult to see how the great principle of competition could be advanced by the exclusion from competition of the largest capitals in the country. Yet this was easily seen. The railways, by their command of the land traffic, their power of juggling with fares, and their ownership, in many cases, of docks, piers, &c., had the power of placing obstacles so insurmountable in the way of their rivals, as to make competition practically impossible, and to create a monopoly for themselves. If it could be shown that public convenience required it, he was perfectly willing that the proposed change should take place. He
 1138 1139
 MR. SPEAKER : The remarks of the hon. Member are out of Order.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he must remind the House that the present Government had been described by the hon. Member for Rochdale as the most wasteful and profligate Government in regard to expenditure that ever sat on the Treasury Bench. The Chancellor of the Exchequer was willing to expend half a million in the purchase of the Exhibition Building, and was a Member of the Government that had flung away thousands of pounds into the sea at Alderney. The fact was, that while the Government underpaid the men in the Royal Navy they were wasting the public money in useless fortifications at home and docks at Malta. And yet the Chancellor of the Exchequer ventured to read that side of the House a lecture on their extravagance.
 MR. PERRY WATLINGTON  said, he could not altogether concur in casting blame on the Government, but he thought that a Commission should be issued to inquire as to the best vacant sites for recreation purposes, and, where rights existed, how they could be compensated, so that suitable spaces for popular amusement might be maintained. The population at the east end of London, and that portion of Essex which he had the honour to represent, derived great enjoyment and benefit from occasional visits to Epping Forest, and to prevent the restriction of that enjoyment by the enclosures which, legally or illegally, were taking place in the district, it was necessary to adopt the course suggested by the hon. Member for Maldon. The population in the east of London was rapidly increasing. In one parish, West Ham, the population which in 1851 was only 15,000, had, in 1861, more than doubled. It was 38,000. They had evidence before the Committee that the forest was used by all classes of the people. It was a place of favourite public resort during the whole summer; and, on every day in the week, large schools were being constantly taken down in vans. On one occasion, as a witness stated, he had taken down sixty vans, containing 1,000 adults. It would be a great loss to the people to be deprived of such healthful resorts, and it was incumbent on the Government to take the proper steps to preserve at once the rights of the Crown and the means of recreation for the people. The Government were not blameless in the matter, for in the Forest of Hainault 2,000 acres of Crown land had been enclosed and all the timber swept away, the whole being now a large sweep of arable land, without a single acre being reserved for the recreation and enjoyment of the people. Something should be done to prevent further encroachment.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, nothing could be fairer or more clear than the statement of the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn. If the matter was really as he had put it he should have
 1145
 MR. SMOLLETT : Sir, I did not intend to address the House, but I have been so much referred to by the right hon. and learned Lord, I hope the House will allow
 1189 1190 1191 de diem in diem 1192
 MR. RICHARD HODGSON  said, that if he apprehended that the removal of the Standing Order would injure the shipping interests, he would be one of the last to advocate the Motion of the noble Lord. So far as his experience went, he might add that Railway Companies were not anxious, under any circumstances, to obtain these powers to work steamboats if any other body of shipowners would conduct the necessary traffic to their satisfaction. His objection to the Standing Order was that it threw the onus of proof on the wrong party—upon those who brought forward the measure, instead of upon those who opposed it. While he wished the Standing Order to be expunged, he thought that whenever Railway Companies were about to ask powers to run steamboats the matter should be brought before the shareholders in the same way as extensions were dealt with. He thought the House should impose such restrictions as would ensure equality of treatment to persons on both sides of the passage. He should support the Motion of the noble Lord.
 MR. INGHAM  said, that having been a member of the Royal Commission, he wished to express the satisfaction with which he had listened to the statement of his hon. Friend the Secretary to the Admiralty. He could not agree with some of the criticisms of the right hon. Baronet on the Report. No one who carefully read the Reports and the evidence on the point would be of the right hon. Gentleman's opinion as to the original design of the institution. The statutes, the charters, and, above all, the practice in its earliest and best days, showed that no person, unless below the rank of a warrant officer, was entitled to share in the charity. It was true that during the last two reigns the practice had been otherwise, but before that period the Hospital was exclusively
 1165
 MR. TORRENS  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether Her Majesty's Government intend to take any steps to carry out, completely or partially, the recommendations contained in the Report of the Select Committee on Royal Forests in Essex of last Session; whether any encroachments or enclosures have been reported to have been made within the forests since the date of that Report; and, if so, whether they have taken place on portions of the forest wherein the rights of the Crown had been sold or not? He begged to remind the House that in 1862 they addressed the Crown with a view to prevent further steps being taken to facilitate the legalization of the encroachments in Epping Forest. It appeared from a Return which had been presented, that the Crown rights over 5,000 acres within the forest had been sold for the paltry sum of £18,000 to various individuals, some of whom claimed to be lords of manors; but the greater number of the purchasers of the Crown rights made no such claim; and, on the strength of these purchases, the buyers of the Crown rights proceeded to enclose right and left wholly disregardless of the rights of the commoners and of the public. By the evidence before the Select Committee which considered this subject, the mode was disclosed in which such bargains were made. Persons first of all were allowed to encroach illegally upon the property of the Crown, and then they were invited by a circular letter or notice from the Department of Woods and Forests to purchase the rights of the Crown under a threat of legal proceedings. The Select Committee had strongly animadverted upon the notices thus issued by the Department. That proceeding was explained on the ground that it was desirable to avoid the expenses of a litigation, as the only court in which the rights of the commoners could be tried was
 1200
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the position in which the House was placed was this. Last year considerable complaint was made by hon. Members representing
 1142 1143
 MR. HORSFALL  said, he was anxious that the House should not be led away by the observations made by the President of the Board of Trade when he said that the practice of the House was different from its Standing Order. The Standing Order gave the Committee full authority to exempt a Railway Company from its
 1144
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, he would admit that the House was a court of last appeal for grievances; but he must protest against taking out of the hands of the executive Government the exercise of their proper functions. If the House undertook to remedy all the grievances which ought to be remedied by the responsible Officers of the Crown, it would get itself into considerable difficulties. The case before them was very like that of the Custom House Officers seeking for additional pay. He had received many applications on the subject, but he had invariably said that he did not think it his duty to interfere with the Officers of the Crown on such matters. The duty of the House of Commons was to check the expenditure, not to increase it.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I beg the hon. Gentleman's pardon. If he makes such an assertion as that, will he have the goodness to prove it?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said that he could conceive nothing
 1219 1220 1221 ad libitum
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : "Recommend strikes" was the expression I called on the hon. Gentleman to prove.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that there was one proposition in respect to which they were all pretty much agreed, and that was, that the question was in a very unsatisfactory state; but he marvelled much that some hon. Gentlemen, the promoters of the Address of last year, should cast on the Government the responsibility for that unsatisfactory condition of the question, for he maintained that it was in a great degree owing to them and to the Address which they induced the House to adopt. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down called on the Government to act on the recommendation of the minority of the Committee and against that of the majority. [Mr. COX: Act on one or on the other, but act.] He wished the House to observe what the recommendation of the majority of the Committee was. They advised that the sanction of Parliament should be given to the enclosure of a main portion of the forest; that the rights of interested parties should be ascertained, and that provision should be made by these means and partly by purchase for securing a part of the forest for the recreation of the public. But where there was a purchase, there must be purchase money, and hon. Gentlemen had been very shy of that part of the question. Was the purchase
 1207 corpus 1208
 MR. ANGERSTEIN  said, he thought that scant justice had been done to the Commissioners of the Hospital. In his opinion the country was indebted to them for the conduct they had pursued. If there had been any mismanagement it should be recollected that the Admiralty were the superior authority, and the whole blame ought not to be thrown on the Commissioners. He was gratified at the spirit in which the Government had taken up the subject, and he hoped any determination to which they might come would prove beneficial to that service, which had been the glory of the country.
 MR. BARROW  said, he was afraid that the small interest the claims of which he was desirous of advocating was very much in the position of the little kingdom of Denmark in the grasp of Austria and Prussia. The monopoly of railways was becoming something gigantic, and no doubt the influence they possessed in that House was a great advantage to railway proprietors. Having had something to do with the drawing up of the Standing Order, he was very unwilling to see it repealed. The object of this Standing Order was to prevent the large capitals overpowering the small capitals, and to preserve to the public that competition which was necessary to secure them due accommodation. As matters stood at present, if a Committee before whom a Railway Company made applica-
 1137
 MR. COX  said, he would congratulate the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down on his change of opinion on the subject. Lately, when the people of Finsbury were endeavouring to keep the forest for ever open for their recreation and health, the hon. Gentleman was a strong opponent of that course; but now that he found the population of West Ham was rapidly increasing and required the forest for recreation, he joined with those who exclaimed against forest enclosure. The position in which the question stood was this. The Crown was entitled to certain
 1206
 MR. FERRAND  said, he would withdraw the word "recommend," but he certainly understood the right hon. Gentleman to justify strikes. In all such cases as that before them the ultimate court of appeal must be that House.
 MR. FERRAND  said, he certainly understood the right hon. Gentleman to justify strikes.
 MR. FERRAND  said, he wished to know what the officers of the army and navy were to do, if, having brought a grievance before the Executive and obtained no remedy, they were to be precluded from appealing to the House of Commons. "Would the hon. Member have them strike, as the Chancellor of the Exchequer had recommended working men to do the other night?
 MR. ALDERMAN ROSE  said, he hoped that the House would always listen to any class which came before them with a well-founded grievance. It had been clearly shown that the only memebrs of a very difficult and dangerous service, who had not been recognized or received any
 1215
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, that the hon. Member for Tynemouth had given a very good reason why the House should not assent to the Motion. He told the House that Railway Companies were not particularly anxious to possess steamboat powers. They would as a rule only ask for them in cases in which they could induce no one to perform the sea service from their ports; but in such cases as that Companies might obtain these powers under the Order as it stood. If any Railway Company came before a Committee and gave good reasons why the powers should be granted, the restriction would be removed. It was only last year that three Railway Companies came before the Committee for these steamboat powers, and they were granted to them on the ground that it was wholly unlikely that any private Companies would perform the service. The hon. Gentleman had also recommended the
 1140 1141
 MR. CAIRD  seconded the Motion.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, that as the prices of provisions and almost
 1218
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON , in rising to move for—
 1168 "A Select Committee to inquire how far the number of the Members of the Administration charged with the conduct of the affairs of Scotland, and having seats in Parliament, is commensurate with the requirements of that part of the United Kingdom,"
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  proceeded. I am glad that this attempt to extinguish the debate has failed. I should have been extremely sorry if the few observations I intended to make had been suddenly curtailed without my having the opportunity of disclaiming, in the strongest manner possible, any desire on my part, in submitting this Motion, to make any imputation against the Administration of Scotch affairs by my right hon. Friend who at present holds the office of Lord Advocate. I shall be fully acquitted of any such desire by all, on both sides of the House, who have noticed the manner in which my right hon. and learned Friend has from time to time met the objections to the measures which he has introduced, and the favourable opportunities he has given for their discussion. The same compliment
 1169 1170 1171 ipse dixit 1172 1173 1174
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  resumed. I have very few more words to say. I have shown that in my opinion the duties of the Lord Advocate are incompatible. He is charged with the formation of laws, with the appointment of Judges, or those who practically exercise the power, with the revision of their proceedings, with the consideration of the remission of the sentence of death imposed by these very Judges, and he ought not at the same time to be charged with the administration of Scotch business generally. All I ask the House to do is to sanction the appointment of a Committee, which shall have the power of taking evidence as to the manner in which the affairs of no unimportant part of the United Kingdom are conducted, and I trust that the inquiry which I propose will be assented to.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, if he had not been a member of the Committee in question he should not have troubled the House with any observations after the able speech of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Belfast; but he could not allow the President of the Board of Trade to impress the House with the notion that the Committee were unanimous upon the question. The Committee had had a division, and although the opinion of the noble Lord had always great weight, nevertheless four members of that Committee differed from him upon the matter. The balance of evidence was in his (Sir James Fergusson's) judgment quite the other way—that being four witnesses in favour of the proposed change and nine against it. The main point to consider was whether the Standing Order did shut the door against the proposition, inasmuch as it gave the Committee authority to grant the powers asked for in case necessity was shown for the exemption of the particular company from the Standing Orders. There were several instances in which those steamboat powers were refused on the ground that no case had been made out to show that the public would reap advantage from the conferring of those powers upon Railway Companies.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he rose to move the Resolution of which he had given notice, with respect to the recommendation of the Royal Commission of 1860, confirmed by the Report of Sir Richard
 1148 1149 "I think, upon the whole, a re-construction of the governing body is necessary; I see no necessity for more than one civil Commissioner." "I should say the Governor for the time being should be chairman of the Commission." "Do you think that the Governor might with advantage be united to the Commissioners?" "Yes; I think it would put an end to all those differences if he was chairman of the board." 1150 1151
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, that after the satisfactory statement he had heard from the Admiralty authorities, he would withdraw his Motion.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he was sorry that the opinion of the Chancellor of the Exchequer should be supposed to represent that of Her Majesty's Government on the subject. The House had been told that officers ought to strike, but the only way in which they could strike was by declin-
 1222
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that before the noble Lord rose to address them he wished to say a few words, although he did not mean to enter into the Question raised by his hon. Friend behind him. He
 1212
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, after the clear and very interesting statement which the hon. Gentleman had made, and which the House on every account had heard with satisfaction, he should wish to make a few remarks. In the first place, he had to express his great gratification that the Government had decided to deal at once with the matter, for the time had arrived when something ought to be done, both with respect to the system of government and the whole mode of management of that magnificent institution. When the Royal Commission made a Report some time ago, and that was followed by another able Report by Sir R. Bromley, the Government had ample information at hand for dealing with the subject. He would not offer any opinion on the statement of the hon. Gentleman; but he would go as far as this, and say that it appeared to him that the principles on which the Board of Admiralty intended to proceed were sound.
 1164
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, bethought that the right hon. Gentleman was incorrect in what he had said regarding the powers of the Metropolitan Board. That Board, he fully believed, had no authority under the Metropolis Local Management Act to buy any land beyond their jurisdiction for the recreation of the people. If the Metropolitan Board really had such a power, he would be the first to advocate their exercising it for the benefit of the public. He understood that all that was now desired of the Government was that they should simply prevent any encroachment upon the forest. Considering the miles of bricks and mortar that were constantly springing up in the metropolis, he did not think it was fair to turn round upon its inhabitants, who now paid for many things of which the country at large
 1209
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, he rose to move that this House will, upon Tuesday next, resolve itself into a Committee to consider of an humble Address to be presented to Her Majesty, praying that She will be graciously pleased to give directions for putting the Staff Captains, Commanders, and Masters of the Royal Navy upon an equality in pay, rank, and eligibility for receiving marks of distinction, with any other class of Officers in that Service. The duties of a Master in Her Majesty's Navy were only second to those of the captain or the commander of the vessel in which he acted, and he should be glad, if time permitted, to show the House how those officers entered the service, and how they were treated in comparison with other officers who entered at the same time. The Masters entered as second class cadets, and they served six years as Masters' assistants before they become eligible for the position of Master. Entering the service at the age of fifteen they would be twenty-one before being eligible for second Masters, while the cadet at nineteen was eligible for a lieutenant. True, at the commencement they received as Masters' assistants more pay than the first class naval cadets; but as the latter gained more rapid promotion, their pay quickly exceeded that of the Master, though the expenses and the mess were the same. The Master began with a sense of inferiority which stuck to him through life, and marred his hopes of fame and rank. The Master, having served twenty-five years, would obtain the nominal rank of staff commander, and be in receipt of £1 per diem. The lieutenant who had served from seven to nine years would have gained his promotion as commander, and in nine years' service, according to the new scheme—from which the Masters were to derive no benefit whatever—the lieutenant would be in receipt of £1 per diem. Five years more would make the lieutenant a post-captain, when he would receive from £400 to £800 a year, besides command money. The staff commander, having served a greater length of time, would receive only £365 per annum. He
 1210 "It would be satisfactory to the class of Masters generally if they were placed, with regard to relative rank, pay, pensions, and social position, on the same footing as that now held by medical officers, of whom they have always had the precedence since the Order in Council of the 28th of March, 1808." 1211 Osborne
 MR. ADAM  said, he, for one, thanked the hon. and gallant Member for Wake-field for bringing forward the question, which he was glad to see was put upon its proper footing. It was no use to attempt to remedy the evils in the management of Greenwich Hospital without going to the root of the matter, which was the system of government going on there. The course which the Admiralty had pursued with respect to the question under discussion was, in his opinion, most extraordinary. They had for some reason or other put off dealing with it from year to year. They had chosen to withdraw a Bill which had been introduced on the subject a short time ago, which might have passed into a law, and by which a considerable reform might have been effected. The Admiralty then went to sleep, and were roused from their slumbers only by some letters which had appeared in  The Times The Times "The three Commissioners live away from the Hospital and come down once a week and spend an hour there. Their principal occupation is to quarrel with the Governor. The Governor told the Commission of 1860 that they never called upon him to consult upon the business of the Hospital, for the welfare of which they were all alike appointed. They confine themselves to rejecting, in terms of greater or less discourtesy, every application which he makes for the good of the pensioners. The office of the Admiralty at Whitehall is full of the angry correspondence which the two departments of the Hospital address to head-quarters, each complaining of the other. The civil department, apart from the house room and repairs, cost the Hospital, in 1859, £12,635 a year, or the equivalent of the allowances recommended by the Commission of 1860 for 420 pensioners' wives and 840 pensioners' children." 1155
 SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR : Then I beg to give the statement of the hon.
 1199
 SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR : It may appear superfluous and even presumptuous in me to attempt to add a single word to the lucid and exhaustive statement which has just been addressed to the House by my learned Friend the Lord Advocate; but I hope, nevertheless, that I may be permitted to offer one or two brief observations upon the subject-matter of the Motion now under consideration. When the same Motion, or one with a similar object, was brought forward by my hon. Friend the Member for Montrose (Mr. Baxter) in 1858, I abstained from voting on that occasion, because my mind was not definitely made up upon the subject. But whatever may have been my doubts then, further reflection, combined with the five years' experience I have gained in the office I have now the honour to hold, has satisfied me that no substantial advantage would be derived from any change — or, at all events, any material change — in the administration of Scotch affairs in this House. The hon. and gallant Member for Ayrshire, who introduced the Motion, has disclaimed any intention of finding fault with the present management of Scotch business; but if his Motion has any meaning at all, it must mean that he considers it unsatisfactory. That, no doubt, is his honest opinion, and it has the sanction of some other Scotch Members; but I make bold to say that that opinion is not shared by the House generally. If there is one thing more than another connected with the transactions and proceedings of this House which I have heard remarked upon with commendation by hon. Members on both sides of the House with whom I am in constant intercourse, it is the mode in which Scotch measures are brought forward and carried through. I, for my part, do not believe that business is less efficiently performed because it is quietly and unostentatiously conducted; nor do I consider that it detracts from the importance or the efficacy and usefulness of pub-
 1197 1198
 SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR : I speak, Sir, under correction. I certainly understood the hon. Member to say that I had stated either to him or to somebody else that, as I am connected with the Duchy of Cornwall, I did not feel myself occupying the position of a representative of Scotch interests.
 SIR WILLIAM MILES  joined his hearty wish to that expressed by his hon. Friend near him, that the Secretary of the Admiralty would consider the case of the Staff Masters. He had had the honour of sitting upon the Committee, and he conceived that there was no class of officers in the Royal Navy whose case deserved greater consideration than that of the Staff Masters. He believed that if England were polled as to this question, there would be a unanimous opinion expressed that their position ought to be improved. He thought that the claims of all the other officers of the navy should be likewise considered.
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  said, the hon. and gallant Member who had just sat down was the last person who should have objected to these powers being given. The Bill he introduced was referred back to the Committee, and they unanimously decided that the Railway Company might have these boats, and they had the power of running steamboats.
 MR. CARD WELL : It appears, Sir, from the papers which have already been laid upon the table with reference to New Zealand, that the Imperial Government is engaged to the Colonial Government to submit to Parliament a proposal for a Loan for the various expenses connected with the war in New Zealand; and it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to make a proposal on the subject during the present Session. The papers are now being printed, and will, I believe, be in the hands of Members in a few days. I shall then take the earliest opportunity of making a statement on the subject.
 VISCOUNT PALMEESTON : With regard, Sir, to the first part of the Question, I trust that neither the hon. Member nor the House will think that I am wanting in respect if I am unable, with propriety, to state what have been the proceedings of the Conference with regard to the general matters which they have in hand. In the first place, an agreement was come to by the Plenipotentiaries, that the proceedings should be known only to themselves until some final arrangement was arrived at, and I am sure that the House will see that communications from time to time of what may have passed at particular meetings of the Conference, so far from rendering more easy a satisfactory arrangement, would probably interpose difficulties which it would not be easy to overcome. With respect to the latter part of the Question, I am at liberty to say that no arrangement has yet been made for the continuation of the suspension of arms, which will last till the 12th of this month, but there is good reason to hope that at the next meeting of the Conference some arrangement for that purpose may be made.
 MR. CARD WELL : Sir. we have not received so much news as has appeared in the newspapers. Through our Consul at Alexandria we received the earlier information contained in the newspapers, which was favourable to the success of our arms. The second part, which is of a mixed character, and apparently involving the discomfiture of our arms more or less, has not been received through any official source.
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  trusted that there would be no delay in placing before Parliament the warrant on which Sir "William Mansfield had acted; but before that warrant was before the House, he would carefully avoid any allusion to cases to which the hon. Gentleman who introduced the subject had alluded. He would wish to point out, however, that it was four, not three, years since the pledge referred to was given. It was given on the 3rd of
 1272
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, that when the subjects of the transfer to the Crown and the re-organization of the Indian army were before the House he was present and took a humble part in the debates. Throughout the speeches that were made on these occasions, those holding high positions in the Government said that it was but fair and right that full consideration should be given to the claims of the Indian army. The right hon. Baronet was then warned of the difficulties which must attend the amalgamation of the Indian with the Royal Army. Those difficulties had arisen; and the right hon. Gentleman, notwithstanding his cleverness and his desire to do justice, had been unable to contend with them. Upon that occasion a full pledge was given to the officers of the Indian army, that all their rights and privileges should be. faithfully preserved to them. The right hon. Gentleman had been saying that he had to take care that no injustice was done to the officers of the Royal army. Now he (Sir Minto Farquhar) would be the last person to sanction the slightest injustice to the Royal army—indeed he had a son in that army—but why did the right hon. Gentleman mix up the two armies? He ought to have known that if no injustice was to be done to the Royal army, how difficult it would be to carry out his promises to the Indian army. The petitions sent to this country from officers in the Indian army were not a single petition, or half-a-dozen, or twenty, but absolutely hundreds—officers who felt that the pledge made to them had not been carried out. The hon. and gallant Member for Harwich (Captain Jervis) and himself in 1862 asked for a Committee to investigate the subject-matter of these petitions. The right hon. Gentleman, after taking a month to consider the subject, said he did not think it would be advantageous to the service to have such a Committee. Thereupon his gallant Friend immediately placed a notice on the paper, that he would move the appointment of a Committee himself; and when, after having the circumstances put before them, the pressure of the House was about to be put on the right hon. Gentleman, he came forward and proposed
 1276
 LORD HENRY LENNOX : Sir, before you leave the Chair, I am anxious to put a Question to my hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Liskeard (Mr. Bernal Os-borne) whether he is satisfied with the nature and the tenour of the reply he just now received from the noble Viscount at the head of Her Majesty's Government? for, if he is satisfied, I feel no hesitation in saying that he is the only Member in the House who is so; and when to-morrow morning the newspapers carry the intelligence over the country, I venture to say that few of their readers will sympathize with the answer of the noble Viscount. The noble Lord and the Government have all along discouraged any attempt on the part of the House to inquire what was going on in the Conference; and if complete secresy had been observed throughout Europe with regard to what was going on in the Council Chamber in Downing Street I should be the very last to undertake the responsibility of pressing upon
 1277
 MR. KINGLAKE  said, he thought it would be lamentable if the language used on this or the other side of the House should have the effect of extorting from Her Majesty's Government any disclosures perilous to the cause of peace. He frankly acknowledged that he appreciated to the full the argument addressed by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Bucks to the Government, for he put it with great force, that the silence of the House during several weeks had been purchased by the declaration made by the Government of the views and principles with which they were going into the Conference. But he must call upon the House to remember, that during the discussions which took place at an earlier period, just before the Conference commenced, the Government, being asked repeatedly to state on what basis they proposed to go to the Conference, at length stated, though with the greatest reluctance, that the parties to the Conference were meeting without any other basis than a common desire of restoring peace to the North of Europe. Surely that statement was a retractation of that other and impossible principle which the Government propounded to the House at an earlier period of the Session; and he thought, therefore, that those who valued the peace of Europe should welcome the retirement of Her Majesty's Government from a position which was perceived, all over Europe, to be untenable, rather than taunt them with the words which they used earlier in the Session.
 MR. COWPER  said, he desired to take that opportunity of making some explanation on the subject. The Vote had its origin in the conviction on the part of the Government that the time was come when an attempt should be made to solve the
 1298 1299 1300 1301 1302
 MR. COWPER  said, the military authorities had on many occasions strongly protested against their taking the barracks; but supposing they were to take in the barracks and the workhouse, it would give an area of three and a half acres, which was the size of the Burlington House site. The proposed Gallery at Burlington House would certainly be larger than the Galleries of Berlin or Munich, and more floor space than the Louvre, though not more wall space.
 MR. COWPER  said, that after the speech of the noble Lord he wished to make a few remarks in reply. In the first place, he thought the noble Lord did not agree with the hon. Member who spoke last in fervent admiration of the existing building. It was humiliating to the nation that its fine pictures should be placed in a building so unworthy of them. It was an ignoble, disjointed, mean, and petty building, and yet full of pretension. The exterior was unsatisfactory, and the internal arrange merits were equally so. The rooms were too low for the proper lighting of the pictures and too small for the circulation of the visitors. It was wanting both in the dignity and the convenience of a national building. As the noble Lord knew, the gallery was not large enough to contain all the pictures that ought to be hung. If, however, it was possible to remain content with the present building, he would not propose to interfere with it; but when it was a question of building, it was proper to consider the right place and the right way of building. The suggestion of the noble Lord to run a light gallery over the barrack-yard was open to the objection that it would interfere with the light and air of the barracks, while the visitors to the gallery would be annoyed by the noises in the barrack-yard underneath them. The noble Lord's proposal would not prevent the large expenditure which had been alluded to, as although the gallery as constructed according to the noble Lord's proposal would
 1319 1320 1321
 MR. PEEL  stated that this sum was required to defray the expenditure of the Privy Council Office under the Public Health Act. £3,000 was annually placed at the disposal of the Privy Council to pay medical and other officers who were from time to time deputed to conduct inquiries and experiments; £2,000 was for the national vaccine establishment; £2,000 for vaccination inspection, and the remaining £3,600 was a matter of account arising from the medical department of the Privy
 1334
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, the Secretary to the Treasury had already explained the source from which those gentlemen were paid. He did not exactly understand what it was the hon. Gentleman complained of in the Report. He appeared to admit the great ability of the Report generally, but he took exception to Professor Gamgee's Report on cattle diseases in general, who was engaged under the direction of the Inspector to make that Report. There was great doubt as to the origin and extent of the diseases of cattle, and a Select Committee was investigating the subject, and
 1335
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGEEALD  pointed out that, under the 3rd clause, powers were given to companies to make railways where there was no opposition; and under the 9th clause limit was imposed to the opposition. This latter clause he objected to, for there was no power of opposition, in case of consent of all the landowners on the line, by any party other than a railway or canal company, although damage might be done to parties whose land was not scheduled. He would not, however, object to the Bill going into Committee.
 LORD ELCHO  said, that before the Chairman reported Progress, he wished to express a hope with regard to the Vote for the National Gallery. The Committee having rejected the Vote of £150,000 for a new National Gallery in one of its economical fits ["No!"] — well, then, in one of its uneconomical fits ["Oh!"] —he wished to know what course the Government intended to take. The feeling of the Committee appeared to be in favour of retaining the National Gallery in its present site, but any person who had attended to the discussion must have come to the conclusion that the House of Commons desired to have a building in every way worthy of the nation. If not, there was no meaning in the Vote the Committee had come to. Now, he found by a letter to the Treasury, written by Sir Benjamin Hall some years ago, that the estimate of Mr. Hunt, the Surveyor of Public Buildings, for enlarging and improving the National Gallery—an estimate demanded by the Treasury a few years ago—was £500,000; and he wished to know whether, before the Session closed, the Government would be prepared to ask the House for a Vote towards the erection of the new National Gallery, which the Committee wished to occupy the site of the present building. ["No !"] If this was not the wish of the Committee, it had only stultified itself by its Vote that night. He would not press for an answer to his question at that moment, but he would express a hope that the Government would take the matter into consideration.
 LORD ELCHO , who had risen at the same time, interposing, said, he thought it would greatly facilitate the discussion if the noble Lord would allow him to put the following Questions to the right hon. Gentleman. First, Whether he could state to the Committee the relative space contained in the Burlington House site compared with the present National Gallery buildings, the barracks, and the workhouse in the rear; and second, whether he could give them any information what accommodation space this portion of Burlington House would give, in comparison with the other large galleries of Europe?
 LORD ELCHO  said, that his vote on this subject would be solely dictated by an honest belief as to what would be for the real interest of art. His noble Friend thought it for the interest of art that the pictures should remain in Trafalgar Square, but in that he differed from him. He thought it would be for the interests of art that the pictures should be transferred to Burlington House. In 1856, when he brought forward the subject of a Royal Commission, he had a wild vision of all these fine works of art being collected together at Kensington Palace. That was a
 1322 1323 1324
 LORD JOHN MANNERS , in rising to move the rejection of the Supplementary Estimate for the new National Gallery, Burlington House, said he was disposed to concur in one observation which had been made by the right hon. Gentleman.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  was about to say, when he was interrupted by the noble
 1303 1304 1305 "The Government assumed that the building in Trafalgar Square was to be given up to the National Gallery, and that that building, if so given up now, would suffice for some years for all the pictures belonging to the nation. … They proposed, therefore, to adopt the simplest possible course—to deck over the middle gulf and make an even floor upon the upper story, which for the present would afford sufficient space for the exhibition of the national pictures, and when the Royal Academy should otherwise be provided for would make the building more adapted for the purposes of a national collection, and for years to come would avoid the necessity for the large plan and great expenditure which had been suggested." —[3  Hansard "The plan proposed was calculated to make the present building more suitable than at present for the permanent reception of the national collection." — [ Itid 1306 "Now that the Royal Academy should go elsewhere was, he apprehended, a question already decided. The material point to be determined upon was where they were to go. The arrangement now making involved the intention of appropriating the whole of the building to the national pictures."—[ Ibid 1307 1308 1309 "In the first place, I think it is important, as regards a site for the National Gallery, that it should be in immediate connection with the great thoroughfares, at the same time, however, affording retirement and seclusion from them, and it seems to me that Burlington House presents, in that respect, peculiar facilities and advantages." "I think, in the second place, the present elevation of Burlington House is peculiarly graceful and elegant"— "The equal of which, in the general opinion of the community, we should stand little chance in producing if we made the attempt… …In addition to that, such a removal of the National Gallery to Burlington House would enable the Royal Academy to remain in its present position, which, from its extreme publicity, is well suited for the purposes of the Royal Academy, while it is, on the same account, rather disadvantageous for the purposes of the National Gallery." 1310 "For the objects of the Royal Academy during the annual exhibition, it is essential that they should be near a thoroughfare." "You would object to their being placed in the garden behind the existing houses?" "It would be tantamount to the extinction of the institution." "What would be your opinion of Burlington House, with the present open space in front of it, and the gardens behind it, as a desirable or undesirable site for the National Gallery?—I think it would be a very good site." "Can you suggest any better site?—I cannot." 1311 "Is not the present site as good, if not better, than Burlington House, and would not all the reasons that have been urged to the advantage of the present site for the Royal Academy equally apply with regard to the exhibition of the National Gallery?" "I confess I think there is some truth in the reasons I have heard given by Lord Overstone, with regard to the comparative seclusion of Burlington House; I think that a quiet preparation before approaching pictures by the Old Masters is desirable. It never struck me before; but I have been impressed with that and other observations I have heard from Lord Overstone." "You think that calm preparation, which is desirable before approaching the Old Masters, is not necessary before-entering upon a collection by modern artists?" "I quite think so. I think that the works of our fellow citizens are more nearly allied to present and public interests; and that the transition is easier from the crowds of London to the efforts of living artists than to productions which belong to a remote period." "Is not it the case that modern works have more the character of a show, while the exhibition of the Old Masters has more the character of study?" "I do not like to use the word 'show,' with regard to the excellent pictures which we sometimes see on the walls of the Royal Academy, but I admit the principle completely." 1312 1313 1314 1315
 LORD ROBERT CECIL : Sir, I regret that no member of the Treasury Bench has thought fit to answer my hon. Friend, but that the Government seem determined to bring this debate to a conclusion without giving the House of Commons any of the information that it seeks. The noble Lord has told us calmly to reflect upon the motives of Her Majesty's Government. I have done my best calmly to reflect upon them, and I have come to the conclusion that the answer to that appeal is, that this is the 6th of June. The noble Lord knows that if by such answers he can veil himself behind his position of negotiator— if he can put off day by day the necessity of giving the House of Commons the account he is bound to render—if he can put off explanations until an advanced period of the summer, the Government is safe, at least for this year—and to the noble Lord and those who sit with him the welfare of Denmark, the maintenance of treaties, and the fulfilment of the pledged word of England, are trifles compared with that which is paramount in their minds, namely, the advanced stage of the Session, I think the noble Lord is making an experiment on the patience of the House and the country, which will not be answered by the results. It is idle to talk of details. We all know he has made a complete change of policy. We all know, from sources which we cannot doubt, although they are not officially confirmed, that the dismemberment of Denmark has been approved—nay, proposed—by Her Majesty's Government themselves. I say it is idle to attempt to withdraw their conduct from the judgment of the country and the House of Commons. The reason why the House of Commons and the country are becoming impatient of the length of time that the Conference has dragged on, and are beginning to intrude on that sacred reserve which the noble Lord claims for the position of negotiator, is that they are made to suspect that under the auspices of the noble Lord, England, under pretence of serving and defending Denmark, is in reality betraying her. She has pushed Denmark from concession to concession—she has first forced her
 1290
 MR. AYRTON  said, that if when the noble Lord opposite (Lord John Manners) made his clear and conclusive speech the House had been as full as it was now, the Government must have been induced to withdraw the Vote in deference to the general feeling. The noble Lord had shown that at the period when the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire announced to the House that the National Gallery was to remain where it was, the statement was received with unanimous satisfaction on both sides. The noble Viscount now at the head of the Government in 1860 fully accepted that announcement; and in asking for a Vote of £17,000, pledged himself that the National Gallery should remain where it was for the reception of the National pictures, and that an early arrangement should be made for the Royal Academy to quit the building. How was it that, in face of such statements, the question had remained in abeyance? It was on account of the ideas entertained by the managers of matters at Kensington, who, in one of their earliest Reports, claimed to have the National Gallery removed thither; and the influence of that illustrious body continued until the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire announced, simultaneously with his statement that the National Gallery should be devoted to the national pictures, that the Government had dissolved its partnership with the Kensington people. Why had the noble Viscount not kept his pledge? It was said there had been the Report of a Commission which had changed the current of opinion both in and out of the House. The noble Lord (Lord Elcho) did not seem accurately to recollect the transactions of his own Commission; for on the question of the site for a new National Gallery, they stated that they forbore, as being beyond their province, from giving
 1325 1326
 MR. AYRTON  protested against entering upon the Bill at two o'clock in the morning. Hon. Members were not to sit there to aid the Corporation in levying taxes to enable them to give dinners. He would not prolong the discussion, but would call the attention of the Speaker to the fact that there were not forty Members present.
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether any official confirmation of the recent news from New Zealand has been received by the Government?
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  asked for some explanation of an item of £10,600 charged for Contingent Expenses.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, that one very strong recommendation of the present site of the National Gallery was that it formed a very fine space capable of enlargement, and made the building what a National Gallery in every other capital appeared, a conspicuous object. A heavy expense had been incurred in adjusting the square in front of it, and the building, though many hon. Gentlemen objected to the architecture, was, in his eye, plain, simple, and handsome; the portico, which was removed from Carlton House, being very beautiful. At the time the building was erected complaints were made that it wanted heighth; but if the dome and what were called the "pepper-boxes" were taken away, a very fine gallery might be constructed above the present rooms, and elevation would thus be given to the whole structure. The sum of £17,000, which was expended in altering the interior, was granted expressly on the condition that the building should permanently remain the National Gallery. The right hon. Gentleman the First Commissioner of Works had said that the proposed new gallery would all be lighted from above; but it was a great mistake to have a picture gallery entirely lighted in that way. A large proportion of pictures were painted from a side light, and there ought to be a side light in portions of a National Gallery, in order that some pictures, and particularly cabinet pictures, might be viewed in the same light as they were painted in. The National Gallery was so favourably situated that an additional set of apartments erected on the top of the present would be completely placed above the thick atmosphere of London, which did not ascend above a certain height. True, there was a large chimney belonging to the Government waterworks at the back constantly belching out smoke; but that chimney was under the special charge of the right hon. Gentleman the Commissioner of Works, and, when an Act of Parliament had been passed to do away with smoke, it was disgraceful that so much smoke from that chimney was allowed to be sent forth. At Burlington
 1318
 MR. LAYARD  said, that he could only repeat the explanations he had given upon that subject on former occasions. A large portion of the Government correspondence was at present conducted through the electric telegraph. The despatches were sent in cipher, and the answers to them were communicated in the same form. The Government afterwards published the substance of them, although in different language. The objection to marking despatches sent in cipher with an indication that it had been so sent was that by that means materials would be furnished by which ingenious persons so disposed might obtain a key to the cipher used.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I hardly know anything in our Parliamentary system which to my mind is more to be admired than the reserve which obtains in Parliament when it is known that Her Majesty's Government are engaged in important negotiations upon which the question of peace or war may turn. I think it a characteristic of our system which marks it out from all other attempts at Parliamentary government, and is one of the surest guarantees for the endurance of constitutional rule. But I must say that, after listening to the observations and accepting without annoyance the taunt of the hon. Gentleman who has just addressed us about moving the "Previous Question,"—I having moved the "Previous Question" on a former occasion, when I thought it was for the interest of the country and due to Her Majesty's Government—I must say that I was disappointed by the answer which the noble Lord gave to the Question which was put to him by the hon. Gentleman at the commencement of our proceedings this evening. Wishing for the sake of the highest considerations, for the advantage of the country, to acknowledge in the fullest spirit the sound privilege which attaches to a Government in the position of carrying on negotiations—and negotiations by a Conference — I think that, in the circumstances in which we now find ourselves, it would have been salutary, and it would have been wise and politic on the part of Her Majesty's Government, to have shown more candour and frankness than has been exhibited by the noble Lord to-night. Because you must remember that Parliamentary reserve under these circumstances depends upon one constitutional condition, and when that is observed the Parliamentary reserve is perfectly intelligible and constitutional. The condition of the reserve
 1280 on dit 1281 1282 1283 1284 1285 1286
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  was understood to say that he did not think it desirable at present to go into all the questions referred to by the hon. and gallant Member behind him (Colonel Sykes). He regretted much that the warrant to which allusion had just been made was not on the table of the House; but it was not his fault— he had done his best to get it completed. The preparation of it had received from the noble Lord the Secretary for War, and from the Commander-in-Chief, as well as from himself, considerable attention and pains, and they had endeavoured by every means to reconcile the claims and wishes of both classes of officers, and he hoped the result would be satisfactory to the House. The principle had been agreed upon some time ago, but a variety of modifications had been proposed; but it took more trouble and pains to come to a fair conclusion than could be supposed. The warrant had now been completed, and he hoped that in two or three days it would have received the sign manual. Before it was signed he could not, of course, in accordance with the ordinary practice, lay it upon the table. He did not quite understand what had fallen from the hon. Member for Windsor (Mr. Vansittart) relative to the Civil Service. Of course, when an officer came home on leave he  ipso facto
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  would say to the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken, as he would to the hon. and gallant Member who had introduced this subject, that it was exceedingly inconvenient that, on a question of this general kind, particular cases like those which had been referred to should be cited without notice. Had the
 1273
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, no doubt the English troops were more expensive than the Native ones, but the difference of expense was by no means one that could
 1274 1275
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, that there was a fear lest the delay would be injurious chiefly to one party, and that the weakest. The present period of the year was more favourable than any other to naval operations in the Baltic, and it
 1291
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, that he was not satisfied with the explanation. He looked upon this as a mere piece of official obstinacy and red-tapism.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would take that occasion to ask for some explanation in respect to the despatches written by and received at the office o the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs He thought that some distinguishing marl should be placed upon the despatches published in the blue-book, in order to show which of them were communicated by telegram, and which had been written it
 1333
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he wished to know whether the armistice would not expire on Sunday next?
 MR. CARDWELL : Sir, the military expenditure of Ceylon is £200,000. It is paid in equal proportions by the Imperia and the Colonial Governments. In the
 1262
 MR. LYALL  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, What arrangement has been made between the Ceylon and the English Government for reducing the charge on the Imperial Exchequer for the Military Expenditure in that Colony; and whether, in consequence of the great prosperity of the Island, there is an early prospect of releasing this Country altogether from that charge, and placing Ceylon, in that respect, on the same footing as India?
 MR. SCLATER BOOTH  said, that the noble Lord had assumed a great deal in the interpretation he had put upon the Vote. The House of Commons had simply rejected the scheme of the Government, and had expressed no opinion with regard to a building worthy of the nation. They had expressed no wish that a new National Gallery should be built in Trafalgar Square, but the feeling rather was that a very moderate extension of the present building would be sufficient. What the
 1336
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, that if the noble Lord (Lord John Manners) had remained a short time longer in office something would have been done in this matter. He could not assent to this Vote unless there should be some agreement come to between the Government and the Royal Academy. Six years ago the Royal Academy would have accepted the offer of the noble Lord to build their own gallery in Burlington Gardens, and if the Government had given them a site of the value just mentioned, that would have given a sufficient hold upon them to oblige them to come to any terms the House might have chosen to lay down. That arrangement was broken up; the Royal Commission did not appear to have advanced them at all, and the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cowper) now came down with a scheme the only recommendation of which appeared to be that it was the very reverse of the scheme of the noble Lord. In his opinion the site of the National Gallery was the best site for the national pictures. The Royal Academy was a very popular exhibition for three months in the year, and wherever it might go the public would be sure to find it out, and visit the collection as readily as they did in its present situation. Nor did he see what claim they had to have the whole of the site handed over to them. The right hon. Gentleman attributed to the noble Lord a wish to build a gallery at right angles to the present building, reaching over the barrack square; but all the noble Lord said was, that there was every facility for obtaining increased accommodation if it was required. He, however, believed that there was sufficient accommodation in the building for the present collection, and that there would be for years to come.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, the chief argument in favour of the Government proposal had been stated to be that of economy. Now, in 1848, Sir Charles Barry on being asked to give his opinion as to what could be done with the site in Trafalgar Square, prepared a plan which showed that the National Gallery might be so extended and improved as to afford six times the amount of accommodation now given to the national pictures and the Royal Academy combined. Sir Charles Barry had shown how by taking part of the site of the workhouse and a part of the barracks a gallery might be erected sufficient for the wants of a century to Come. When a railway company could go to any quarter of London and build a large terminus, laying out in various ways the ground round about it, why should the Government alone be impotent to procure sufficient space for an important public institution? It was the Kensington Gore scheme which prevented the Report of the Committee of 1848 being acted upon. Anybody looking at the Reports of that Committee might see there was a practical course traced out which the Government had nothing to do but to follow with advantage to the country. On the ground of economy he supported the proposition of the noble Lord opposite.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, When the promised Ecclesiastical Registry Bill will be introduced by
 1292 1293 1294 1295 1296
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  had only expressed a hope that there were other reasons for their opposition.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he wished to know whether any arrangement has been made to prevent the war being renewed between the expiration of the armistice and the next meeting of the Conference, if that meeting should not take place until the existing suspension of hostilities is at an end.
 MR. WALTER  said, he had not the honour of being acquainted with a single member of the Royal Academy, and had not to acknowledge even the compliment which was paid to his noble Friend (Lord Elcho), so much, it seemed, to his surprise. He looked at this question as simply one of fact, which any hon. Member could decide for himself from his own observation, and without reading the Report of the Commission. The fact was that we had two great institutions side by
 1328
 MR. HASSARD  said, this Bill was applicable only to railway companies, and he could not see any reason why it should not be equally applicable to gas and water companies, many of which would be established in small places if they could get an Act of incorporation or an Act of Parliament without going to an enormous expense. In some cases the capital required would not exceed £1,500 or £2,000, while the expense of obtaining an Act would be about £500.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Before the Committee goes to a division I hope it will seriously consider the position in which it is placed by the speech just delivered by the noble Lord. I well remember, on an evening when the House was remarkably thin, when there were barely forty Members in it, that the noble Lord induced those forty Members to pass a Vote of £ 17,000 for the enlargement of the Gallery in Trafalgar Square precisely for the reason
 1331 "He regretted as much as the hon. Member could do that such long periods should elapse before any conclusion could be arrived at as to the disposal of buildings of that kind, the price of which had been paid and which entailed a large annual charge for interest. He had no hesitation in saying that this and other circumstances of a like kind were entirely owing to the lamentable and deplorable state of our whole arrangement with regard to the management of our public works." "Vacillation, uncertainty, costliness, extravagance, meanness, and all the conflicting vices that could be enumerated, were united in our present system. There was a total want of authority to direct and guide." 1332 "He believed such were the evils of the system that nothing short of a revolutionary reform would ever be sufficient to rectify it."
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : I do not know what assurance I can give the House on this subject. Before I give any I should wish hon. Gentlemen on the other side to give me some assurance that, in the event of my again resusci-
 1278 1279
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether the Conference has arrived at any decision respecting the maintenance of the Treaty of London, and whether the noble Lord is in a situation to communicate it to the House; and whether the suspension of arms between Denmark and the conflicting Powers has been prolonged?
 MR. CRAWFORD  moved the second reading of the Bill. The City of London possessed by prescription and by charter from James I. the right of measuring all grain brought within the port of London. It was proposed by this Bill that this privilege should be commuted for a charge upon the weight of the grain, the result of which would be that Mansion House charges amounting to £2,000 a year would be relinquished. The grain according to the proposal made would be weighed for 25 per cent less than the sum now charged upon the measurement. The Corporation would relinquish a sum of £5,000 per annum. The hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) had given notice that inasmuch as the Bill seeks to impose a Tax, in part for the private use and benefit of the Corporation and for no public purpose, on all grain imported into the port of London, the Bill ought not to be proceeded with until the Standing Orders relating to Private Bills had been complied with. This was entirely erroneous. The Bill had the assent of the trade, the assent of the chairman of the Corn Exchange, and of the chairman of a public meeting held for taking the matter into consideration. It was not for the private use of the Corporation of London; the Corporation had no private interests, but applied its revenues for the public good. The Bill was not solicited by the Corporation after the manner of Private Bills, but was a necessary supplement to the Inland Revenue Bill of the year. The whole of the trade of London was affected by its provisions, and it had the same rights and affected the same interests as the many Acts relating to London which had been brought in as Public Bills.
 MR. TORRENS  said, that when the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for India introduced his Bill for the amalgamation of the Royal and Indian armies, he did not seem to have sufficiently considered the difficulties attending that step, and the detailed provisions which were required, and that circumstance was a sufficient justification for the opposition offered by some hon. Members. The right hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) in consequence took steps to secure for the Indian army all the privileges which they had previously enjoyed; and those who opposed the Bill were only induced to withdraw their opposition on the distinct pledge of that House and the Government, that the rights and privileges of the officers of the Indian army should be respected. It is now three years since that pledge was given, and how had that pledge been kept? He was sorry to say for the sake of the honour of the House that it had been broken; and he entreated the right hon. Gentleman, for the sake of the honour of the House and for his own, to redeem the pledge that was given, and in reliance on which opposition to the Bill was withdrawn.
 MR. AYTOUN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to ask Parliament for its sanction of a guarantee of interest for a Loan for New Zealand; and, if so, what is the amount of the Loan for which a guarantee is to be asked, and whether the guarantee will be applied for during the present Session; and, if so, at what period of the Session?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  observed, that the Committee did not clearly see their way to laying down any general conditions applicable to all works, and had, therefore, refrained from making any recommendation on the subject.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that landowners under this Bill were in a better position than they would be under a Private Bill. All persons whose lands were touched by the proposed works must not only have given their consent, but the agreement between the purchaser and
 1337
 MR. FERRAND  said, that much had been said in the interest of art—he wished to make a remark in the interest of the taxpayers. On Friday last the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had read a severe lecture to some hon. Members who ventured to suggest that justice should be done to certain naval officers at the expense of a few thousand pounds; and he called on the House to support him in resisting the Motion, and spoke of the suffering which a large portion of the taxpayers endured by reason of the imposts which he was obliged to levy from them. Now, however, the right hon. Gentleman, when a Vote of £150,000 was asked for, for the removal of the
 1327
 MR. GREGORY  said, he intended to vote for the proposal of the Government with a perfect conviction that we had arrived at the point at which the scheme of the right hon. Gentleman was the only one that could be accepted. He believed that no person ever passed the present National Gallery building without feelings of disgust. There were buildings to whose unpretentious ugliness one became reconciled; but about the National Gallery building there was something perpetually intolerable and offensive. Inside, matters were almost worse. The whole of Europe might be ransacked without finding a building so unfitted in every respect for the reception of a national collection of pictures. If they wished to amend the exterior they must pull it down; they could only render the interior fit for use by gutting it entirely. The noble Lord opposite (Lord J. Manners) had referred to the opinion of Sir Charles Barry. Well, he (Mr. Gregory) had been looking to the evidence of Sir Charles Barry in 1848. He said—
 "I am of opinion that if the site of St. Martin's Workhouse were purchased, if an alteration were made in the barrack-yard, if a piece of Castle Street were stopped, and if the portico and other portions of the building were taken down, and if considerable additions were made to the present building, then I should consider the site to be one of the best in England." 1316 1317
 COLONEL SYKES  said, his argument was based on the question of finance.
 COLONEL SYKES  rose to call attention to the grievances of the Officers of the local Armies of India. Since the Royal Commission reported upon this subject six grievances had been added to those of which the Officers previously had to complain, and the dissatisfaction was now extending to the Native portion of what was formerly the Regular Native Army of India. According to the accounts which he received, what was called "the re-organization" of the Native Army of India had occasioned very considerable disquiet, mistrust, and suspicion. Some explanation of this phrase "re-organization of the Army of India" was necessary to a right understanding of his Question. In early days — about 1757 — the East India Company raised men to defend their factories, and these gradually increased in number till companies grew into battalions, battalions in to brigades, and brigades into armies; but during the whole of that time the officering of those regiments by European gentlemen or adventurers was dependent upon accident, and in the history of the Bengal army they rarely heard of more than ten or twelve officers to each. The
 1265 1266 élite élite 1267 1268 1269 Overland Times 1270 Vict "That the Military and Naval Forces of the East India Company should be deemed to be the Military and Naval Forces of Her Majesty, and should be under the same obligations to serve Her Majesty as they would have been under to serve the said Company, and should be liable to serve under the same territorial limits only, for the same terms only, and be entitled to the like pay, pensions, allowances, and privileges, and the like advantages as regards promotion and otherwise, as if they had continued in the service of the said Company;"
 MR. VANSITTART  said, that there was no doubt, as mentioned by his hon. and gallant Friend, that the Officers of the Indian Army generally had great grounds for complaint. In referring to the Report of the Commissioners and the appendix which had been placed upon the table a few days ago, it could not fail to strike any candid mind that those officers had been superseded in the most grievous manner. The Commissioners in the 42nd paragraph of their Report were constrained to acknowledge it, inasmuch as they said that the Parliamentary assurances had not been adhered it. The injustice complained of might be ascribed entirely to the creation of that new-fangled corps, called the Staff Corps; for by the rules of that body all promotion went to advance officers who had been so fortunate as to be attached to it, to the prejudice of officers who were serving in their own regiments. In fact, persons had been appointed to the command of regiments they had never heard of. Instances had been brought to his notice of officers belonging to the Madras Presidency having been sent over to the Bengal Presidency to supersede officers who had never left their regiments. But this injustice was not entirely confined to the Military Service—it extended even to the Civil Service of India, because civilians serving in the Punjab and out-provinces having obtained furloughs to return to Europe in order to recruit their shattered health found upon coming back that their appointments had been conferred upon striplings who commanded sufficient interest, and had been fortunate enough to be attached to the Staff. They were thus thrown for promotion upon the
 1271
 MR. VANSITTART  said, what he wanted to convey, and what he believed he did convey, was, that all the civil appointments in Oude and the Punjab, when a civil officer returned to England to recruit his shattered health, were filched away from them and given to the officers of the Staff Corps.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that any idea that there had been any correspondence with the Bishops on the subject, was wholly unfounded. What he stated had reference to a Bill prepared with great care by the Lord Chancellor for the reform of the Ecclesiastical Courts, and the amendment of the law of clergy discipline, and it was to this effect — that the Bill having been prepared, the noble and learned Lord had had conferences with some of the Prelates, which satisfied him that if he proposed the measure it would not receive that amount of support which would secure its success. Apart from the question as to where the funds for the prosecutions were to come from, and upon which the only proposal
 1297
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, his hon. Friend had—unintentionally, no doubt— ascribed to him words which he had never used, and had not correctly represented what he had said in answer to the questions addressed to him on the subject. The hon. Gentleman seemed under the impression that he (Sir George Grey) had said that, having prepared a Bill for the reform of the Ecclesiastical Courts, he had had a correspondence with some of the Prelates; that they, front interested motives, desiring to retain in their own hands for the benefit of their families certain appointments, objected to the measure, and that the Government yielded to their objections. Nothing could be further from a correct statement of the facts. He had never said anything conveying such an imputation.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he was glad to hear the hon. Gentleman speaking of the separation between the different portions of the disputed territory. Any union whatever of the German population of Schleswig and Holstein with the Crown of Denmark would not lead to permanent peace. Whatever was to be done should be done with the assent of the population, otherwise permanent peace would not be secured. It would not do for that House or any other authority, to deal with the people of the Duchies without ascertaining their wishes by means of a constitutional vote of the people, or of an assembly elected for the purpose. He hoped Holstpin would not receive any accession of Schleswig territory which might contain a hostile population; nor, on the other hand, would it add to the strength of Denmark if an unfriendly population were united to it.
 SIR JERVOISE JERVOISE , in reference to the charge for expenses connected: with the inspection of sheep to prevent the spread of disease, desired to call attention to the fifth Report of the medical; officer, ordered to be printed on the 14th of April. He believed it was the desire of the medical officer that the Report should be of great benefit to the country, and he had no doubt the effect of the appointment would be to correct some of the fallacies of the faculty; but, on the other hand, he thought the contents of the Report were enough to raise a panic in the country. Every fifth animal, and by consequence every fifth mutton chop, was stated to be diseased, while there was not only death in the pot but in the pail. The total loss by preventible diseases in cattle was estimated at £6,000,000 yearly. He wished to know who was to be held responsible for such statements, inasmuch as the medical officer who had despatched eminent veterinary surgeons on commissions of inquiry, not only through this country but abroad, disconnected himself in a note at the end of his Report from the opinions put forward by them. The Report stated that much of the epidemic disease was attributable to foreign origin; but if they referred to the Customs Report they would find that the medical officers of that Department stated that in the year when the small-pox broke out amongst the sheep in Wiltshire that not a single sheep entered into London suffering from that disease. On the Continent 2½ per cent covered the losses of the Cattle Insurance Offices, but in this country the Cattle Insurance Offices had to be wound up in consequence of the cattle dying so fast. He was anxious to know how the Inspector and his assistants were paid.
 MR. HIBBERT  wished to know whether the Government would, in consequence of the Vote come to that night, take any steps to make the whole of the National Gallery available for the purposes of the national pictures?
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  moved the adjournment, of the debate.
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, he would beg to ask the noble Lord whether he can state on what day the next sitting of the Conference will be held?
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD : Sir, I think that those who have listened to the speech of my right hon. Friend must feel satisfied that the noble Lord who has just sat down has entirely misrepresented him. There is a reticence and reserve based on the ground that premature disclosure would be injurious to the public service. There is also a reticence and reserve which it may be prudent for Ministers to observe when frankness may be injurious to the Government. It is not true that my right hon. Friend or the
 1288 1289
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, We have just had a magnificent display of virtuous indignation from the right hon Gentleman, who knows that he is attacking me in a position in which I cannot go into the defence that he challenges. He is like a man that attacks another who has his arms tied behind him. He knows that, because he has been in office. He knows that I am tongue-tied at the present moment, and that I cannot enter into an ample reply to the attacks which he has showered upon me. Sir, the right hon. Gentleman declares that he has a policy; he always moots this policy, and reproaches us, who, he thinks, have not a policy. Well, I challenge him to say what his policy is. Let him tell us fairly what he wants the Government to do; and let him ask this House to give a vote in support of Her Majesty's Government if they will adopt the policy which he thinks they ought to carry out. Let him propose that this House will support the Crown by all the means that may be necessary to give effect to the policy he contemplates. When he does that I shall say he is sincere in the course that he adopts in this House. We know what a negotiation is, especially a negotiation carried on with a great variety of Powers, having different views and different interests at stake; and the right hon. Gentleman ought to feel that to state from day to day what have been the points of difference, what have been the results of this interview or that Conference, must endanger the result which everybody who is anxious for the peace of Europe must desire to see attained. And therefore, in
 1287
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I wish, in the first place, to explain the change of opinion to which reference has been made. Undoubtedly, in 1860—I think it was—I adopted the decision of the late Government, that the National Gallery was to remain in Trafalgar Square, and that the Royal Academy was to have assigned to it a portion of the ground in Burlington House Gardens, close to Piccadilly, where it might erect a suitable edifice for its own purposes. Subsequent considerations, however, have induced me to alter that view, and I now think that, on the whole, the arrangement which we propose would be best—namely, that the National Gallery should be built on the ground to the rear of Burlington House, and that the Royal Academy should, under certain conditions, hare the use, not the possession, of the building in Trafalgar Square. Now, this is really not a party question. We ought all of us to have the same object at heart, and that is, first, to provide a proper receptacle for the collection of ancient pictures which we now possess, and next, to promote the display of modern art and the education of the artist, so that the public may know from year to year what the progress of art is in this country. With regard to the latter aim, I must say that it seems to me to have been entirely lost sight of in the discussion of this evening. And yet it lies at the root of the whole system of a National Gallery. For what purpose is a nation to have a collection of admirable pictures? They are intended not simply for the gratification of those who go to look at them, but to serve as a means of instruction in the formation of a great and distinguished school of national art. That is the main object of a National Gallery; and it should be combined with a Royal Academy which shall afford the means of instruction to those who had devoted themselves to this profession, and of exhibition to those whose pictures are deemed worthy of display. With regard to the National Gallery, we have more pictures than the present building can contain, and we want additional accommodation. The question is, how to obtain that accommodation at the least expense. The noble Lord (Lord J. Manners) proposes a scheme which would inevitably lead to great expense—it is, that we should enlarge the present building in Trafalgar Square. In order, however, to make such an enlargement as would suffice for the pictures we
 1330
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : No day has yet been fixed, for this reason; that the Plenipotentiaries are waiting for answers to Despatches which have been sent to their respective Courts. Some few days must elapse before those replies are received, and then the members of the Conference will be summoned to re-assemble.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : No such arrangement could be made. There is no reason to doubt that the Conference will meet again before the expiration of the armistice.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : As Sunday-is the day fixed, the armistice will, if it is not renewed, expire on that day.
 MR. PEEL , in reply, said, the details of the expenditure had not as yet been made up. There were certain outstanding claims which would have to be met, and it was necessary for the Government to keep a
 1353
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, If he has any objection to lay upon the table of the House a Return of the number of men absent from the United Kingdom belonging to the Royal Naval Reserve, specifying how many are gone Foreign, and of those how many were gone to the Federal and Confederate States of America.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he rose to move an Address for
 "Copy of any Correspondence between Her Majesty's Government and the Governments of France, Spain, and Portugal, from 1850 to 1863 inclusive, relating to the abrogation of the Discriminating Duties still levied upon British Vessels and their cargoes trading with those Countries." 1354 1355 1356 1357 1358 1359
 MR. PACKE  said, he entirely agreed with the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken. He had paid much attention to this subject, and had presented many petitions from various counties with reference to it, but he had never yet heard it shown that it would be any benefit to those who provided the returns now asked for. On that ground, and on that ground alone, he should be prepared to oppose the Motion. But when they considered the great injury which had been inflicted on the agriculture of this country—when they recollected the £6,000,000 taken from the agriculturists for the malt tax and that other £6,000,000 by the diseases of cattle—when they remembered the extreme low price of corn that had prevailed for some time past—it was far too much to call on them and compel them to say what was the result of the cultivation of their land. The hon. Gentleman first proposed to get the return through the Registrar's Office, but that would cost too much; he then proposed it should be got through the Ordnance Survey, and at the end of July the account should be taken of the cropping, and in September of the threshing. Now, the return obtained as proposed could not but be unreliable; for every one knew that whilst in some places land would scarcely produce five bushels, in others it would produce five quarters. No one could tell until he had threshed what the yield would be, and therefore £3,000 a year spent as proposed would be simply thrown away. Before they agreed to a system of this kind, they ought to have the consent of the farmers of the country, who certainly now objected to it, and naturally—for how would the shopkeepers of London or elsewhere like to have their places of business inspected and their takings inquired into? It was perfectly monstrous that such a principle should be applied to the farmers of this country. No benefit whatever could accrue from it to the corn-grower, and it was simply for the benefit of the corndealer.
 MR. PAGET  said, with reference to the objection that the proposed returns would
 1369
 LORD NAAS  said, that as Ireland had been referred to he wished to make a few observations. Now, with regard to the collection of the statistics of the acreage and stock very little difficulty had been found in Ireland in obtaining full and accurate information; but when it had been attempted to discover the quantity of produce which had been raised in each year, he did not think that their experience had been so satisfactory. He knew very well how it had been attempted to obtain information with regard to the quantity of produce. It was done in this way. Forms were sent down from the head office in Dublin, and were directed to the magistrates, to police-officers, and in some canes to the large fanners, who filled them up according to their own opinion; the returns were sent in, and the calculation was made from them. It was quite impossible that these returns could in any way be accurate, for he knew of his own experience that many persons in a district to whom these forms had been addressed had differed most materially in opinion; and it would be found that the very best estimates, even with regard to the quantity of produce coming from the same parish, would differ as much as 50 per cent. Therefore the House would be under an erroneous impression if they were led to believe that, as regarded the returns of produce under the system of agricultural statistics in Ireland, they had been in any way satisfactory. He believed it was perfectly impossible to obtain anything like an accurate account of the produce of the country. The only way that an approximation could be made was by collecting the statistics of the quan-
 1375 1376
 MR. HEYGATE  said, that whilst he heartily supported the truism contained in the proposition they were now called upon to support, he expressly refrained from giving his assent to the plan sketched out by the hon. Member. On the contrary, he believed that the sample system proposed would be a very inadequate and unsatisfactory way of obtaining for the country statistics of the progress of one of the greatest resources of our material wealth. He held in his hand two short documents which fully corroborated what had been said by the noble Lord the Member for Cockermouth (Lord Naas) as to the way in which practically they managed these things in Ireland. The two chief objections to agricultural statistics were stated to be, in the first place, the inquisitorial nature of the inquiry; and secondly, the fact that these statistics could not be made compulsory, and that, unless they were made compulsory, they would be useless. The evidence derived from Ireland showed that both the propositions were untrue. It appeared from the statement of the Registrar General of Ireland that these statistics never disclosed the names of the tenant-farmers. The acreage under different crops and the live stock alone were given. The tenant-
 1381 "When the figures are revised, I do not appre-hand that any important changes will be required in them, as the increasing experience of the enumerators, and the continued generous cooperation of the landed proprietors, the clergy of all denominations, the tenant farmers, and the public press, all tend from year to year to greater accuracy in these statistics."
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  rose to move that this House will resolve itself into a Committee to consider certain portions of the Act of Uniformity. As he understood that his Resolution was not likely to meet with opposition in the present stage, he would not detain the House by many remarks. He wished to remind the House of the origin of this Bill. It had not originated in any hostility to the Universities, or the Church as connected with the Universities, but with a certain number of gentlemen practically interested in the education of the University of Cambridge, who finding defects in the existing system, proposed what they considered a simple and unobjectionable remedy. The proposal was simply this—that whereas all Fellows of Colleges were required at present by the Act of Uniformity to make a declaration of their conformity to the Liturgy of the Church of England, that requirement should be repealed, and it should be left to the Colleges themselves to make such provision in that respect as might to them seem best in the interest of the Colleges and the University. The requirements of the Act of Uniformity were but
 1384
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, in reply, that he had no objection to lay on the table a Return of the Royal Naval Reserve, specifying how many of the men had gone Foreign. With regard to those men who might have joined the Federal or Confederate States services, the Admiralty were only aware that a few had done so, who, the moment the fact was ascertained, were discharged from the force. He should be happy to furnish the hon. Gentleman with a Return of the numbers of those men.
 LORD HOTHAM  said, that his silence might not be misconstrued, he desired to state that his opinion on this subject remained unchanged. He believed that without some more forcible measures than he thought Parliament would be willing to sanction, it would not be possible to obtain returns of sufficient accuracy to be of the value the hon. Gentleman seemed to expect; and unless the returns so collected and issued by the Government were correct,
 1370 1371 s s 1372
 MR. SELWYN  thought that, as a similar Bill was brought in last Session, it would only be consistent with courtesy and with usual practice to offer no opposition now to the introduction of the measure; but 1385
 MR. THOMPSON  said, he thought it desirable that agricultural statistics should be collected, but the acceptance of the Resolution of his hon. Friend would not bind the House to any specific plan. If the House agreed to this Resolution, and a Bill founded upon it were introduced, he begged to suggest a few alterations in the scheme indicated by his hon. Friend. Instead of having districts he was of opinion that the returns should be collected all over the country, and, for the sake of removing prejudice, he thought it would be well to confine them at first to the acreage — the area of the respective crops. These might be collected at a trifling expense, and without alarming the jealousy of the farmers. The number of acres being ascertained, we should be in possession of the largest factor in the multiplication, the one in which there was most room for error, and which no individual occupier could test or verify. The variation between a small and a large crop could be easily ascertained. Suppose, for instance, that ten bushels an acre were the difference between a minimum and a maximum yield, the farmer would know whether the crop was a good, a bad, or a medium one; and if he had any doubt on the subject, he could remove it by threshing out the produce of a given portion of an acre, and thus
 1374
 MR. DENT  said, he had never heard the accuracy of the statistical returns of agriculture collected in Ireland, or by the Highland Society in Scotland, impugned; and he could not understand why the proposed returns should be less correct. The noble Lord who had just sat down (Lord Hotham) deprecated speculation on the part of the farmer. Why was it so wrong for the farmer to speculate? Why, the main ground of the folly of their doing so was that they were entirely ignorant of what was likely to be the average of crops throughout the country. For himself, he would like to see agricultural statistics carried still further. He would like to see a return, not only of the corn crops, but of stock. With regard to this point, there existed a lamentable want of information. He cheerfully gave his support to the Motion.
 MR. HUBBARD  thought the House ought to see clearly the grounds on which the Motion was opposed. The first was, that the expense of collecting the statistics was too great; the second was, that farmers objected to intrusion on their land; the third, that the returns would be delusive. If the latter objection were true, of course it was fatal. As to the first objection, whether the expense was £5,000, £15.000, or £50,000, the immense importance of these statistics could not be measured by any expense. In one season England had spent £20,000,000 in corn alone; and in 1847 as large a sum as £100,000 might have been saved by priority of information on a single day's transaction, when we had to compete with other nations in the markets of Europe and America. The House should, therefore, dismiss the matter of expense from their minds. Then so far as the feelings of the farmers were concerned, he thought that a great deal of misapprehension prevailed on that point. With regard to the small farmers, if they imagined these returns would injure them they were under an entire misapprehension. No parties were more interested in getting sound information on this subject than the farmers themselves. And why? Because they
 1373
 MR. BASS  thought there must be some misapprehension on the part of the right hon. Gentleman and Members opposite as to the proposition of his hon. Friend. What he proposed was to take 1,500,000 acres in different parts of the country every year as a type of what the average agriculture of the whole country would be—so that in a series of years the variation in these types would substantially show the variation in the cultivation of the different crops in the country. When he heard the President of the Board of Trade acknowledge that it would be most desirable to have these statistics collected, he was in hopes that he was about, to propose that they should be taken not over one-fifteenth of the kingdom, but over the country at large. The right hon. Gentleman quoted figures to show that a discrepancy of 5 per cent existed between the returns as given by the typical districts and those extending over the whole of the country. What did that difference amount to? One million in 20,000,000. But what was the extent to which the country was at present in the dark for want of these statistics? Writers of eminence had declared that the general average produce of Great Britain and Ireland was only 6,500,000 qrs. of wheat. The very highest authority in the kingdom, Mr. M'Culloch, on the contrary, placed the quantity of wheat at upwards of 13,000,000 qrs. Surely we ought not to be so far in the dark—to the extent of the difference between 6,500,000 qrs. and 13,000,000 qrs. The late Sir George Lewis, a few years ago, invited general co-operation in ascertaining the number of persons that could be fed in this country, and surely
 1380
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  admitted that that would be so as between the typical districts; but how could they jump to the conclusion that that would be a fair comparison for the whole country? [Mr. CAIRD: It must be, of course.] We had no knowledge at present, beyond a mere estimate, either of the acreage under cultivation in the whole kingdom, nor of the quality of the soil in various parts of the country; therefore, he thought that it was going a great way to assume that the proportion between the typical districts in two successive years would hold good for the whole country. In Ireland we had estimates of the extent of land under cultivation similar to that which his hon. Friend had proposed for England; but an examination of the whole of Ireland showed that those estimates were entirely erroneous. Probably the estimate of 15,000,000 acres under cultivation for England was wrong. In Ireland the estimate of the land under barley was greater by one-fourth than the largest quantity actually sown, and too much land by about one-fourth was supposed to have been cultivated with potatoes. The fact was that the plan of his hon. Friend had not been long enough before the House. He would not go the length of condemning it; on the contrary, he guarded himself from the assertion that it might not prove hereafter to have great merits; but before it was adopted in whole or in part it was absolutely necessary to see that the calculations rested upon accurate data. Now, in Scotland, he found that in the typical counties the increase from 1855 to 1856 in the acreage under wheat was at the rate of 34 per cent; whereas over the whole of Scotland the increase was at the rate of nearly 37 per cent. In Ireland in the same years the increase in the typical counties was 14 per cent, while over the whole country it was nearly 19 per cent. Between 1856 and 1857 the increase in the acreage under wheat was 3½ per cent in
 1378 "Before any further steps are taken, the proposed system should be submitted to the judgment of competent persons. If it should be approved and Government adopt it, then we should require two years from the present time to complete the plans of the typical districts in England; but this would compel us to abandon the surveys of the counties now in progress, and would give rise to discontent in those counties; and if precedence is given to the agricultural districts, then we shall also have complaints from the mineral and manufacturing districts." 1379
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that he could not regard this as a mere abstract Resolution. If it were passed, his hon. Friend (Mr. Caird) would, he imagined, understand it as an encouragement, if not an approval of his plan.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that surely the House had got past the stage of abstract Resolutions upon this subject. Bills for the collection of agricultural statistics had been more than once introduced. In 1846 he himself brought in a Bill for that purpose; and another Bill was subsequently introduced, and read a second time. There was no difference of opinion as to the importance of obtaining accurate statistical returns of the acreage under cultivation for particular crops, produce, and stock, not only to the agricultural interest, but to the mercantile interests of the country. The whole difficulty consisted in this—how to do it. His hon. Friend had submitted a new plan. He proposed to take certain typical districts in England and Wales, and he assumed that these typical districts were a fair sample of the whole country. He thought he could infer, therefore, from the statistics of the typical districts what was the acreage under cultivation, and what was the produce of the whole kingdom, if not with absolute accuracy at any rate sufficiently near for practical purposes. Now, unfortunately, this plan of his hon. Friend proceeded upon one important assumption — that they knew the extent of the cultivated land in Great Britain, and knew something of the character of the cultivation. They must know something of the whole in order to be able to select their sample or type; and unless they knew the character of the whole how could they say that their 1,500,000 acres were to be taken as a type or fixed part of the whole? He confessed he had very great doubts upon the point. Now they did know that in Ireland when the Ordnance Survey and constabulary were made use of to ascertain the cultivation of particular crops, it was found that the results of their inquiries were very different from the previous estimates which had been published
 1377
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, there was no objection to the Motion if his hon. Friend would insert after Copies "or Extracts." The documents would be given as fully as possible to make them useful, but there was much that did not bear upon the Motion. He quite agreed with the general sentiment which his hon. Friend had expressed—namely, that freedom of navigation must be a great benefit
 1360 1361
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, that no doubt this discussion would reach the fo-
 1362
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he believed there was scarcely any difference of opinion upon the principle involved in the proposition of his hon. Friend. The Government were fully convinced of the advantages of agricultural statistics in the United Kingdom, and agreed that they ought to be collected and published at the earliest period. But the noble Lord (Lord Haas) had shown that these statistics would be of ' very little value if they did not extend over the whole country. His hon. Friend (Mr. Caird) had suggested various plans for ob-
 1382
 MR. CAIRD , in reply, said, there was a gradual progress of opinion among the farmers in favour of agricultural statistics, and he believed they would work more cordially with a voluntary system than under an Act of Parliament. Many modes of obtaining agricultural statistics had been proposed, and he should himself very much prefer a complete system. He thought an expenditure of £15,000 a mere  bagatelle 1383
 MR. CAIRD  said, that it was of no importance that there should be a definite proportion between the typical portion and the whole. It would remain the same type year after year, and an intelligible result would be obtained by comparing the results of one year with those of another.
 MR. CAIRD  said, that he did not ask for the adoption of his plan.
 MR. CAIRD , in rising to move a Resolution—
 "That, in the opinion of this House, the collection and early publication of the Agricultural Statistics of Great Britain would be advantageous to the public interest," 1363 1364 1365 1366 1367
 MR. CAIRD  said, that the officers were to obtain an estimate of the average yield of the corn threshed.
 MR. CAIRD : It could be nothing else.
 SIR JOSEPH PAXTON  seconded the Motion.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether it is intended to surrender to the Exchequer the £93,163 remaining in the Paymaster General's hands out of the Votes of Credit for China?
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  said, that if their agricultural statistics were to cost no more than £3,000, and were to be as advantageous as the hon. Gentleman had described, he could perfectly well understand that the House might feel disposed to agree to this Resolution; but if these returns were to be fallacious and inaccurate, then he could not understand what possible use such returns could be to the country. He would take the hon. Gentleman's last plan—he proposed to take certain counties from certain parts of England; but inasmuch as it was well known that even in adjoining counties there was frequently very great difference in the soil, one being poor and the other rich, these selected districts could not possibly be said to represent the whole agricultural districts of England. They knew how crops varied in different, though adjoining, counties; therefore, on that ground alone, it would be most unsatisfactory to select certain parts. This was not, however, the main point. The hon. Gentleman said this was not an inquisitorial plan, and yet he proposed that the most inquisitorial returns should be collected in September—that an officer should go round to each grower, and ascertain the amount of corn threshed.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT : Then it was of no use whatever. His hon. Friend said the statistics would be to the advantage of the public; but he entirely overlooked the feelings of the people on whose ground they had to go to get these returns. The farmers were entirely adverse to statistical returns of this nature. They might be wrong, and the returns might not do them the harm they feared they would; they, however, were of opinion these statistics would do them no good; and, therefore,
 1368
 COLONEL BARTTELOT : If it was to be an estimate what was the use of it?
 MR. J. A. SMITH  said, that this was a question vitally affecting the whole of the trading interests of London and not merely the wharfingers; and the question was, whether restrictions should be placed upon the lighters obtaining goods from ships discharging their cargoes. A Committee-room was not the proper place for discussing this subject. The wharfingers had expressed their desire to afford every assistance, and to acquiesce in any arrangements approved or sanctioned by the Board of Trade.
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  rose to move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months. The hon. Member for Carlisle (Mr. Lawson) had stated that if the measure were supported by those Gentlemen who specially represented the working classes, it might possibly pass into law. Now, no Member of the House represented the working classes more directly than he (Captain Jervis) did. There was only one person among his constituents who was not a working man, and three-fourths of them were men who worked with their hands as well as their heads. He had, therefore, a peculiar right to speak in the name of the working classes, and on their behalf he felt bound to oppose the present measure. He had also to observe that he had, much against his will, spent five months in the Maine Liquor Law States of America, and that his experience there convinced him of the utter futility of such an enactment. It was, besides, opposed to our whole constitutional system that any number of people who chose to drink nothing but water should compel other men, however limited in number, to follow their example. And how could that Bill be carried into effect with our parochial divisions? He saw in the State of Vermont—one of the States in which the sale of liquor was prohibited — persons who could not obtain drink in one district cross over a bridge into another district, where they obtained as much as they could pay for; and in the same way they would find that, under the present Bill, the same process would be carried on with still greater facility, for the distinction would be between parishes only instead of States.
 1400 1401 Pickwick s
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, he should not have troubled the House on this occasion if it were not for the fact that for many years he had been in the habit of presenting petitions in favour of Bills of this nature and then of voting against them. He thought it was due to those who had intrusted him with petitions to state why he could not possibly agree with the prayers which they contained. The practice of
 1414
 MR. HENLEY  said, he had no intention of saying anything on this question, but that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had taken upon himself to state the principles upon which magistrates were in the habit of acting in the granting of licences. Now he protested against any such statement as that the magistrates decided by reference to property. He (Mr. Henley) had never heard of such a principle as the hon. Gentleman had stated entering even as an element into the ques-
 1421
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  expressed his regret that any course should be taken which might result in giving a limited effect to the Bill as now proposed. The question is a very important one, and can only be properly dealt with by a general Bill. The question ought not to be considered as affecting one class over another, but entirely with reference to the general interests of Scotland in the matter. The object of the Bill was to remedy what was unquestionably a defect in the Valuation Act of 1854. It was not a defect which was now newly discovered, because it was a defect of which they were perfectly conscious when the Bill of 1854 passed into law. The question arose in the Select Committee before which that Bill came—whether it was desirable, in the first place, and, if so, whether it was possible to make the valuation roll so that it would show the gross and also the rateable value? Two modes were proposed for accomplishing that object. The first was, that all assessments should be made on the gross value, and that the whole system of deduction should be founded on the gross value. The Committee did not see their way to that course, and it was resisted by a considerable majority of the representatives of Scotland. For himself he thought there would have been no practical injustice if that course had been taken, as the system of deductions was complex, cumbrous, and inconvenient. Another course was then suggested—namely, to insert in the Act a schedule of deductions to provide for certain classes of property a certain percentage of deductions. A great deal of discussion took place on that proposition, but in the end that was also found impracticable, for the reason that the same class of assessments in different parts of the country were not on the same footing as regarded
 1437
 COLONEL DOUGLAS PENNANT  said, he was in no way connected with the railway interest in Scotland, and had no wish to enter into any details with regard to the machinery of this Bill. He merely rose for the purpose of confirming the opinion expressed by the noble Lord the Member for North Derbyshire (Lord George Cavendish) with regard to the views the Committee took in reference to the new system which of late years had been adopted, and which was becoming every year more and more general in Scotland, of throwing all the roads and highways upon the counties of Scotland for assessment at their full gross value. In the assessments for the poor rates, certain deductions were made, and among those deductions came the sums paid by railways for repairs and maintenance of the permanent way, but in assessing for other purposes no such deduction was allowed. That question came under the consideration of the Committee on Scotch Road Bills—of which he was for one or two years chairman, and of which the noble Lord opposite was chairman this year—and it was admitted that great injustice would be done to the Railway Companies if they were compelled to pay on the gross rental, for which they were entered on the valuation roll. The Railway Companies wished the Committee to fix a specific value for each railway included in the Bill; but the Committee decided that they would not enter into the question in that partial way, and be the means of introducing a most anomalous system of rating, which might vary in each case according to the opinion of the Committee before which it might be brought. But on all occasions the Committee felt that some public measure ought to be passed for the purpose of placing the railways upon some clearly defined footing. The Committee inquired from the railway assessor whether any deductions were made from the gross value of railway property for the purpose of repairs, and he stated that no deduction was made for maintaining or repairing the permanent way. That alone was, in his
 1431
 LORD ELCHO  said, that no one who knew the hon. Member for Greenock (Mr. Dunlop) would suppose that he was actuated by any desire other than that of promoting the public interest; but, strange to say, this Bill, which is brought forward to remedy a public grievance, and which one would think ought to be approved of by all the interests concerned, was approved of, so far as he (Lord Elcho) was aware, by no interest in Scotland except one. The object of the Bill was to place a burden which is now borne by all classes upon the shoulders of one. That was a proposal which he hoped the House would not readily sanction. Any doubt that might have been entertained as to the nature and character of the Bill must have been removed by the speeches of the noble Lord the Member for North Derbyshire, and his hon. and gallant Friend opposite (Colonel D. Pennant), both of whom spoke as chairmen of Road Committees, and both of whom were in favour of this Bill The Railway Companies, who had a common interest and a common purse, fought the question four days before the Committee; but the Committee thought that the question was one for general legislation, and could not be dealt with as a private Bill. Failing there, his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Ayrshire, who he believed was one of their railway magnates, attempted to introduce a clause when the Bill was before the House. That attempt was also defeated. Since then the matter had been brought before a Committee upstairs; and as that also failed, the promoters of the Bill sought to obtain their object by a general measure. He hardly thought that the attention of this House had been sufficiently drawn to a matter
 1433 "The favour of your attendance is earnestly requested on the occasion of the second reading of this Bill to-morrow." 1434
 LORD GEORGE CAVENDISH  said, that having been chairman of the Committee before whom several of the Scotch Road Bills came for consideration, and also a member of the Committee before whom some Bills of a similar character came last year, he was anxious to say a few words with regard to the special Report which had been made by the Committee this year. The main difficulty in dealing with Bilk of this description had arisen when they came to the consideration of the burdens imposed upon the country. We invariably found that under the operation of the Scotch Valuation Act very unequal rates were imposed upon different descriptions
 1427
 MR. DUNLOP  said, that in proposing the second reading of this Bill, he felt it necessary to preface his observations by a brief explanation of the aim and purport of this Bill, as he understood that it was intended to raise some objection to it. It had been said that it was an exceptional measure, and that it had been brought forward in the interest of the Railway Companies. He did not mean to assert that the railway interest would not be benefited by it, because he believed that that interest suffered more from the injustice of the present system than any other; but he begged to
 1424 1425 1426
 MR. LAYARD  asked the hon. Baronet the Member for Finsbury (Sir Morton Peto) if the amalgamated companies would leave the question to the Board of Trade.
 MR. LAYARD  said, the House was always very watchful of any Bill that was calculated to create a monopoly. Now, he ventured to say that no private Bill could have a greater tendency to create a monopoly than the Bill before the House. The Dock Companies were attempting to impose certain difficulties upon the river craft which might have the effect of excluding this craft from the amalgamated docks altogether. Ultimately the whole river side might be included in one great dock. There were so many restrictions imposed in the way of permits and other conditions that they virtually amounted to such difficulties as tended to exclude altogether the craft not immediately belonging to the docks. This question was raised in 1855, and he held in his hand a petition presented on the subject which proved that the same identical points were involved in it as they were now discussing. Unless the promoters of the Bill consented to withdraw the obnoxious clauses, be hoped the House would reject the Bill.
 MR. BUXTON  said, he desired to say a few words with regard to the passages that had been quoted by the hon. Member for Carlisle from an article written by him (Mr. Buxton) many years ago, and of which, he confessed, he now felt somewhat ashamed. It might be thought strange that any man in his position should have written at all upon a question as to how drunkenness might be diminished. On the contrary, no one could have stronger motives for examining what could be done to make that traffic harmless than those who were personally connected with it. In writing that paper he had endeavoured to consider the subject as impartially as if he had not been interested in the matter himself; but certainly if he could have foreseen that the authorship of it would have been discovered, he should have written with somewhat more regard to what artists would call "keeping." At that time, however, the Maine Law seemed to be a brilliant success in doing away with pauperism and crime, and he could not, therefore, exclude the consideration whether it could be adopted in any modified form in this country. Since that time experience had shown—what common sense might have suggested—that such violent compulsion, though it might gain its end for a time, would at last prove a failure; and he was persuaded that if this Bill became law it would produce unbounded irritation and inconvenience. The hon. Gentleman's friends had not treated him (Mr. Buxton) quite fairly about that review. They had asked him to allow it to be republished; but on looking it over he had found it was so hasty and crude that he had absolutely declined. In spite of that the passages he most regretted had been republished without the context which modified them. He would not enter into the general question beyond assuring his hon. Friend of the respect he
 1419
 MAJOR CUMMING BRUCE  said, he wished to make a few remarks in consequence of what had fallen from his hon. Friend opposite, that railways were by the present operation of the law subject to great injustice on account of the opposition made to them, and that no allowance was made for repairs, for maintenance, and for the cost of keeping them in a condition to command the rate. Now, evidence had been given on this very point before Committees of the House of Lords and of the House of Commons in a Bill relating to tolls; and one very competent witness stated not only that railways did not pay 40 per cent higher than other lands and heritages, in consequence of their being rated at the full valuation, but he said he knew the fact to be exactly the reverse—that they got many deductions that other land and heritages did not get—that in fact they got a deduction of 100 per cent after paying every possible expense. Therefore his hon. Friend and the noble Lord opposite were misinformed when they said that railways receive no deduction, but were assessed on the full amount of their property. He objected to this Bill on various grounds. One of them had been alluded to by the noble Lord. This was a public Bill. It is one of these measures which the Lord Advocate prides himself upon, he having passed one which has been useful, and has given satisfaction to Scotland. It has been looked upon in Scotland as the only fitting one by which you can arrive at a fair valuation. The Bill proposes to introduce elements of uncertainty between the assessor and various classes of persons affected by it. In his opinion the Bill would introduce great confusion in the Valuation Act without producing any benefit whatever. If any Bill was necessary, it ought to be introduced by the Government after due deliberation, and not be left to any private Member. Considering the Bill most inexpedient and unjust, he should certainly give his vote against it.
 MR. PEASE  said, that after the debates that had taken place upon that subject, and the petitions which had been presented in favour of a change in the law, he had hoped that the Government would have been prepared to introduce some measure which would show that they were ready to co-operate in the efforts of the friends of temperance. He entirely differed from the statement of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield that this was a poor man's question. For his part, he believed that thousands and tens of thousands of the poorer classes were anxious for the passing of a measure which would contribute to diminish drunkenness, and the many evils of which it was productive.
 MR. MACKIE  said, he had hoped that the hon. Member for Greenock (Mr. Dunlop) would have conceived himself bound by the unmistakable opinions of the Scotch Members, and would have withdrawn this Bill. The Bill had been placed in the hands of the Scotch Members on the very day when they left town to attend their county meetings, and the consequence was that the county meetings knew nothing about it. It was not too much to hope that a Bill introduced under such circumstances should be withdrawn, at any rate until next Session. With regard to the Bill itself, the statement of the hon. Member for Greenock was so clear that he had nothing to add or take from it. The Bill would change the whole system of local rating and assessments in Scotland. At present, they pay upon the gross value in all cases, except with regard to those rates which were imposed under the Poor Law Acts, and even with regard to the Poor Law Act there were many parishes in which the rating was still upon the gross valuation, such rating having been in vogue before the passing of the Poor Law Act in 1845, and having been continued since that period with the approbation of the Board of Supervision in Edinburgh. If the hon. Member was so anxious to obtain uniformity, how much easier it would have been for him
 1428
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, I think my hon. Friend the Member for Carlisle (Mr. Lawson) has at least no reason to complain of the manner in which the House has listened to the statement which he has made on behalf of his clients throughout the country. The House has listened to his speech in a manner which proves that this is a question which is getting more hold of the mind of the country than it had some time ago, and that it cannot be treated as the vision of a few wild enthusiasts. Everybody will agree that the evil which the hon. Member has to some extent explained is a very grievous one in almost every part of the country; and more—I believe every Member will say that if any measures could be taken that did not violate any of the recognized principles on which this House acts, to help those who are making great exertions to change the people of this country from their past and, I fear, their present condition into a happier state, such measures ought to be sanctioned. Now, as to the remedy, which is the real question before us. I believe there are only two modes of remedy; the first of which is the improvement and instruction of the people — and the second, the special legislation of this House. Now, I am one of those who look rather to the improvement and education of the people, for a permanent remedy — and I think that it is quite conclusive that that must be the sheet anchor, as it were, of this question. There are hon. Members of this House older than I am, but I am old enough to remember when among those classes with which we are more familiar than with the working people, drunkenness was ten or twenty times more common than it is at present. I have been in this House twenty years, and during that time I have often partaken of the hospitality of various Members of the House, and I must confess that during the whole of those twenty years I have no recollection of having seen one single person at any gentleman's table who has been in the condition which would be at all fairly described by saying that he was drunk. And I may say more—that I do not recollect more than two or three occasions during
 1403 1404 1405 1406 1407 1408
 MR. BRIGHT : What I said was that I thought it would be a great injustice
 1412
 MR. HUBBARD  said, it was of the utmost importance to the trade of London
 1390
 MR. LOCKE  said, that as he understood this matter was to be referred to the President of the Board of Trade, he was willing to withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. LOCKE  rose to move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months. The Directors of the Docks were attempting by a sidewind to interfere with privileges which had always existed in the port of London, by the introduction of certain words into one clause, and by the framing of another clause, which appeared in the schedule. They were endeavouring to infringe upon a law which had always prevailed, that the merchants of London should have free ingress and egress to the docks by means of lighters. It was an attempt to create a monopoly, and its effect would be to injure much waterside property. A similar attempt had been made in 1855 by dock directors to gain an advantage over wharfingers; but the attempt was then made directly, while now it was made indirectly. That course was then opposed most strongly by the late Mr. Hume, by the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley), and also by the right hon. Member for Oxford (Mr. Cardwell), who was at that time President of the Board of Trade, and the proposal was rejected by no less than ten to one. The clauses to which he objected were Clause 129, and one which appeared in the schedule. The dock Directors had no right to claim privileges which no one else possessed. He understood that representations had been made to the Board of Trade, and that it was suggested by that Department that alterations should be
 1387
 MR. ROEBUCK : That is as I understood the hon. Member. But what will be the consequence; and I ask the hon. Gentleman to listen to me whilst I endeavour to reason as quietly and as I calmly can upon that proposition. The municipal body is an elective body, and such a proceeding would put into their hands a certain power which would very much interest large classes by whom they are elected; and, as the licensing would be annual, you would have constant debates and disputes going on with reference to a matter which very much interests a large body of the inhabitants. Under the present system the power is lodged in the hands of gentlemen who are nominated by the Crown. They are magistrates for life unless something be done to the contrary; and by the very fact of holding office for life, while at the same time they are subject to the moral influence of people round them, are very much more likely to perform their duties in a manner free from that capricious action of which the hon. Member for Birmingham complains. Therefore, as between the municipal bodies and the magistrates, I am for continuing the power in the hands of the magistrates as at present. There is one argument which deserves, and which I know will receive the attention of hon. Gentlemen opposite; but I cannot sit down without one word of warning, especially addressed to hon. Members such as the hon. Member for Carlisle. The public, as we have seen, are very likely to be misled—they are very likely to follow a cry, and they are likely to entertain a crochet; and I have always found that men who entertained a crochet are amongst the most intolerant of mankind. They will not hear of dissent — men who differ from them are not allowed simply to obey the dictates of their own reason, and come before them as men exercising their own reason, but they must be called, as they have been called, because they oppose this measure—drunkards; they are called immoral. I do not say by the hon. Member for Carlisle, for I cannot imagine he would be so far forgetful of good taste, though he might call me "a canting hypocrite."
 MR. ROEBUCK : Sir, I wish to state my opinions of the hon. Gentleman's Bill very shortly. I have now been many years in Parliament, and during the whole course of my experience I never heard submitted to the consideration of the House a more mischievous measure. I do not mince the matter at all. I will
 1409 1410 1411
 MR. ROEBUCK : Neither do I make any personal application — I merely say what another has said, and that the House will perceive makes all the difference. Such persons call their opponents "drunkards," but that epithet does not apply to the hon. Gentleman. Some men cull them "liars"—that expression does not apply to the hon. Gentleman. I entreat those hon. Gentlemen to learn to bear opposition, and not to think all who differ from them rogues, drunkards, and liars.
 MR. HUMBERSTON  said, that as six ratepayers were at present entitled to recommend a beerhouse-keeper for a licence, in spite of the opposition of the owner of perhaps three-fourths of the property in the parish, why should not the signatures of six other ratepayers against the licence be equally efficacious to prevent the house from being opened? In these travelling days it must be remembered the inhabitants of a town would not only legislate for themselves, but also for those travellers who might visit their town.
 MR. WYKEHAM MARTIN  said, he should oppose the Bill, believing it would be productive of worse evils than those that now existed. In the year 1736 an Act was passed to limit the sale of spirits, and it had been found to work very injuriously. There had been no fewer than 12,000 convictions under the Act, and it finally became—to use the words of a noble Lord in another place with respect to it—so odious and contemptible, that policy as well as humanity induced the Commissioners of Excise to mitigate the penalties imposed on those who had been convicted. If the present Bill passed, the probability was that it would create greater mischief than those against which it was levelled. If the decision in regard to the permission to open public-houses was left to the ratepayers in rural parishes, it would produce class legislation of the worst possible kind, because the great majority of cottages were not rated to the poor rates. The persons who would decide the question would be those who had the means of supplying themselves with wine and beer in quantities, and who had no occasion to resort to the public-house. He looked upon the Bill as being a piece of legislation of the worst possible kind. In civilized society, and in the complicated state of our social relations, an immense amount of capital could not be destroyed without the infliction of great and unnecessary hardship. He could not therefore vote for the second reading of the Bill.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, it was quite true that deputations from the Dock Companies and wharfingers had waited last year upon the Board of Trade, and he had heard both sides of the question. The wharfingers did not make any objection to the amalgamation itself, or to what might be termed the general principle of the
 1389
 MR. SCULLY  said, he wished it to be understood that the measure was to
 1422
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he wished to explain why, while sympathizing with the object, he could not vote for the second reading of the Bill of his hon. Friend. He agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Sheffield, that this House would be departing from its functions as a legislative assembly if it were to allow a majority to prevent the use of a thing which, though often beneficial, was in some cases liable to abuse. He could not, however, adopt the argument that this was a Bill directed against the poor rather than the rich, because in the district from which he carne he knew that the poorer classes were more in favour of the Bill than any other class. The House ought, therefore, to take that feeling into account and consider from what it had arisen. Here was u Bill which appeared on the face of it a class Bill, and yet they found large bodies of the working men strongly in its favour. There must be some great wrong at work to produce such a result. The fact was, the working classes were almost in despair of that House or that Government tackling the question; and it was because it had been so often brought under the consideration of the Government, and acknowledged by the Government and the House to demand immediate attention, and yet nothing had been done, that the working men were not disinclined to support such an extreme measure. He had hoped that the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary would have admitted that it was the duty of the Government to deal
 1420
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that as every hon. Member who had addressed the House after the hon. Member for Carlisle had spoken against the Bill, he
 1415 1416 1417 Will 1418
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he wished to say a few words with reference to the heavy charge which had been brought against him. The noble Lord
 1435 1436
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, the Directors of the Docks were perfectly willing to leave the arrangement of these clauses to the Board of Trade, and an offer to that effect had been made by the Company to which he belonged.
 SIR MORTON PETO  asked the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade whether in 1863 the deputation which then waited upon him upon this subject did not offer to leave the whole question to the decision of the Board of Trade? He submitted that there was no sufficient ground for opposition to the measure. The restrictions complained of were mere matters of police regulation, intended to secure the safety of the goods brought into the docks.
 MR. CAVE  submitted that the hon. Member for Southwark had made a speech which ought to have been made by counsel in Committee, and he thought no cause had been shown for refusing a second reading to a Bill which had passed a Committee of the House of Lords, without any evidence being offered against the preamble; and one clause only of which was opposed by a certain portion of a certain interest. If there were any just cause of complaint, opportunity would be given to state it before a Committee of that House. The hon. Member talked of monopoly, but when these Docks were amalgamated they would only afford accommodation for one-fifth of the shipping of the port of London. The clause which was brought in in 1855 was for the purpose of putting a certain tax upon lighters. That, however, was objected to on the ground that such a tax was against the principle of the Dock Acts, and now the hon. Member asked them to throw out the Bill on account of a totally different clause, brought in for a totally different purpose. No doubt the docks might be considered a part of the port of London for certain purposes—but they were very different from the other part of the port of London, inasmuch as there were very peculiar restrictions put upon them. Their walls must be built a certain height, and other precautionary measures were required to secure the safety of the goods brought into them. In the Committee of which he and the Member for Southwark were Members, evidence had been given of complaints to the Government of depredations committed in the port of London, and it was stated the wharfingers and dockowners had not exercised that surveillance which they ought to have done for the preservation of the property confided to them. Well, that was precisely what they were trying to do by the present Bill. The hon. Member's clients had on a former occasion set themselves against improvements in the trade of the port of London. The President of the Board of Trade, in the year before
 1388
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, it was not because he did not feel the force of the arguments used by his hon. Friend the Member for Greenock (Mr. Dunlop) with regard to the general principle of allowing in Scotland the same deductions which were allowed in England, that he could not consent to vote for the second reading of the Bill. The whole question was, whether you can enforce the deductions in the manner proposed by the Bill, or without introducing a much more extensive principle involved in the measure. The hon. Member said that he was quite ready to go into a Select Committee, and consider the question of the principle of the rates. But there was another principle which he must also consider, which laid at the root of the question—namely, by what public body was the question to be determined. It was proposed by the Bill that the valuation should be fixed by the officers for the county—the same officer who assessed for the income tax. To such a proposal he entirely objected. From the way in which his hon. Friend proposed that this officer should determine what in every individual property was the deduction to be made, the result would be that the assessor would make a separate valuation, and every individual assessed would appeal in the autumn to the Committee appointed by the Commissioners of Supply for the purpose of hearing appeals. The consequence would be that that body would be overwhelmed with work, and the appeals would be so numerous that it would be impracticable to carry out a measure of that sort. It was upon this ground of practical difficulty that it was found impossible to do anything with the question when it came before the House some years ago. His hon. Friend had referred to the case of England: but in England this duty was not done by an assessor but by the Boards of Guardians. He was perfectly ready to consider whether they should not form boards for the purpose of carrying out this proposal, but that was not a question that could be determined by affirming the principle laid down in the Bill. Then the time at which the Bill was brought forward was exceedingly inconvenient; for in many cases the rates had already been levied on the max-
 1432
 MR. LAWSON  said, that in moving the second reading of the Bill, he desired to make a few observations on a subject which he was aware was not popular in that House, and the discussion of which might not be altogether convenient to some hon. Members. He thought, however, he should be able to show good reasons for the course he was about to take. It would be in the recollection of the House that last Session a promise was made, not in the House but out of doors, by the Secretary of State for the Home Department, that he would introduce a Bill for an alteration and reformation of the licensing system. At the beginning of the last Session he asked the right hon. Gentleman whether he intended to bring in the Bill; and the answer was evasive. In the middle of the Session, however, the right hon. Gentleman stated distinctly that he had abandoned his intention of bringing forward any measure during that Session. On the strength of this he (Mr. Lawson) ventured towards the conclusion of the Session to move a Resolution, not committing the House to any specific mode of action, but simply stating that the existing system was unsatisfactory, and required amendment. He thought this Resolution would have met with larger support than he found that it did receive—it was not brought forward with any intention hostile to Her Majesty's Government — but the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in the absence — owing to indisposition—of the Home Secretary, said he should not support the Resolution, be-
 1391 1392 "Here will come in for useful purposes that division list which we published three weeks ago. In the event of a general election it will be the duty of every licensed victualler when applied to for his vote to extract a pledge from the candidate with regard to legislation on licensed victuallers' matters. This pledge will be readily given when required by such a body at such a time." 1393 1394 1395 "I do not believe that since the world began there was ever a more respectable, or more responsible, or better conducted class of men than the licensed victuallers." "I can scarcely recollect a single instance of having formed an acquaintance with a licensed victualler which I had ever occasion to regret." 1396 Quarterly Review Edinburgh Review The Times "No way so rapid to increase the wealth of nations and the morality of society, as the utter annihilation of the manufacture of ardent spirits, constituting as they do an infinite waste and an unmixed evil." The Daily Telegraph The Times 1397 1398 1399
 MR. LAWSON : I did not as from myself use any such expression.
 MR. LAWSON , in reply, said, that he rose chiefly for the purpose of apologizing to the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Roebuck) for having used too strong an expression in the course of his speech. He was very sorry for having used it. It rose from a momentary feeling of indignation at the language which had fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman himself the other night in the course of a debate relating to a similar measure. With regard to the
 1423
 LORD STANLEY : Sir, I do not intend to detain the Committee, nor do I think it necessary to add anything to what has been said by the noble Lord the First Minister; but upon an occasion of this kind it did not seem to us fitting that entire silence should be observed on this side of the House; and I say for myself, and I know I may say it for those who sit near me, that we cordially and entirely concur in the estimate which the noble Lord has formed and expressed of the public character and services of the Earl of Elgin. When services like his have been rendered, and rendered not to a party but to the State, it is right that they should be recognized by all parties; and I am sure that the Vote which the noble Lord has proposed will meet with no objection or no unfriendly reception from any party in this House.
 COLONEL GILPIN  said, this Bill had been committed and re-committed, amended and re-amended, but it had undergone no discussion in that House; and, so far as he could discover, it had found no favour with the country. When the Chancellor of the Exchequer introduced the Bill he laid considerable stress upon the clause that proposed to exonerate the taxpayers from responsibility in case of defaulting collectors. Nothing was more just in principle than that when once the tax had been paid to an authorized officer, the taxpayer should not be called upon to pay it over again; but it was not necessary to bring in a Bill for that object, and at the same time make the payment of the tax more odious. The object which the Bill professed to have in view might be attained by taking proper security from the collectors. The right hon. Gentleman on one occasion said that the Bill was a reply to the local commissioners; but he remembered that some time ago a project of the same kind was referred to the commissioners with whom he was in the habit of acting. Their opinion was unanimously against the proposal, and he considered they were right in coming to that conclusion. The only way for hon. Members to test the practical effect of a Bill of the kind was to refer to their own districts, and see how it would work there. In a report from the Inland Revenue Office to the Treasury it was alleged that a saving of £50,000 a year might be expected under the Bill; but during the thirty years which he had been connected with one of the largest districts in the county of Bedford, though he had never known a single instance of a defaulting collector appointed by the local commissioners, he could not say the same of officers appointed by the Government. The district contained twenty-nine parishes, which hitherto had been assessed by two persons in each parish, making fifty-eight in all. He had gone narrowly into a calculation of all the charges that, on the lowest estimate, would be entailed under the new system introduced by the Bill, and found that the collection in the twenty-nine parishes would cost £570. In the year 1861, when the income tax stood at 9 d s 1465
 MR. PACKE  said, that if there were no other reason for opposing the Bill, he should oppose it on the ground that it would be a great evil to have different modes of collection in various parts of the country. The proposed alteration in the collection of Government taxes was most unpopular in his part of the country. Instead of collection by assessors in the various parishes, the Bill proposed that persons should collect these taxes in the various market towns. Some of the payments under the land tax did not exceed 2 d d
 MR. HENLEY  said, the right hon. Gentleman had truly stated that the present state of the law on the subject under discussion was not very satisfactory. There were great difficulties attending it, and he was afraid that, make what changes they might, the tax collector, whether he came in the shape of a Government officer or a local collector, would always be a most unpleasant visitor. People would always say that he came at the wrong time, and asked for the money in the wrong way. The right hon. Gentleman had completely misunderstood, and, misunderstanding, had in a great degree misrepresented the objection of the hon. Member for Northamptonshire and the hon. Baronet on the same bench. Because to what did the right hon. Gentleman liken this measure? He said there could be no objection to the permissive character of the Bill, because the ratepayers had an option whether they would or would not levy church rates. What possible analogy could there be between ratepayers levying a church rate and a dozen or half-dozen commissioners not elected by the ratepayers setting themselves against—what? Against the Queen's Government. Because that was what it would amount to. They were to do nothing unless the Queen, through her Revenue department, expressed an opinion that a particular mode of collecting the taxes was desirable in a particular county. It was not a fair thing to put those gentlemen in a position antagonistic to the Queen's Government in a matter of this kind. The taxpayers had no voice in the matter. The commissioners could in no sense be said to represent the taxpayers. All they had to do was to see that the taxpayers were first assessed and then harried and squeezed for the money. The taxpayers would like to get rid of the whole boiling of the commissioners and the whole kit of the collectors, tax, and all. They would pay no taxes at all if they could help it. The hon. Member for Evesham had remarked that the Bill did not come in in the usual way. It did not come in in the usual way. There had been two or three editions of the measure; and the last edition had in one fell swoop
 1477
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : Sir, the expense of conveyancing has long been a subject of complaint in Scotland among all who are concerned in land; and those who have considered the means of diminishing that expense have, on the whole, come to the conclusion that it is mainly caused by the state of the registration of lands. We have in Scotland the benefit of a very valuable system of registration of titles, but we have to pay for that by a very heavy amount of costs at every step and singe of the transfer of land. There is no doubt about that among all those most qualified to judge of the question. Until the Report of the Commissioners appeared, I am sure that there was in almost every quarter but one opinion on the subject, which was, that the reform of the registers was to be the main channel through which we were to reach economy in the transfer of land; and that the reform of the registers consisted chiefly in bringing them all into one place, under one system and authority, and according to a uniform principle. We have
 1506 1507 esprit de corps prestige 1508 1509
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he was very desirous to explain the nature of the measure, because a very considerable amount of misunderstanding and misapprehension prevailed in reference to
 1510 1511 1512 status quo 1513 "The repairs of all such district churches or chapels shall be made fey the districts to which they respectively belong, by rates to be raised within the district in like manner as in case of repairs of churches by parishes, and every such district shall be deemed in law a separate and distinct parish for that purpose." 1514 1515 "No church rate levied within any parish shall be applicable to any but the church and to the church purposes of such parish." "The districts ( i.e. 1516 "Shall for all ecclesiastical purposes be parishioners thereof and of no other parish, and such new parish shall for the like purposes have and possess all the same rights and privileges, and be: affected with: such and; the same liabilities as are incident or belong to a distinct and separate parish." 1517 "And to no other liabilities: provided always that nothing herein contained shall be taken to affect the legal liabilities of any parish regulated by a local Act of Parliament, or the security for any loan of money legally borrowed under any Act of Parliament or otherwise." v 1518 1519 1520
 MR. REMINGT0N MILLS  said, that having been taunted with forcing on the Committee the consideration of the question of church rates, he wished to state that last year, on the second reading of the Bill, he objected to it on the same grounds as he did now. The Secretary of State then said that no doubt it was understood that church rates should not be leviable for the support of those district churches, that the question was one for the Select Committee, and that no instruction would be necessary. Therefore, he was fully justified by what fell from the right hon. Baronet in bringing the subject before the Committee. He altogether disclaimed having imputed to the hon. and learned Attorney General any motives except the most honourable. He believed that the hon. and learned Gentleman never at tempted anything which he did not think right, and that his course was guided by the principles of justice; but from first to last, since the money from the Million Act was expended, it was understood that churches built by subscription were not to be supported by church rates. Nevertheless, he maintained that the present Bill gave the power of levying church rates in district parishes. It ought to be considered that by re-enacting a clause they gave it additional force. He stood alone in the Committee, and he had endeavoured to maintain his principles honestly, which he would always continue to do.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, that as all the arguments had been one way it would be unnecessary for him to detain the House at any length, but he trusted that his right hon. and learned Friend the Lord Advocate would not press this measure on at present. The petitions against it were signed by ablest men in Scotland, and the Council of the Society of Solicitors, the Lord Advocate's own friends, had in a report presented to a meeting held on the 6th inst. referred to the limited time which had been allowed for the consideration of the measure. Public feeling in Scotland at the present time was decidedly opposed to the plan proposed by the right hon. Gentleman, though not to the object which he had in view—namely, the simplification of the registration system. He implored his right hon. and learned Friend to give more time for the consideration of the measure.
 MR. CARNEGIE  said, it was very significant that the only voice that had yet been raised in favour of the Bill was that of the hon. and learned Member for Bute (Mr. Mure), a practising lawyer and ex-Lord Advocate. This was an instance of the self-conceit of the Edinburgh gentlemen who took upon themselves to speak in the name of all Scotland. The only check upon them was the existence of another city called Glasgow, which had a still larger population; and when it was found that some gentlemen in Glasgow were of opinion that these registers might be removed, the opportunity was eagerly seized, and a Commission was appointed, consisting of one Edinburgh and one Glasgow man, the rest of Scotland being entirely ignored. The Glasgow man was a gentleman who had distinctly enunciated his opinion upon the subject, and, therefore, while wishing to speak with all respect of the commissioners, and to give their report all the weight it was worth, he considered it simply valuable as recording the reasons on which two decidedly clever men supported their pet scheme. The sort of sneer with which the hon. Member for Bute spoke of the county meetings was quite of a piece with the general manner in which the proceedings in regard to this Bill had been conducted. He thought those meetings the most valuable checks upon the general principle of what might be called Edinburgh legislation; and perhaps it was convenient to bring in Bills of this kind at a time when the county meetings were not sitting. They had heard a good deal about the expense of the double search; but he believed that the expense arose solely from the extent of arrears in the indices at Edinburgh, and that they had been kept in arrears for the purpose of bringing discredit upon the present system.
 SIR CHARLES DOUGLAS  said, that the principle which those who agreed with him contended for had been admitted by the hon. and learned Gentleman, that, during the last thirty years, no Bill had been carried through the House which did not proceed on the assumption that church rates were not to be interfered with. He wished to call attention to what passed in the year 1828, when an attempt was made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer of the day to pass a Bill which was not allowed to be read a second time, although he stated that it would not interfere with the question of church rates.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  regretted that the opposition to this Bill should have taken the form of imputations upon the motives of the hon. and learned Lord Advocate, whose only object could be to benefit the public. He did not think that it was at all conducive to the dignity of Scotch discussions in the House to have imputations cast upon hon. Gentlemen who might introduce measures for the public good.
 1503
 MR. LIDDELL  said, it seemed to him that an important point had been lost sight of in the discussion—namely, that the Bill was a breach of Parliamentary faith. He always understood that Sir Robert Peel imposed the income tax upon the express condition that it should be locally assessed, and it was accepted by the country on that condition. The in-
 1471
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : My hon. and gallant Friend alludes to further Correspondence.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET , in reply, said, there was a very great objection to laying the Confidential Reports of Naval Officers to the Admiralty on the table of the House. If his hon. and gallant Friend would state any particular points in the case on which he wished for information,
 1456
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : If my hon. and gallant Friend puts it to me in that way I cannot refuse, but as a rule it is my duty to object to produce Reports from officers, which are always more or less of a confidential nature.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he felt bound to say that, while there appeared to be a strong feeling against the Bill in the county which his hon. Friend behind him represented, be had heard of no feeling being expressed in his favour. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he might add, had not informed the House what amount of money would be required for the purpose of compensation if the measure were to pass. Now, at the end of the Bill, there was a clause providing compensation to the local collectors who were removed from their present avocations; and as the intention of the Government was to work the measure through the agency of the existing distributors of stamps, it was quite clear that the compensation which would have to be paid, if the Bill should pass, would make a serious inroad upon the saving which the right hon. Gentleman calculated upon. Seeing, therefore, that there was no chance of any
 1478
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he wanted to know why the metropolis was to be the only place having a brand put upon it, distinct from the rest of the country, of working with the existing collectors, the right hon. Gentleman having stated at the same time that it might be expedient to pursue that system in some of the large towns. Some arrangement seemed to have been come to under which the metropolitan Members were to support the Bill, on condition that the metropolis was excluded from its provisions. In the division which had just taken place they enabled the Government to force the measure upon county constituencies, while they themselves were sheltered and shielded by the compact entered into with Government.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he could not agree with the last speaker in the conclusions he had drawn from Sir Robert Peel's and the Marquess of Blandford's Acts, that hem. Members on that side of the House should agree with the hon. Member for Wycombe that church rates should never be levied in the parishes thus created. Sir Robert Peel, as was well known, was a cautious man, and he did not say anything about church rates, because his measure contained no direct allusion to them; but it was not fair to argue from that silence twenty years afterwards that church rates never were to be raised in these parishes With respect to the Marquess of Blandford's Act, the hon. and learned Attorney General had put the matter in the clearest light. It was upon a discussion upon the second clause that Lord Blandford spoke, and afterwards the Bill was altered. The measure must be judged by its words, and not by a conversation upon a particular clause. Taking the Act as they found it, and wishing to consolidate it with other Church Building Acts, it would be absurd to suppose that having successfully maintained the existence of church rates; Members on the Opposition side would agree to insert words in a Consolidation Bill, to prevent for all time the rating of church rates in the new and largely increasing parishes. The history which the hon. Gentleman had given of this Bill showed that if this Bill had
 1525 1526
 MR. AYRTON  said, he thought the merits of the Bill could best be canvassed on the second reading. He would take a discussion on the Motion of which he had given notice, on going into Committee of Supply on Monday.
 MR. AYRTON  observed, that the Bill had been before the House for a considerable period, but no notice had been given of the Motion of the hon. Member, and many of the metropolitan Members, in fact, were not present. Special clauses would be necessary to render the Act applicable to the metropolis, the circumstances of which differed entirely from the rest of the country.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he trusted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not sanction the Amendment, as all the parties in the metropolis concerned had been under the impression that the Bill in its present form did not apply to them; otherwise they would have shown good reasons why the measure should not apply to the metropolis.
 MR. AYRTON  said, there was already legislation upon this subject. He begged
 1531
 MR. BLACK : Sir, I cannot pretend to be acquainted with the legal circumstances connected with this question. I can only say that if I were in the position of a seller or purchaser of property. I should like very well to have the opportunity of ascertaining readily and correctly whether there are or are not any burdens on the property; and it seems to me that it would be better for that purpose that there should be one general register in one particular place, which would give me the information I require, than that I should have to hunt for it in several different parts of the country. The proper place to go to for such
 1504 1505
 MR. DUNLOP  most cordially thanked the Lord Advocate for having at last introduced a measure of this kind. At the same time, considering that the Government had taken ten years to consider the matter and prepare a definite scheme in the shape of the Bill before the House, he did not think they should grudge very much about granting the country as many months to consider it, as they had taken years. The matter had certainly been talked of in a general way for ten years, but in a vague, general, and uncertain way; and until it assumed the definite form of a Bill, people really did not give their attention to it. They had now a Bill proposed by the Government, and he was sure that in discussing it his right hon. and learned Friend would acquit him of any undue jealousy either of centralization or against Edinburgh lawyers, or of any want of sympathy with him in his desire — for which he gave him the fullest credit—to put the system of registration for Scotland on a footing more efficient than that which had been the admiration of the world at large. They were all agreed as to the necessity of getting rid of the double search. This might be accomplished in two ways—either by abolishing the general register, or by transferring the local registers to Edinburgh. The Lord Advocate proposed to transfer the local registers to Edinburgh. But the great preference in Scotland was in favour of the local registers. There was the option now, either to go to Edinburg or to the local registers; and it was
 1499 1500
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether his attention has been called to the disastrous condition of the Colony of Lagos, and to the circumstance that the policy adopted by the Governor has destroyed the trade with Abbeokouta, and compelled its inhabitants to defend themselves against the recent attack of the King of Dahomey with ammunition purchased in exchange for slaves from French merchants at Porto Novo; and that thus the Colony of Lagos, founded for the alleged purpose of suppressing the Slave Trade, has been the direct means of stimulating it; whether the Governor of Lagos has been or will be recalled; and whether, in order to avert the recurrence of such costly disasters as have recently taken place, both at Lagos and on the Gold Coast, Her Majesty's Government has considered the expediency of relinquishing all territorial Protectorates on the West Coast of Africa?
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, the principle of the Bill was admitted by the present legislation. The question was its adaptation to what might be called the German crusade, and the prevention of twenty or thirty trumpets blowing a blast into the windows of houses in many of the metropolis. He thought they might pass the second reading, and reserve the discussion for the Committee.
 MR. C. TURNER  said, the Bill in its original form was intended to apply to every part of England. The metropolitan Members then opposed the Bill, and in common with others went upon deputations to the Government; but now that London had been exempted they threw their colleagues overboard and gave their support to the Government. Their Friends whom they had deserted felt that they were not well treated.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : There is no doubt that question will not be brought before the House. The Council of India exercises independent functions with reference to the revenues of India, and the Vote of the Council concurred in by the Secretary of State does not require the confirmation of the House.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : Perhaps I may be allowed to answer the question by stating what the Council for India has done. A large portion of the services of the Earl of Elgin having been rendered in other parts of the world, it was not for
 1462
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether he can give the House any information as to the result of the sitting of the Conference that day?
 MR. MURE  said, he should certainly feel it his duty to support the second reading of the Bill. It was said that the House was not in a condition to enter on so difficult and important a measure; but when would it be in a condition to enter on it? It was not a new subject. So far from the scheme having originated with the Edinburgh lawyers, it originated with the professional gentlemen of Glasgow. So far back as the year 1850, there was a report deliberately prepared by the procurators of Glasgow recommending the very change which was now proposed. That report was printed and circulated in Scotland among the different legal bodies there, and the proposal was deliberately considered by the procurators of Edinburgh; and in 1858, this same proposal having been considered by the practitioners of the Supreme Court of Scotland, met with their approval. Since then, in order to test the soundness of the views taken by these various legal bodies, commissioners were appointed by
 1495 1496 1497 1498
 MR. CARDWELL , in reply, said, the Governor of Lagos had written to him by the last mail stating that he was about to proceed upon a mission to Abbeokouta in the hope of restoring, by pacific measures, the peaceful relations between the people of that district and the King of Dahomey, the war between whom was the chief
 1457
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, it was remarkable only one voice had been raised in favour of the Bill, and that came from Edinburgh. He did not attribute motives to the lawyers of Edinburgh or any one else, but assumed that the opinions expressed on both sides were conscientious views as to what was most conducive to the welfare of the country. But the whole of the country was against the opinions expressed from Edinburgh, and he thought that fact was sufficient to call for a postponement of the Lord Advocate's plan. They wanted to get rid of a double search, and the Bill did not affect that object, it simply removed one set of registers from the county town in Edinburgh. It was said that the Bill would save £7,000 a year, but the real question was which was the best thing to do—to maintain two searches, removing twenty county registers to Edinburgh, or to do away with the borough register and leave the county registers as they were. He could see no advantage in removing the registers from the counties to Edinburgh. Well, it was said in Ireland it was done so, and that might be a good argument if they were establishing the registry for the first time in Scotland, but as it already existed and was working well, the feelings of the people of Scotland should be considered, and they were not in favour of the centralization.
 1502
 MR. WARNER  said that some of the objections which had been urged against the Bill would rather induce him to support it. It was perfectly well known that the payment of the collectors varied enormously in different districts. There might be reasons for leaving out places where the pay for collection was large, but there were districts in which collectors could not be induced without compulsion to work for the remuneration which they received. The consequence was that all sorts of illegal proceedings were resorted to in order to repay the collectors for their trouble. In one place the collector was paid out of the highway-rate; in another a voluntary rate which was collected with the poor-rate was made for him. Another grave objection to the present state of the law was the liability of a man who had paid his tax to be again called upon to pay it in consequence of the default of the collector. The Bill might not be the best remedy for existing evils, but, as no better had been proposed, he should support it.
 MR. KNIGHT  said, he would then move to add to the end of the clause the words "or to any city or town containing more than 20,000 inhabitants according to the last census."
 MR. HUNT  said, he should move the omission from the clause of the words "or sent." He thought that the notice for neglect of which a man was liable to be posted as a defaulter ought to be delivered personally. Many persons were careless about letters, and the House ought to take some security that the notice actually reached the defaulter. The letter, for example, might be registered, and the postman instructed to make an endorsement of delivery.
 MR. HUNT  said, he would admit that the arrangements for using money orders and accepting postage stamps had very much obviated his objection to the Bill. He took it that the notice referred to by the right hon. Gentleman would be a proceeding under the Court, but he could not help thinking, however, that some personal notice should be served upon a taxpayer before he was returned as a defaulter to the Court of Exchequer. In the absence of a more satisfactory explanation he must press his Amendment.
 MR. HUNT  said, he would remind hon. Members for the metropolis that the Wine Licences Bill originally introduced did not apply to Ireland, and the Irish Members assisted in passing it. But later in the same Session a Bill, extending the provisions of the former measure to Ireland, was brought in by the Government, when, of course, the English Members, like foxes who had lost their tails, were naturally anxious that others should be placed in the same condition. He assured the right hon. Gentleman that if the measure passed into law with the assistance of the metropolitan Members, his cordial support would be given to a supplementary measure for applying its provisions to the metropolis.
 MR. HUNT  said, he was sorry to find in the Bill a principle which was generally in, favour with weak Governments when
 1468
 MR. HUNT  said, he did not wish to protect persons whose object it was to avoid paying their taxes, but the present practice was to leave the notice open, while under the Bill the notice would be sent by post in a sealed envelope. He would put the case of sealed applications for taxes
 1484
 MR. HUNT  said, he had listened with great admiration to the able and luminous
 1521 1522 v
 MR. HUNT  supposed that the Chancellor of the Exchequer opposed the Bill as a friend of the Italian cause, forgetting that Savoy had recently been annexed to France, and that barrel organs were not-included in the French Treaty. For his own part, he objected to all discordant sounds, even though they might come from the Treasury Bench, and his ear had been offended by hearing the Home Secretary say he was in favour of the second reading, and the Chancellor of the-Exchequer that he was decidedly opposed to it; and the President of the; Board of Trade appeared to be the same. He had no wish to interfere with the amusements of the people, and if there were a class fond of street music, in the name of Heaven let them have it; but he maintained that if the inhabitants of any particular street did not want to be driven crazy by the sounds of a barrel organ, they should be permitted to send the grinder away. All that was intended by the Bill; was to prevent those men from wandering into streets where their discordant sound were not appreciated, but where they levied the greatest amount of black mail. As to the case of the band playing near the Chancellor of the Exchequer's house, that scarcely came within the ordinary definition of street music. At any rate, if all street musicians performed as well, he would never wish to send them away. He hoped the hon. Member for Derby would persevere with his Bill. He was as anxious as the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer that the tastes of the people should be consulted, but he denied that the tastes of the people required the music which it was proposed to remove.
 MR. LYALL  said, he was in favour of the Bill, and had voted for going into Committee, but he understood that only
 1479
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he objected to the powers conferred by the Bill, and thought that the President of the Board of Trade should have a discretion in the matter. He would ask why should existing railways be allowed, without any  locus standi
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he two years ago moved the introduction of a Bill for the consolidation of the ecclesiastical law, and in which he was supported by many influential Members of the Government, but from some cause or other he was defeated, and he was unable to carry the whole of the measure. The present law was in a most confused and contradictory state, and its imperfect condition had been alluded to by some of the ablest Judges of the land. Dr. Lushington and
 1523 1524
 MR. BUTT  said, he thought it was absurd to suggest that the discussion should be taken in Committee. The Bill Consisted of only one clause, and consequently the whole question was now, at issue. [ Cries of
 MR. BUTT  begged to move the-adjournment of the debate.
 MR. BUTT  begged to second the Amendment.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer if there was any reason for excluding the metropolis, which contained between three and four millions of people, that did not apply to Birmingham, which contained between two and three hundred thousand. The constituency which he represented had sent a memorial which expressed very strong feelings on this question, and they thought if the metropolis were excluded they also
 1482
 MR. HENNESSY : The question of the hon. Baronet has not been answered, namely, whether the £1000 voted by the Indian Council to the Countess of Elgin, will come before the House. The Countess of Elgin, no doubt, well deserves this pension, and I do not find fault with it. Indeed she might receive with propriety perhaps a more liberal pension than has been
 1463
 MR. BASS  said, he would not now enter on the principle of the Bill, as he had already given an assurance that a full opportunity of debating it would be allowed on the Motion to go into Committee. To show the necessity for legislation on this subject, he would mention an incident in which he himself was concerned. At eight o'clock that morning, while at breakfast, he was put out of aumour by a street band; at nine, when reading  The Times 1533
 MR. WYKEHAM MARTIN  asked whether these taxes would be payable at any Money Order Office.
 MR. AYTOUN  said, he did not wish to offer any opinion with regard to the merits of the Bill, but simply to urge that he did not think the House was in a position to legislate upon the subject, and that, if it attempted to do so, it might be legislating in the dark. All he knew was that it was very desirable to cheapen and facilitate the transfer of land—so far he agreed with the Lord Advocate; but that his right hon. and learned Friend's plan would have that effect he had heard nothing to induce him to believe. He should like to know why this measure was not brought forward at a period of the Session when it might have been discussed at the county meetings in Scotland, so that Members like himself,
 1494
 MR. COLLINS  said, that if the Committee sanctioned the Amendment they would produce this difficulty—that, as the metropolis was situated in several counties, the commissioners of the respective counties might come to different resolutions with respect to London itself.
 MR. COLLINS  said, he hoped that the debate would be adjourned. He should oppose the Bill. It would interfere most tyrannically with the amusements of the people.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that that clause was framed with the view of removing any opposition to the Bill. When a certificate for making a branch line of railway was granted by the Board of Trade, it was thought only fair that a Railway Company which petitioned the House, and declared that it had an interest in the Bill, should have the right to be heard before the Select Committee upon the measure in question. He certainly could not consent to make any change in that arrangement.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  replied, that within certain limits and under certain circumstances it was not illegal to have dredges on board in the fine months. It was, however, prohibited to have dredges on board at certain seasons on the particular part of the coast to which the Question of the hon. Gentleman referred.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, in reply, that some information, though not of a very definite character, had been obtained,
 1458
 MR. HORSFALL  said, the country constituencies had a right to complain of the insertion of the exemption. It was the country constituencies, and not the metropolis, who were taken by surprise.
 1481
 MR. HORSFALL  said, he should move, as an Amendment to the clause, that all the words should be struck out which exempted the metropolis from its operation.
 MR. HORSFALL  said, he thought the Bill was a step in the right direction. They must bear in mind that the ratepayers had felt the present mode of collecting the rates in many instances to be a great grievance. It was calculated that the saving to the revenue would be £50,000; but from the evidence taken before the Committee it appeared that it would be a saving to the public revenue of as much as £80,000 per annum. At present, in case the collector eloped, although the taxpayer had paid his taxes, he was liable to be again called upon. That was because the collectors were appointed by irresponsible parties, and not by Government. But if a Government collector were to fail, no such thing could happen. When the tax was paid once, it was paid for all. As to the supposed difficulty of collecting the tax by letter, they had it in evidence that in Scotland, where collection by letter had been tried, it had been found easier to collect it in that than in any other way. Though very much in favour of the Bill, he thought the Members for London, sixteen in number, had exercised an undue influence on the Government in the matter, and he should be prepared, if the Bill went into Committee, to vote that the exception in favour of London should be struck out.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, he thought the measure required grave consideration before it was sanctioned by the House, interfering as it did with a large class of persons, and those the poorest of the community. Street music might annoy some persons, but it certainly amused many more, and it was to be regretted that the extreme sensibilities of a few individuals should have led them to enter upon a crusade against, it. If a Bill like that had been proposed for the City of Dublin or Glasgow, it would not have been entertained for a moment. It was said that street musicians were supported by a kind of black mail; that, in fact, they were paid by people for the purpose of getting rid of them; but he utterly denied that statement. They were supported on the ordinary principle of supply and demand. Why should they seek to interfere with the amusements of he lower orders? They might as well attempt to put down smoking, which gave enjoyment of those who indulged in it, but annoyed others who did not. They ought to have a clear proof of the evils resulting from the practice against which the Bill was aimed, and also clear proof that that was the proper mode of remedying those evils; and at present the House possessed neither. That was, after all, a paltry kind of legislation, unworthy of the British Parliament, and if they were to legislate against every petty annoyance which some individuals suffered, they would involve themselves in interminable difficulties. Many people complained of the nuisance caused by children practicing at the pianoforte next door to them. He was thankful he had not to endure such an infliction. Was that to be put down by Act of Parliament also? It was a great annoyance to a house in which there was somebody lying sick that
 1530
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he must take issue with the last speaker, and contended that while the principle of the existing law was reasonable, the principle of the Bill was most unreasonable. The principle of the existing law was that for reasonable cause any street musician might be stopped and sent away by the police; but the hon. Member for Derby (Mr. Bass) wished to substitute for a reasonable cause the purely arbitrary veto of a single individual. He believed that if the Bill passed in its present shape it would authorize him to require a policeman to disperse the band which now played every evening within fifty yards of his windows, and the performances of which were attended by and amused from 2,000 to 3,000 persons. He thought those who attended concerts and the opera were not good judges of what amused the people in that respect. The Bill, in short, was an unwarrantable interference with the amuse-
 1532
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the law of re-assessment was a severe and harsh one, and the questions of waiving a re-assessment were among the most unsatisfactory and disagreeable duties which a person in his position had to deal with. It was always difficult to arrive at the bottom of the interests so keenly concerned, and the questions raised were so nice that he frankly owned that no Minister could discharge the duty satisfactorily. He would explain why it was that he had assented to the exemption of the metropolis. One important distinction was this, that in the case of almost every very large town it was the centre of a rural district, in which the payment of the taxes from the rural district took place. Consequently, if they exempted those large towns the Government would be obliged to have offices and officers in those towns, and at the same time the officers would have nothing to do with the most profitable part of the receipts. They would, in fact, have no duty to perform except the receiving of taxes collected in the rural districts; and his hon. Friend would see that the Government could not undertake to discharge the duty upon those terms. But when they came to the case of still larger towns, they found a large business done under a very efficient system; and if they disturbed the collectors, compensation would be required, while under this Bill their services might be continued. Again, as he had already explained, the Government in the metropolis had no stamp distributors, who in the country would have to carry out the Bill, and who in doing so would have to make the best arrangement they could for the public interest. If the Act were applied to London, they would have to do one of two things—either they must leave the collection in the hands of the existing collectors, or else displace the collectors and give them compensation, and then they would be obliged to appoint,  de novo 1480
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the hon. Member for Northumberland (Mr. Liddell), whilst he allowed that there had been a saving in Scotland by the adoption of the system proposed by the Bill, stated that the House would be guilty of a breach of faith if it adopted the measure, as the late Sir Robert Peel made a promise that the collection of the income tax should be
 1472 1473 1474 1475 1476
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was calculated that, with very few exceptions, there was a Money Order Office within four miles of everybody. If the market town where the money was payable was six miles distant, the taxpayer could go to the nearest Money Order Office and send the money thence.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he could not accede to the principle of the Amendment. To require a public officer to travel several miles to give a personal notice instead of a written one would be most unreasonable. Such a provision would be a premium on carelessness. It was neither the law nor the practice at present. It had happened to him, possibly from the distraction of other occupations, to neglect paying his taxes at the proper time. He had, thereupon, received the usual notice, that if the tax were not paid he would be returned as a defaulter.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the suggestion of the hon. Member was deserving of consideration. The first step in au Exchequer pro-
 1483 s
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would suggest to the hon. Member that it would be better for him to move that the Chairman leave the Chair. The adoption of the addition which the hon. Member proposed would be the destruction of the Bill.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he had had no communication with any metropolitan Member on the subject of the Bill, except that his noble Friend the Member for Middlesex (Lord Enfield) wrote to him to receive a deputation.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in the absence of the Under Secretary for the Colonies, begged to move the following Resolution:—
 "That Her Majesty be authorized to relinquish in favour of King George the First, the King of Hellenes, during his reign, the sum of £4,000 sterling a year and to that extent to release the Greek Treasury from the obligation of a certain arrangement concluded at Athens in the month of June, 1860, in reference to the Greek Loan." 1528
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that proposal was very reasonable, and one of the two suggestions of the hon. Member should be adopted.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, they might be paid through any Money Order Office without charge for the order, but the postage would have to be paid.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had not felt himself justified in altering the system of poundage to collectors, further than was required by the nature of the Bill. With regard to the assessed taxes, there was no reason for maintaining the system of poundage which they had in the income tax. It was much fairer to pay the assessors by the amount of work done.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought it would be unreasonable to make the Revenue department responsible for the taxpayer going abroad. He would give the subject his attention before the Report.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  assured the hon. Gentleman that the Bill would be worked in an equitable spirit, and said that, practically, it would be obligatory on the Treasury to give compen-
 1485
 MR. BARROW  said, that a personal demand ought in all cases to be made on the taxpayer at his own house before he was distrained upon. Rich men could easily send a check, but men in humbler life did not keep an account with a banker.
 MR. BARROW , as a Commissioner of Taxes, thought the right hon. Gentleman was mistaken. In his district the taxpayers would sometimes have to travel six miles.
 MR. BARROW  said, that he objected to the Bill as it was a measure for one class of society and not for another. It would involve the necessity of small farmers having very small sums to pay going sometimes a distance of twenty miles to pay their tax twice in every twelve months. That to his mind was a very serious objection, particularly as he knew the difficulty there was in persuading the ordinary class of small farmers of the necessity of their paying their taxes before any legal process was taken. For instance, a man appealed against the tax charged for his horse, and it was shown that he had used it once or twice for the purposes of pleasure, although at other times for the purposes of agriculture only; and he was ordered to pay. That man felt he had suffered a hardship, and he would doggedly refuse to pay the tax; and he did not think the proposal was likely to diminish the difficulty. By the present system a man's neighbour was the collector, and pressed him to pay the tax; his neighbour was the assessor, the commissioners also were his neighbours, and for them he would be likely to have some respect. Under the Bill he would have nothing but a notice by letter, which would not have the same effect as the remonstrances of his neighbours, and he would at once become liable to a very expensive process on the part of Her Majesty's Exchequer. He was unwilling to accept any measure which was likely to put the poorer classes of his
 1470 pro formâ
 MR. BAXTER  seconded the Amendment, and said that the hon. Baronet (Sir James Fergusson) had pointed out so clearly and distinctly the reason why the Bill ought to be rejected, that he did not
 1490 1491 "It shall be lawful for the Lords Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury, upon the application of the Lord Clerk Register, to regulate from time to time the offices of the general register of sasines, and of the general register of hornings, inhibitions, and adjudications under this Act, and to sanction such increased establishment of deputies, assistants, clerks, or other officers, as may be necessary for the purposes hereof, and to fix the salaries and remuneration to be allowed to the officers of the said departments respectively; and such salaries and remuneration shall be payable out of the fees to be drawn in said departments respectively, or"—let the House observe—"out of any other funds to be provided by Parliament for that purpose." 1492 1493
 MR. COX  said, the noble Lord was mistaken in supposing that the whole of the metropolitan Members went into the lobby with the Government. No arrangement whatever had been come to with the metropolitan Members, but a large deputation of inhabitants of the metropolis had waited on the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and whatever agreement was entered into must have been with them. He had previously voted against the Bill, because he believed it would have the effect of vesting a great deal of patronage in the hands of the Government, and because it exhibited a centralizing tendency; and for the same reason he should vote against the metropolis being included.
 MR. FERRAND  said, he had put a similar Question to the noble Lord a few nights ago, and he had stated in reply that he would lay the Correspondence on the table.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he had presented a Petition to the House from the Society of Advocates in Aberdeen, a body of gentlemen who, from their experience and position, were quite as competent to form a judgment upon the subject as any body of lawyers in Edinburgh, and they were decidedly opposed to the Bill. The people of Scotland desired to have facilities for registration locally, and without going to Edinburgh. If there were no other objection to the Bill, there was this most conclusive one, that it proposed to take from local bodies the management of their own affairs, and establish a system of centralization in its stead.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  was understood to allude to a defalcation in one of the parishes of the borough he represented as one of the reasons why he gave his support to the measure.
 SIR BALDWIN LEIGHTON  said, he objected to the Bill, as it was most undesirable that that sort of permissive Bills should be brought in. So far as the assessment was concerned, it was practically not altered, as the assessment was in fact made by a Government officer. As to the assessors, although they were very sharp men in their own way, when called upon to make the assessment, they were the dullest people possible; and when they had to discharge duties with which they were utterly unacquainted, they were as stupid and ignorant as could be imagined. If, however, it was right to take the collectorship out of the hands of the Commissioners, the same rule should be applied to the towns as to the country districts. He would therefore vote in favour of the Amendment.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, he wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer to explain the reason why the metropolis was to be excluded from the operation of this Bill, while other large towns were included.
 MR. F. S. POWELL  suggested that the subject of the letters should be marked outside, or that they should be sent open.
 MR. F. S. POWELL  suggested that it should be made obligatory on the Treasury to award compensation in such cases.
 MR. F. S. POWELL  said, he agreed with all that had been said in praise of the hon. and learned Attorney General for the attention he had given to the subject. There was another Gentleman on the opposite bench to whom a tribute of praise was also due, he meant the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Colonies. He was quite satisfied that they would not have arrived at the conclusion which they had reached but for his efforts. It had been stated that the effect of the present Bill would be to authorize the levying of pew rents in parish churches; but there was nothing in the Bill to authorize that, though it was true such a provision might apply to certain new churches. The hon. and learned Attorney General had fallen into an error. The-draft of the Bill, as originally drawn, enacted that one-fifth part of the pews in every church referred to should be free; but the Committee decided that one-third should be free, and therefore the hon. and learned Gentleman could hardly claim for having desired that one-half should be free, when in his own Bill one-fifth was inserted. The practice was to have one-third of the seats free. In the case of those new churches the law only required the consent of the Bishop, but the present Bill required that there should be the consents of the incumbent and the patron also, unless it could be shown that pew rents were absolutely necessary. In the Committee it was also proposed that pews should be let for only one year, and the great evil had arisen in consequence of letting for longer periods. There was another provision that appeared to be an act of injustice on the part of the Committee; it was enacted that during the lifetime of any incumbent, and contrary to his wish, a certain sum of money derived from pew rents should be taken away in the event of the augmentation of his income. He must say that he felt great regret that the Bill had been withdrawn, for he believed that in the hands of the Attorney General it might have been made a useful measure by getting rid of doubts and embarrassments which new existed. He, however, felt little encouragement from what had passed; and he believed that a purely Consolidation Bill could not pass, and if it did, it would only have the effect of bringing to light a number of ambiguities and obscurities in the law.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he agreed with that suggestion He had told the hon. Member for Derby (Mr. Bass) that he would not oppose the second, reading, but that it would be necessary to amend the Bill in Committee.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY : Will the grant by the East Indian Company be brought before the House in any shape? I have constitutional reasons for wishing to have an answer to that question from the noble Lord.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he had hoped his hon. Friend would have concluded with a Resolution expressing his views on the subject. He had himself given notice of his intention to move an Amendment to the Motion for going into Committee. The fact was, that the House had had no opportunity of expressing an opinion on the Bill. They had, indeed, slid into a very inconvenient kind of legislation in allowing Bills to pass their earlier stages in silence. Those who objected to a measure were hampered by being compelled to state their objections to the principle of a Bill on the Motion for going into Committee. That system had been carried to such an extent during the present Session, that the House had not, up to that time, had an opportunity of passing an opinion upon the principle of the Government Annuities Bill. It was read a first time, and then, after the second reading, was handed over to a Select Committee, which led to much general discussion on Loan and Friendly Societies. The Committee altered the preamble and the title. When the Bill came again it contained seventeen clauses instead of three, and
 1466 1467
 SIR JAMSS FERGUSSON  said, he would withdrawn his Amendment.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, it might appear presumptuous in a layman to ask the postponement of a measure dealing with so technical a subject; but if the House would grant him a few minutes attention, he thought he could show that the question was not one which required a legal mind, but one which came clearly within the comprehension of every one. The Bill was introduced at a comparatively late period of the Session, and it was not till about ten days since that the Lord Advocate made an extended statement of its scope and objects; he thought, therefore, it would be right that they should have longer time for its consideration. He now asked the House whether, by the light of the Lord Advocate's statement, there was any ground for introducing such sudden find sweeping changes? According to the learned Lord Advocate, one of the great; advantages that would accrue from the abolition of the double registers would be the abolition of a double search, and that different kinds of economy would be accomplished by certain changes in the different classes of deeds in the record. The learned Lord Advocate remarked particularly on the improvements that would be effected by one general register, and the saving of expense in searching; and declared that in proposing the measure he was not consulting the interests of any exclusive body of petitioners, but that, in fact, the proposal emanated from a large and important body in Glasgow, and that Edinburgh was interested in only a secondary degree. He wound up his clear and candid statement by saying that his object was, that dealers in land, whether buyers or sellers, should have a good and clear
 1486 1487 1488 1489
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he must urge upon the noble Lord the expediency of producing the letter for which he had just asked, as it involved the character of a distinguished officer, and also the quality of one of Her Majesty's Ships.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether there has been any Official Correspondence from the Commander-in-Chief at Devonport on the subject of the recent inspection of the  Research
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he trusted that the House would agree to the second reading of the Bill for putting down the abominable nuisance of street organs. He happened to live next door to a religious club, and. regularly every Saturday morning an Italian came and played the 100th Psalm on a hand organ. He sent his servant out on one occasion to request the man to vary the psalm; but he said he had not another in his  repertoire
 MR. CAVE  said, he wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether his attention has been directed to a statement that a large fleet of oyster smacks has been lately dredging within twenty miles south of Beachy Head; whether this is not contrary to law; and, if so, why the prohibition against smacks putting to sea with dredges on board after the 30th of April, which has been rigidly carried out at Shoreham Harbour, is not enforced elsewhere?
 MR. CAVE  said, he wished to know why the prohibition to put dredges on board had not been enforced?
 MR. CAVE  said, the right hon. Gentleman had not answered the latter part of his Question. Without dredges on board there could be no illegal dredging.
 MR. BAZLEY  said, exceptions were always causes of dissatisfaction, and he therefore hoped the Committee would not sanction a different law for London and Manchester.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  joined in the appeal to the Lord Advocate not to press his motion to a division in no hostile
 1501
 MR. LAWSON  said, he understood that the hon. Member for Derby (Mr. Bass), who had brought forward the Bill, had a coadjutor out-of-doors who had written a pamphlet on the subject of street music, and who maintained that the whole body of organ-grinders was supported by the licensed victuallers and the proprietors of public-houses. He believed that the habit of frequenting public-houses and the amount of intoxication was much augmented by means of music at the doors. It therefore found support in the licensed victuallers.
 SIR WILLIAM FRASER : I have no desire to prolong this discussion, but I wish to impress on Her Majesty's Government, that on another occasion, when a similar Vote will be brought before the House, the noble Lord ought to explain the principle upon which pensions are granted. I think the pension of £1,000 a year a very moderate sum; but when the Vote of £20,000 to Sir Rowland Hill is brought before the House, I shall be glad to hear the principle upon which pensions are granted, more particularly to general officers. It is usual when the Crown confers a title for this House to grant a pension of £2,000 per annum for life, and for two generations; but it is considered by some that it is not a good arrangement or economical to the country, or an adequate sum to enable a noble Lord to sustain his position. When Sir Rowland Hill's pension comes before the House, I do not think it will be an improper time to raise the question, and receive an explanation from the noble Lord of the principle upon which these sums are granted.
 MR. JACKSON  said, he thought if the late Sir Robert Peel had been alive he would have gladly supported the measure, because experience would have taught him that the present mode of collection was a bad one. He only regretted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not introduced a Bill to make not only the collection, but also the assessment by Government officers, as he believed there would be a very large amount thereby added to the income of the country; and those who had honestly paid would be relieved by making those pay who had not acted with equal honesty. He thought, however, that the operation of the Bill should be general and include the Metropolis.
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  said, his objection was that landowners were not placed in as good a position in that respect as Railway
 1529
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  said, he rose to move that the Chairman do report Progress.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I am in a position to answer that Question, and in a manner which I hope will be satisfactory to the House. The Conference to-day prolonged the armistice for a fortnight from the 12th inst., the day on which it would have expired.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Mr. Massey, Sir, the duty which I have to perform will, I am sure, commend itself to the acceptance of the Committee. There is no occasion upon which this House is more entirely the organ of the feelings of the nation than when it acknowledges the eminent services performed by those who have sacrified their time, their health, and even their lives in the public service; and the proposal which I am about to make is one that falls within
 1459 1460 1461
 MR. H. A. BRUCE : The Committee is summoned for Monday next, and then the necessary arrangements will be made.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, it was evident that in giving the undertaking which the noble Lord required, the Committee of Council were incurring the risk of being obliged to retain in a post of great importance an officer who, from his own statements and admissions, might have proved himself unworthy of the trust. At the same time he believed it had never been the practice of any department to allow one of its officers to suffer for evidence given by him with respect to the Acts of that department; and as, in the present case, it was important that in an inquiry affecting the character and honour of a department the evidence of an officer of that depart-
 1544
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  replied, that the arrangements for the improved accommodation of the married soldiers in different camps had in some cases been carried out, and in other cases were in course of being carried out. The arrangements which had been in operation
 1545
 LORD STANLEY  said, he felt bound to state that he did not understand his noble Friend to speak of him (Lord Stanley) in any other spirit than that of good humour, and he also wished to discuss the question in the same spirit. The House was indebted to his noble Friend for bringing forward the subject. He was the last person to deny that the manner in which the Private Bill legislation was conducted was capable of various amendments in detail. Faultfinding was easy; but the real question was, however, not whether the existing arrangements were perfect, but whether any other system could be substituted which would work better. As to the general dissatisfaction with which it was alleged the decisions of Committees were regarded, he could not admit it. It must be remembered that several rival interests were represented before a Committee, and it stood to reason that some of them must be defeated. Those parties whose hopes were disappointed not unnaturally left the Committee not particularly well pleased. What they had to consider was whether it was possible to transfer the decision of these cases from Parliament to any other tribunal. It was suggested that they might have a Board or Commission, which would be paid for its labours, would sit regularly, and would possess the advantage of greater experience and greater dispatch. But the next point was whether this Commission was to give judgment with or without an appeal. If there was to be an appeal, it must be to the House or to a Committee, and in either event he did not see what would be gained. In every case, involving important pecuniary interests,
 1558 1559 1560 1561
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, he concurred with a good deal of what had been said by the President of the Board of Trade, and by the noble Lord who had just sat down, upon this question. The Committees of the House of Commons with regard to private business, had assumed more and more the character of prophets than of judges. The facts were daily lessening, and the matter became one of speculation more than of judgment. He had reason to believe that if the House directed their rules to be more rigidly enforced, half of the burdens thrown upon Members would quickly disappear. It appeared from a return, that the sum lodged with the accountant general as deposits for railway schemes that year, amounted to £6,300,000. That was to be multiplied by 12½, to represent the capital involved in the decision of the Committees; so that nearly the sum of £80,000,000 was brought under the adjudication of Parliament. The first thing he would ask the House to consider was, how far the existing rules and regulations had been attended to. If their rules were not only not enforced, but were allowed to be set at defiance, he should feel little interest in any plan which might be proposed. They should first try what the enforcement of their rules would do before they rushed into a totally different and new system of proceeding. He dared to say the Committees did not give satisfaction to all parties, but he should be glad if in some respects they gave less satisfaction. If the present system should be found so bad as to be wholly incapable of enabling them to transact the business which came before them, then he would say reform it altogether. He thought the Chairmen of Committees, of whom he was one, might do something by coming to an understanding with each other on the subject of Standing Orders. At present, there seemed to be a considerable variation of opinion as to the degree in which
 1562
 MR. J. B. SMITH : Sir, I rise to move,
 "That the increasing trade and commerce of India, and the consequent increasing demand for a portable circulating medium, require that a gold currency should be established in that empire." 1574 1575 "That from time immemorial, until some years ago, India possessed a gold currency. That the superior convenience of this circulating medium is well understood by the natives of this country. That the transport of a bulky and cumbrous silver currency entails-constant and useless expense upon the country, and its consequent sluggish circulation is a serious impediment to trade. That India is not yet pre-
 1576 1577 On the Probable Fall in the Value of Gold, "The influx of silver on the discovery of America," he says, "caused a continuous decline in the price of wheat, until at the end of fifty years it required three ounces of silver to buy the same quantity of wheat which was previously bought with one ounce." 1578 s d s s 1579 
 
 Oz VALUE. 
 1858 2,555,263 £10,220,000 
 1859 2,280,525 
 1860 2,128,466 
 1861 1,978,864 
 1862 1,662,448 £6,642,624 1580 1581 1582
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, he would withdraw his Motion.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, in answer to the questions which have been put by my hon. Friend, I beg to inform him that Her Majesty's Government have decided upon issuing a Commission, one of the principal objects of which is, as my hon. Friend has stated, to consider whether it is not possible to erect a national system on the foundation of the old parochial system in Scotland, as amended by the School-masters Act of 1861. In considering the question, whether the Revised Code should be applied to Scotland in the interim until the Commissioners had presented their Report, there certainly did seem to be valid objections to such a course. The Revised Code came into operation on the 31st of March in the present year, and up to this time it has been applied to very few schools. It could hardly be justifiable to insist upon the immediate application of that Code to Scotland, seeing that the inquires of the Commissioners may result in the recommendation of a system of national education in Scotland for the working classes, which will differ not only from the Revised Code, but also from the system which was in operation before the Revised Code was adopted. For these reasons, Her Majesty's Government have consented to suspend the operation of the Revised Code until the Report of the Commissioners shall have been presented, on the understanding, however, that that Report shall be made within twelve months of the issue of the Commission. This suspension, however, will have reference only to the elementary schools, and not to the normal schools. With respect to the normal schools, to which the Minute of March last applies, there does not appear to be any reason why the same course should not be adopted with regard to them which is adopted with regard to the same class of schools in England.
 MR. MONTAGUE SMITH  said, he fully concurred in the proposition before the Committee, but he would venture to suggest that vast as were the advantages of the penny postage system, it had its disadvantages also, for it enable puffing
 1600
 MR. WHITE  said, the noble Lord had forgotten to deduct form his estimate of Post Office revenues the sum of £1,000,000 for packet services. That would reduce the net revenue to £790, 000. At the same time, he regarded the present pro-position as one of the most creditable acts of the present Government.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, he had been a witness to the dreadful accident which had occurred the other day on the South Western Railway. Two carriages were mixed up together, and three persons were entangled in the ruins. One was dead, and two were almost dead. They died before the eyes of the bystanders, who were unable to give them the least assistance. In the days of the road every coach or carriage used to carry a small tool-box in case of accident. If there had been ropes, hammers, and hatchets, by which the wreck might have been cleared away, two or three lives would have been saved. Could not the Inspectors of Railways of the Board of Trade insist upon some such apparatus being carried by every train assistance being rendered in the event of an accident.
 MR. PEEL  said, it was thought an improvement in the organization that the secretary should control the establishment—a duty which had formerly been discharged by the registrar. The office of registrar was, therefore, no longer required, and it was abolished, his duty of librarian being given to an officer of inferior salary.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said he was sorry that the constant attendance of the hon. Member was such an impediment to public business. He hoped the hon. Member would allow a fair chance of having the Estimates discussed.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he would remind the House that the Greek Government had undertaken to pay pensions to certain civil servants of Great Britain. He thought it was a strange proceeding to abandon a debt due from Greece, while at the same time we were leaving our public servants to the mercy of the Greek Government.
 MR. DUTTON  said, that although he did not go so far as the noble Lord, yet he could not think that Committees of the House were satisfactory tribunals to deal with these matters, except, indeed, so far as the honesty and integrity of purpose which they brought to bear upon the subject. It would be supposed that almost the first requisite of a tribunal to consider a railway Bill was great local knowledge, yet the Members of a Committee invariably came from different parts of the country, and thus could not bare the requisite local knowledge. It had been said, in reference
 1571
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he was sorry his hon. Friend so pertinaciously opposed the school of naval architecture, which had been generally called for by the public. The Government itself shared in that opinion, and the school in question had been projected by the Government in deference to the policy of the country, and because they themselves thought it would be productive of considerable advantage. A site for the school had been selected at South Kensington simply because it presented itself at the time, and because it presented itself at the time, and because the Admiralty were of opinion that it would be advisable on the score of economy to establish it there; but he did not mean to say that it should, therefore, be permanently fixed in that quarter. A very eligible site might pos-
 1594
 LORD HARRY VANE  said, his right hon. Friend the Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe) had placed the matter in so clear a light, and he concurred so fully in his right hon. Friend's observations, that he should not have thought it necessary to address the House, only that the great weight of authority seemed to be, not only against the proposition of the noble Lord the Member for Stamford, but also against any essential change in the present system, He concurred in thinking that the country was not so satisfied with the existing system, as some hon. Members seemed to suppose. A Select Committee was composed of Gentlemen some of whom might have a great knowledge of the subject to be considered, and others of whom might not have any knowledge of it at all. It was, therefore, an uncertain tribunal, and its decisions must be unsatisfactory, and lead to constant appeals to that House. He agreed with the President of the Board of Trade, that in a community like that of England, where opinions and interests were continually changing, it would be unwise to intrust to a fixed tribunal the powers adminis-
 1566
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education, Whether he will undertake that none of the witnesses who may be examined before the Committee on Inspectors' Reports shall suffer any prejudice to their official position and prospects, so far as the Council Office is concerned, on account of any evidence which they may give before that Committee?
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  rose to move—
 "That in the opinion of this House it, is expedient that the duty of ascertaining the facts upon which legislation in respect to Private Bills is to proceed should be discharged by some tribunal external to this House." 1546 1547 1548 "The great defect of the present system is that there is no single individual who appears before the Committee who has not a direct pecuniary interest in prolonging the proceedings." 1549 1550 Delirunt reges plectuntur Achivi. 1551
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he thought it would be useless to press his Motion in the then state of the House, and therefore he proposed to withdraw it.
 MR. DUNLOP  said, that in putting the Question of which he had given Notice relative to Education in Scotland, he wished to give his right hon. Friend the Vice President of the Committee of Council an opportunity of explaining to the House and the country the course which it was the intention of the Government to adopt with reference to a matter which had created the greatest interest in Scotland—theappointment of a Royal Commission to inquire into the subject of education in that country. A large body of the Members for Scotland had recently waited on the Lord President of Council, and strongly impressed upon him the anxious desire of the people of Scotland that Her Majesty's Government should issue a Royal Commission to inquire into the state of education in Scotland, not simply in reference to the narrow question of the into Scotland of the Revised Code, but to the subject of education at large, with a view of establishing a basis for restoring and extending the old national system of education in Scotland, and rendering it more efficient. They, at the same time, thought that if any such inquiry should be determined upon, it would only be just and right that the operation of the Revised Code should in the meantime be suspended in Scotland. That Code was adopted after an inquiry relating to England, without any reference whatever to Scotland; and, in many respects, it was not in accordance with the habits of the people. From the reception given to the deputation by the Lord President, they had strong reason to hope that the Government would give a favourable consideration to their application; and he now requested his right hon.
 1592
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, he understood the right hon. Gentleman opposite, the Secretary of State for India, last evening to state, when the question relative to Lady Elgin's pension was before the House, that pensions granted out of the Indian revenue are not submitted to Parliament. He would now beg to ask if there is not a provision in the Act of 1858 under which all pensions and charges on the Indian revenue are to be laid before Parliament within fourteen days.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he rose to move for copies of a communication made to the Admiralty by Sir W. Snow Harris on the organization of the proposed School of Naval Architecture. It was most important that the House should have every possible information on that subject. He objected to the Vote for the institution on the ground of its being placed at Kensington, and one of the principal reasons given for having it there was, that it afforded an opportunity of having a staff of professors; but it appeared that there was no such staff, and to provide them would render a large outlay necessary. Then they were told that they were suitable apartments available at Kensington, whereas the school was held in a ramshackle kind of shed. It was impossible to tell what the expense of the institution might be, and he wished to know whether the scheme for the institution had been submitted to the Treasury, and if it had investigated whether the system was likely to answer, and its probable cost?
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he wished to ask for some explanation of the increase which had taken place under the head the Board of Trade since 1859. A new office of Secretary of Marine Department, at a salary rising to £1,500 a year, had been created, and a new class of clerks called assistants to secretaries. It was not impossible that these new titles might have been introduced in order to get rid of some persons under the pretence that the offices to which they belonged had been abolished. Some information would likewise be acceptable as to the Meteorological Department. He wished to know what was the whole expense of the Meteorological Department. The weather returns were quite fallaeious, and it was a pity that they should be issued in their pre scutform, thereby deceiving the public.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he wished to ask for some explanation respecting the superannuations of the registrar and librarian of the Board of Trade.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, that Mr. Edgar Bowring, who filled the office of registrar and librarian, at a salary of £800 a year, had been superannuated at the age of thirty-eight on £426 per annum. Another gentleman had been appointed librarian at £456 a year. He should oppose the Vote unless some explanation could be given.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, take this opportunity of making an inquiry of the noble Lord at the head of the Government, with reference to the statement which he made last night respecting the continuance of the suspension of arms. understood that there was to be a further continuance of the suspension of hostilities for one fortnight, dating from to-morrow. wish to know to what day now the Conference is adjourned; and also whether the suspension of hostilities for the space of one fortnight was connected with any conditions which might account for that particular duration of the armistice?
 MR. NEATE  said, he had the honour of being private Secretary of the right hon. Baronet who had just addressed the House, at the time the scheme was brought forward; and he wished to state that his right hon. Friend, in the panegyric he had just bestowed on Sir Rowland Hill, had for gotten his own share in developing the plan. He hoped the House would not lose sight of the patronage which Sir Rowland Hill had received from his official superior.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, the question which his hon. Friend the Member for Stockport had brought before the Hose was very interesting and important and, from the attention which he had himself always paid to subjects of this nature, he felt a peculiar interest in it. When they came to discuss it in detail it would be found to be, perhaps, suited to the consideration rather of a scientific meeting that of the House of commons. There were, however, some general views on the subject which might be stated. He could not agree with his hon. Friend n his criticism on the paper currency of India. Two or three years ago the Government undertook to establish a Government paper circulation in India, in lieu of the partial circulation of private banks, which existed to the amount of about £3,000,000. Although the arrangements made in India for that purpose were so faulty that delay had occurred in extending the operation of the system, yet the present issue of paper amounted to about £5,000,000 in the Presidency towns. It was also not a little remarkable, that when there was great pressure at Bombay on account of the scarcity of coin, people were bringing in rupees in order to obtain paper in exchange. Measures had been taken to develop the system, and to establish centres of issue in the great centres of commerce in India, where a paper circulation would furnish a useful, safe, and convenient mode of conducting business. It was well known that bills of exchange were transmitted to a large extent from one part of India to another, and the Hindoos were remarkable clever in these commercial transactions; therefore, he saw no reason why they should not avail themselves in considerable degree of the facilities afforded by a paper circulation. He agreed with his hon. Friend, that the form of currency which existed in this country was the best. A gold standard coin of a certain fineness and weight, with subsidiary silver and copper coins, and a paper circulation of a limited amount on securities, and the remainder based on gold or silver in the banks. Whatever might be our own opinions, however, as to the best form of a
 1587 1588 1589 s 1590
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : No doubt the pension would be laid before Parliament. What he stated was, that it was not necessary that it should be submitted for the Vote of Parliament.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, as secresy was so little observed by other parties to the Conference that the intelligence communicated to that House yesterday was known at Berlin was telegraphed back to this country before it was communicated to the House, he felt relieved from any obligations with respect to reticence. He wished therefore to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether it is understood that no further extension of the armistice will be pressed upon Denmark by the British Government, in case the Conference should not come to a final agreement within the limits of the additional fortnight to which the duration of Conference is now extended?
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, it was a very remarkable thing that the practice should have sprung up of appointing Peers only to the office of Postmaster General, which was strictly of a commercial and mechanical character. The practice seemed to have grown up without any express warrant in the middle of last century, and he believed it to be a remnant of the old days of corruption in the department.
 MR. PUGH  said, he should have great pleasure in voting for the Resolution of the noble Lord. In a matter of this nature he would not have ventured to intrude his opinions on the, House, but having read with much attention the Reports of the Select Committee's of 1858 and 1863, and the best portion of the evidence, he collected than, the highest authorities, in, that House and out of it were unanimous in expressing a strong sense of the evils of the present system. Considerable changes had been made in consequence of the Report of the first Committee, and the question was
 1572 "The applause of listening senates to command Their lot forbade." "Sumite materiam vestris, qui scribitis, æquam, Viribus; et versate, diu, quid ferre recusant, Quid valeant humeri." 1573
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he could not support the Resolution ns it stood, as he was not prepared to give up the practice of taking  vivâ voce
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, the hon. Member, in advocating the proposal that silver coin-age should be supplemented by a gold one, was really aiming at establishing a double standard. No doubt it would be desirable to supplement the gold coinage by a silver one, but it would be difficult to do that without creating a double standard. He understood that the Natives of India would not take a sovereign because it contained
 1591
 MR. WHALLEY  said, the real question at issue in most of these Private; Bills, especially with regard to railways, was the question of competition between great companies; and if that could be settled, he believed: there would be no difficulty in acceding almost unanimously to the views which- the noble Lord- had so admirably expounded. The reason why the great companies were so unanimous infavour of the existing tribunal was because, owing to the expenditure and the great uncertainty of an appeal to Parliament, struggling enterprises were kept out of the field. The present system gave a virtual monopoly to the great companies, and seriously damaged the prospects of new local undertakings. Out of some£3,000,000 spent on new lines in the district with? which he was connected, he believed he was not exaggerating when he said that; an expenditure of £l,500,000 was due to the fact that-all these schemes had to pass, through Parliament. Money could rarely be raised for a local project in the district itself, and then it was necessary to apply for aid to contractors, engineers, and solicitors, who had no identity of interest with the district;, who assumed the management
 1569 1570
 MR. PAULL  said, the Motion had called forth many interesting speeches from Gentlemen well qualified to pronounce opinions on the subject, but the noble Lord would see that it could not be expected to do more. His proposal to have one tribunal to take evidence, and another to decide upon it, was one which the House would never adopt. The noble Lord (Lord R. Cecil) was in error in assuming that the House and the Government had not grappled earnestly with this Question. There was no subject which had commanded more attention from the painstaking and practical Members than that of Private Bill legis-
 1567 1568
 MR. J. A TURNER  said, that the people of Manchester felt the greatest respect for Sir Rowland Hill, and believed that he had conferred a benefit not only on them, but on the world. He was surprised at the objection s raised by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Lambeth. He was glad that the noble Lord the Prime Minister had come forward with a more liberal proposition than had originally been made by the Government. He was sure that if he had gone round the Exchange of Manchester he could have raised more for a tribute to Sir Rowland Hill's family than the pension originally proposed by the Government.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he wished to ask the noble Viscount at the head of the Government how it happened that Sir Rowland Hill always held a subordinate office, and was never made Postmaster General, an office which was reserved for Dukes and Earls? As Postmaster General he would have received £5,000 a year. In any other country in Europe, a man like Sir Rowland Hill would have been rewarded with such an appointment, and not been left in a subordinate post.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, that after the satisfactory and conclusive statement of his right hon. Friend he should not have trespassed on the attention of the House were it not for the peculiar course which had been taken by the noble Lore below him in recommending his Resolution to the House. He regretted that the noble Lord had not contented himself with pointing out the defects of the present system
 1556 1557
 MR. J. C. EWART , on behalf of the large mercantile community of Liverpool, said, that he desired to express his satisfaction at the proposal of the noble
 1598
 MR. MARSH  remarked that the hon. Member for Lambeth had mention that another gentleman had advocated the scheme cheap postage. It might be so; but the difference between Sir Rowland Hill and that gentleman was, that the one had succeeded in making hi suggestion a reality, while the other had not. It reminded him of the old story of Cobbett, who said, "I prophesied that, but never told anybody." The whole country would be grateful to the noble Viscount at the head of Her Majesty's Government for the proposition before the Committee.
 MR. RICHARD HODGSON  thought the decisions of Committees on Private Bills, although sometimes erroneous, were on the whole very satisfactory, and were much respected by the public. If an error was committed one Session, it could be remedied the next. No tribunal that he could imagine would pronounce decisions that would be equally satisfactory to the public Turning to the Motion of the noble Lord, he did not see how, as was suggested, it; would tend to save expense. True, the evidence as to the estimates connected with Private Bills might be taken by a Commission appointed by Government, or by, the House of Commons; but evidence of that kind was open to dispute, and would frequently be required to be given again before the Committee at a great addition to the expense. It was the great expense of these inquiries that the country objected to. The fees which parties who came before the Committees were obliged to pay had been beyond all measure extravagant. j, Something had already been done in the way of reducing those expenses, and he hoped that still more would be effected in that direction, for by that means much of the dissatisfaction entertained against Private Bill legislation would be removed.
 MR. MALINS  said that, as the representative of a small constituency, he wished to express his hearty concurrence in all that had fallen from the other side to the House with regard to the vote. The hon. Member for Lambeth had expressed an opinion that Sir Rowland Hill had been amply remunerated by his salary during past years and its continuance in the shape of a retiring allowance during his life and the life of Lady Hill; but by usage Sir Rowland Hill would have been entitle to tow thirds of his salary as a retiring allowance for his services if they had been of an ordinary character. Allusion had also been made by the hon. Member to the public subscription for Sir Rowland Hill. In a great commercial country a gentleman often realized an enormous fortune for some happy thought and invention. Why, then, should not Sir Rowland Hill, who had conferred immense benefit, not only on this country, but on the whole civilized world, receive a moderate remuneration for his scheme? He trusted that Sir Rowland Hill would not only receive the sum proposed by the noble viscount, but that the example would be followed by the whole civilized world.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, it was hardly necessary that further testimony should be given of the estimation in which Sir Rowland Hill's services were held; but representatives of large commercial communities
 1599
 MR. LOWE  said, that he had the greatest respect for the Committees of that House, the Members of which discharged a most onerous and ungrateful duty with great ability and the greatest integrity; but he did not think that full justice had
 1563 Nisi prius 1564 nisi prius. 1565
 MR. GREGSON  said, he wished to quote the following passage from a congratulatory address of the East India and China Association, to show the appreciation in which his services were held:—
 "We beg leave to offer to your Lordship our cordial congratulations on the distinguished success which has crowned your exertions as Her Majesty's High Commissioner and Minister Plenipotentiary to the Court of Pekin, by the conclusion of a treaty which, when fully in operation, will secure to Her Majesty's subjects a commercial intercourse of the greatest importance with that vast empire. Tour Lordship's similarly successful negotiations with Japan, and the prospect; of the early opening of her commerce to British and European enterprise, no less demand oar acknowledgments and our congratulations. Trusting that your Lordship may speedily witness and long enjoy the satisfaction of contemplating the complete success of your labours in that increase of our national prosperity which they are so eminently calculated to promote, we have the honour to be, with the highest consideration and respect, your Lordship's most obedient servants." "The treaties recently concluded with China and Japan have in a great measure removed the obstacles to intercourse between those countries and the world, without which the jealousy, exclusiveness, and apprehensions of their despotic Governments had created. To the attainment of this end the efforts of diplomacy have been directed with some success; but its action extends no further; it rests with our merchants and manufacturers to complete the work by turning these; new facilities to account, and establishing mutually beneficial relations between England and those countries, inhabited as they are by populations numerous, industrious, and commercially disposed.… For my own part, I have only to say that it is my sincere desire to continue to co-operate with you in the noble work of extending the blessings of commerce and Christian civilization to those remote and interesting regions of the earth."
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the increase had arisen from various causes, and especially from changes made in the organization of the office, with a view to render it more efficient. It was true that some new places had been created, but some old places had been abolished. One principal cause of the increase of expenditure had been the increased amount of business which the Board had had to perform. There had been a considerable transfer of new business from the Admiralty in reference to harbours, and an increased establishment was therefore necessary. The whole increase was £3,363 over 1863–4; but this increase was absolutely necessary from the causes he had mentioned. As to the meteorological predictions, nobody, of course, pretended that Admiral Fitzroy had always foretold the weather, but no great storm had occurred which he had not foretold. The science of meteorology was at present experimental, and this was perfectly well understood by the House and the country. The experience gamed by Admiral Fitzroy had been most useful, but sufficient time had not elapsed to enable the House to decide whether the establishment was of such a character as entitle it to be permanently supported by a vote of the House.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the office of registrar had been abolished by the recommendation of the Treasury. The office of librarian was now discharged by a subordinate, at a reduced salary. In respect to the observations of the hon. and gallant Member for Limerick (Colonel Dickson), in reference to the late railway accident, he had to observe that the power of the inspectors was small as regarded the general management of railways. All the inspectors could do in regard to the inspectors could do in regard to the late accident was to hold an inquiry. That inquiry was being held, and he was bound to say that the railway authorities furnished every facility for the most thorough investigation. That accident might no doubt be the means be the means of adopting some such precautionary measures as the hon. and gallant Member suggested.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he entirely concurred with the noble Lord in the description he had given of the labours hon. Members of that House had to perform during the Session in connection with private legislation. No doubt, the duties of representatives of the people of this country, both in reference to public and private business, must be heavy and laborious. The business of law-making in a country like this could not be done without labour or without great sacrifices. Law-making must be founded on deliberate and anxious inquiries—and private Bill legislation was a form of law-making. It was, in fact, the making of exceptional laws for cases which were not provided for by the general law of the country. If the general law of the country could be reduced to such a form that everybody could do those things now requiring special legal sanction under certain conditions laid down beforehand, there would be no need for Private Bill legislation; but until that could be done, Parliament was obliged to pass exceptional laws for particular cases, and he was one of those who believed that these exceptional powers ought to be given only by Parliament. They were matters of judgment, discretion, and expediency; and it was for Parliament to consider, after an investigation of its own, whether the facts made out justified it in rejecting or passing the proposals made to it. The noble Lord had hardly fairly described the qualities of Members of that House for deciding
 1552 "That having regard to the character of the questions which arise on the consideration of contested Private Bills, your Committee is disposed to concur with the view entertained by the majority of the witnesses, that no court of inquiry could be constituted for the purpose of investigating such questions which, on the whole, would be so satisfactory to the public as Committees composed of the Members of the Houses of Parliament." 1553 "That in the opinion of this House it is expedient that the duty of ascertaining the facts upon which legislation in respect of Private Bills is to proceed should be discharged by some tribunal external to the House." 1554 1555
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he could hold out no hope of any change in the constitution of the Pay Office. An alteration would only entail expense, without affording any advantage upon the present system which was a good one.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Baronet need be under no apprehension that the Consolidated Fund would suffer. It was a mere question of foregoing a portion of a claim upon the Greek Government. The protecting Powers had agreed to forego each the payment of £4,000 a year from Greece, and the Resolution would but relieve Greece from remitting that amount annually to this country.
 MR. COX  said, he should move to report Progress, and he was resolved to divide the Committee upon the Motion. He had been in the House until two o'clock on the previous day, and he had been there also from twelve o'clock on the previous day until the present hour (twelve o'clock).
 MR. COX  said, he should be sorry if the feeling of the metropolis on this subject were supposed to be represented by the hon. Member for Lambeth. He was quite sure there was not a man in the metropolis who would not approve of the Vote. As to the subscription to Sir Rowland Hill, he was fully entitled to it. He thought it a gracious way of acknowledging the dept of gratitude they were all under to Sir Rowland Hill for the suggestion that he made, and for the ability with which he carried it into effect.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he considered the subject one of very considerable importance and interest both to England and India; for it involved this question—how England was to pay for the annual debt she incurred to India for the sugar, cotton, tea, coffee, indigo, and other commodities she received from that country? The imports received from India had been from year to year increasing from £10,672,862 in 1854, to £34,133,551 in 1861, and to £48,434,517 in 1863, while the exports from England had
 1583 1584 s 1585 "I have been thinking over the question of a gold currency for India, and have looked at the various regulations as given in  Prinsep's Tables "I imagine that any gold coinage struck for general acceptance in India must be quite pure, or at least as free from alloy as was the Greek gold, and that you could not expect the Natives to accept a gold coinage which was alloyed at all in the manner or degree that your present rupees are." 1586
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he would take that occasion to call attention to the unsatisfactory mode in which the business of the House was being conducted, as if the voting away of the public money was only a matter of secondary importance. Night after night hon. Member had to remain until between eleven and twelve o'clock before the Government go into Committee of Supply, and then millions of money were voted away ultimately at hours when many Members had been obliged to leave the House. There were no less that twenty-two Motions on the paper to-night, on the Motion for going into Committee of Supply.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that the Vote for the Board of Trade contained a greater
 1602
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that no one more highly estimated the great services of Sir Rowland Hill than he did; but it ought to be remembered that he was not the only person who was concerned in carrying out the change in the postal system. The late Mr. Wallace, almost night after night, urged the subject upon the attention of that House, and did more to introduce the plan to the country than Sir Rowland Hill. No doubt great services ought to be rewarded; but years ago there had been a large subscription raised for Sir Rowland Hill, and he thought that and the pension were a sufficient recompense for his services, especially as the Post Office had yielded a very large revenue, whereas at present he did not think it paid its expenses.
 MR. BAINES  said that, representing a large constituency, he fully believed that the whole mercantile interests of the country would most heartily concur in the proposition of the noble Viscount in proposing a liberal grant. The hon. Member for Lambeth had stated that Mr. Wallace had proposed a similar scheme many years before it was propounded by Sir Rowland Hill. [Mr. W. WILLIAMS: Not before.] The pamphlet of Sir Rewland Hill was one of the most consummate pieces of inductive reasoning he ever read, and it produced an effect which it was impossible for the Government of the day to resist. The measure was an exceedingly bold one. It proposed to reduce the postage from a shilling, and in some cases a larger amount, to a penny. That was thought most extravagant; yet it was proved by Sir Rowland Hill that the public revenue would be recouped by the increase of the correspondence that would ensue. And that had been doe by the most extraordinary success that attended the measure. He believed the advantages of the scheme were altogether inestimable; and it extended not to England alone, but to the whole civilized world. Therefore, with the greatest pleasure, he supported the Motion for conferring that handsome grant on the family of a distinguished man.
 MR. WATKIN  said, that the right hon. Baronet had not attempted to answer the question of his hon. Friend the Member for Stockport, but perhaps he had misunderstood the effect of the Motion. He had argued as if the proposal was to substitute a good for the existing silver circulation in India. What the Motion before the House really meant was that, in as much as the silver circulation was deficient, it should be augmented by the establishment of a gold circulation, in order that the increasing requirements of trade and commerce might be fairly met. But the right hon. Barenst had assumed that there was no gold coin but the British sovereign to supplement the Indian coinage. He (Mr. Watkin) thought that the use of the gold did not depend so much on the relative values of god and silver as on the size of the coin which would be introduced. Hon. Members who travelled in France knew the great convenience afforded by the introduction of a little gold coin, worth five frances, instead of the old silver five-franc pieces. If the right hon. Baronet would address himself to the question, whether he could not coin a gold piece representing a two-shilling piece, he might, without any destruction to trade, being in a useful coin into the British dominions in India.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, having been Chancellor of the exchequer at the time Sir Rowland Hill introduced his scheme, he wished to hear his testimony to the value of the services of that eminent public servant. The difficulties were great and at the time there was a strong feeling against it in many quarters, but Sir Rowland Hill, by his calm good sense, intelligence, and good humour, encountered and overcame them all.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether the promise made in the last Session of Parliament, that the quarters of the married soldiers at Aldershot should be separated, has been carried into effect?
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he would suggest that Friday night should be given up to general discussions, and that for the remainder of the Session the House should go into Committee of Supply on Mondays and Thursdays without the interpositions of any other questions.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, that the duties of the Paymaster General were performed by deputy, and he wished to know if any change were contemplated by the Government in reference to that department of the army?
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  wished to know how the Consolidated Fund was affected by the Resolution. If he understood the Resolution, it seemed that there was a euro of.£4,000 a year which we claimed against the Greek Government, and which was now to be handed over to the King of the Greeks as a present.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I should be glad to know when the Committee is likely to sit, as understand the noble Lord (Lord Robert Cecil) and the Lord Advocate have been appointed assessors. It is well known that the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate is daily engaged in the Yelverton appeal case, and should like to know if the Committee is to await the settling of that appeal, or whether any arrangement has been made.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I may be able to answer any question of fact, as, for instance, with respect to the extent of the armistice; but really am not able to give an answer as to what the Conference may do in cases which are yet to come.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, cannot at the present moment say why the suspension of hostilities was limited to that particular period. That particular dura-
 1543
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I trust that the Committee will be disposed to concur, without any objection, in the recommendation which Her Majesty has been graciously pleased to make. Sir Rowland Hill is a man of great genius, of great sagacity, of great perseverance and industry, and he has rendered important service to this country, and I may say to other countries also. He formed the opinion, in which I concur, that the Post Office was more properly a department for the performance of service that for the mere collection of revenue; and with a boldness which staggered a great number of persons who had not looked at the matter form the same point of view, he recommended a very large reduction in the rate of postage with the confidence that it would in the end bring up the revenue to the same amount to which it had previously stood, and would in the meantime confer great benefit upon the community. Grave doubts were entertained, many people thought that he was too sanguine in his calculations, and that, although the number of letter might increase, the increase would not be sufficient to make the revenue recover the great shock which the introduction of the penny postage would inflict upon it. Those anticipations have been falsified, and the calculations of Sir Rowland Hill have turned out to be correct. Sir Rowland Hill had for nearly a quarter of a century performed, with some slight interval, the arduous duties which have devolved upon him in connection with the scheme, and he is now at a time of life when his health must have suffered to his office. The Treasury have on that ground given him permission to retire, and have done that which I am sure this House will not think too much—they have given him his fully salary for life. He is now, I believe, in the seventieth year of his age, and his health has been shattered by the labours which he has had to perform. Under these circumstances, Her Majesty thought that this House would be of opinion that the great services which he has performed would recommend him for a grant which should enable him to make those
 1596 s. d 1597
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : There si one very good reason why it would not have been an advantage to Sir Rowland Hill to have made him Postmaster General, it is, that he would not have received any increase of salary while he held the office, but would have to go out with a
 1601
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he regretted as much on his hon. Friend could do that such impediments should be cast in the way of the discussion of the Estimates, but the Government had no power to prevent it. It was quite natural that hon. Members should desire to call the attention of the House to subjects in which they felt an interest; but, considering the advanced period of the Session, and the great number of votes which remained to be taken, he trusted that they would exercise a little more forbearance as to putting down Motions on going into Supply.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, if this Vote were passed the Government would consent to Progress being reported.
 SIR BROOK BRYDGES  said, he rose to second the Amendment. While the existing companies had only, one square mile and a half under beds, the company by which the Bill was projected proposed to take for the purpose as many as nine square miles.
 MR. WYKEHAMARTIN  paid, that by the 8 & 9  Vict
 MR. COWPER  said, in reply, that, in order to make his answer intelligible, it was necessary that he should say a few words in explanation, for which he hoped to have the indulgence of the House. There would be no difficulty, he apprehended, in the re-moral of the Royal Academy to Burlington House. The Royal Academy were in possession of a considerable capital, which they had accumulated from the proceeds of their annual exhibitions, and they were prepared to spend a portion of it in providing a permanent gallery whenever they might have the opportunity of doing so. They would be prepared to build a sufficient gallery upon the Burlington House site with, he believed, only one stipulation,; which was that they should have an entrance in Piccadilly, and the expense of a building which would be suitable for their purposes would be somewhere about £80,000. If, on the other hand, they had been permitted to occupy the whole of the building in Trafalgar Square, they would not, of course, have expected that that gum of £80,000 would have remained in their pockets, but they would have contributed it any way which the Government might have required, either as a credit towards the expense of the new National Gallery, or in embellishing architecturally the facade of the building in Trafalgar Square. It seemed to be immaterial to the Royal Academy whether they went or stayed; so that, as regarded them, no great difficulty existed. But as regarded the interests of the public there were certain considerations which required a good deal of attention. The building, supposing the Royal Academy should at once vacate the room which they possessed for exhibition, would not be large enough properly to exhibit the whole of the pictures which belonged to the trustees of the National Gallery. The apartments now occupied by the Royal Academy were about 7,000 superficial feet of floor area, which was not actually so large as the rooms at South Kensington, which were at present occupied by the Vernon, Jacob Bell, and other collections of British artiste, and consequently even if the rooms now possessed by the Royal Academy would suffice to enable the pictures at South Kensington to be united to the rest of the gallery, they could not also provide for the better Arrangement and hanging of those pictures, which were now so greatly crowded in their temporary position in the present National Gallery. Any one who had visited
 1638 1639
 MR. COWPER  said, he had never seen Sir Charles Barry's plans, and as far as he could learn they never had been sent to the department. The plans of Mr. Wilkins were mentioned before the Committee of 1848. [Mr. HENRY SEYMOUR: The Committee of 1836.] But he was quite ignorant whether there was any foundation for the statement alluded to. There was no record of the matter in the Office of Works, and he was totally unable to give any information on the subject.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE , in reply, said, there could be no doubt that a very large and unnecessary loss of life resulted from neglect of the provisions of the Vaccination Act. The right hon. Gentleman was of course aware that, although the Vaccina-
 1641
 MR. PEEL  said, the Government did not propose to make any change in the Board of Public Works in Ireland at present. Sir R. Griffiths, who held the position of its chairman, and who had several other important public duties to perform, was desirous of resigning a portion of his offices, the labours of which at his advanced age he found to be somewhat too heavy, and a Bill had been introduced by the Government for the purpose of making it sufficient if the Commission of Public Works consisted of two persons only, instead of three, as required by law. That Bill had, however, been abandoned, it having been considered that a better course would be that Sir R. Griffiths should retire from the chairmanship; that one of the two remaining Commissioners should be appointed to that office, and that Sir R. Griffiths should act as an ordinary Commissioner. His colleagues would thus continue to have the benefit of his advice, and the arrangement would, he thought, be found to be generally satisfactory, besides rendering it unnecessary to make any change in the law.
 MR. PEEL  said, that a Commission was at present inquiring into the subject of the Deep Sea Fisheries, and there was no intention to change the existing arrangements before its report was received.
 MR. PEEL  said, the principle upon which the legal Commissioner was paid only £350 per annum was this. In the case of the legal member of the Fisheries Commission for Scotland, his salary was limited by the Scotch Act to three guineas per day, and not more than £350 per annum, and the Home Office recommended to the Treasury that a similar limit should be applied in Ireland. When Mr. Morris was appointed, the Government did not know the full extent of the responsibility that was to devolve upon him. An application had been made to the Treasury for an increase of salary, but it was desirable not to revise it until they had had further opportunities of considering
 1672
 THE CHAIRMAN  rose and said, that he must remind the Committee that the discussion was irregular, as it referred to an item in the Vote that had been passed.
 MR. PEEL  explained that the duties of the Commissioners were not only with regard to tithe, but to inclosures of land as well, and were very heavy.
 MR. PEEL  said, the Commission was required to advertise, and, therefore, the newspapers were necessary. It also sent agents over the country, and, therefore, needed railway guides.
 MR. J. A. SMITH  said, he wished to know if there was any prospect of the Commissions terminating.
 MR. PEEL  said, the same persons filled both Commissions. The Public Works Loan Commission had a sum of £360,000 advanced annually out of the Consolidated Fund, of which £60,000 went for works in Ireland; latterly they had also the further annual sum of £250,000 to advance for improvements of harbours. All these advances were repaid by instalments. The West India Islands Relief Commission was appointed under an Act of  Will 1675
 MR. PEEL  said, the Public Works Loan Commissioners some years ago advanced £250,000 to construct roads in South Wales, the repayment of which was spread over a period of years. These instalments had been regularly paid, and there were still twelve years over which the repayment would extend. The business of the superintendent was to superintend the financial operations of the county Boards, to make out the estimate for the repair of the roads, and to see that the sum required for the payment of the instalments was duly provided for. The office of superintendent would be abolished when the whole of the loan had been repaid.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, the money was borrowed some years ago; and it was the duty of the superintendent to see that the roads were not starved, and that the proper preparations were made, when necessary, for providing the money necessary
 1676
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  stated, that there were no less than 50,000 charities in Great Britain, with an income of nearly £3,000,000; and that no officers could perform their arduous duties with greater industry and zeal than those in whose favour the Vote was sought.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he rose to ask for an explanation of the Vote. The Keeper of the Records in Dublin received a salary of £400 a year. Who was he?
 MR. PEEL  said, there used to be an auditor of the Land Revenues who had charge of the records. The office was abolished, the accounts were transferred to the Board of Audit, and the office of Keeper of the Records was created. It was connected with the sale and purchase of the Crown lands.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he wished to know whether the Keeper of the Records was Mr. Harding?
 MR. PEEL  said, he did not know the name of the officer in question.
 MR. ESMONDE : The answer is,  Non mi ricordo
 COLONEL DUNNE : The Secretary to the Treasury just now told us it was not Mr. Harding.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Peel) had brought into the discussion matters which might be analogous, but which certainly were not relevant. The right hon. Gentleman claimed credit for the Government that they had saved £100,000 in the matter of prosecutions; but every one knew that that attempt at saving had been the cause of much greater mischief. Since the cutting down of the allowance to witnesses, it was almost impossible to get a second conviction. Constables, gaolers, and others who could prove former convictions against thieves were oftentimes troubled with very short memories, because they knew that in giving proof their expenses would not be adequately defrayed. That was the result of the economy—not economy, but parsimony—of the hon. Gentleman. It was a mean and nasty exercise of power not founded on right or reason, but on the principle of "We won't pay." Hence thieves got off, and there was more expense incurred in the end. Nothing could be more unfair than the conduct of the Treasury with regard to the immediate question under discussion, for what did the right hon. Gentleman say? His argument was that he had learned that certain coun-
 1685
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that there were other cases in which Ireland by local taxation paid for what in England was paid for out of the national purse.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, the Procurator Fiscal in Scotland is the public prosecutor for the county. He acts directly under the instructions of the Sheriff; and his duty is, in case of death under suspicious circumstances being reported to him, to cause an inquiry to take place, and, if he sees fit, to apply to the Sheriff for a warrant of examination, or to apprehend in case of suspicion attaching to any one. If the matter be serious, and there seems to be sufficient ground for proceedings, he reports the examination to the Lord Advocate or his Deputies. It is under the Sheriff's warrant that all these proceedings take place. His duty is to take precognitions, which are not generally taken on oath, and the Advocate Depute either indicts or takes the advice of the Lord Advocate. The proceeding differs from that of a coroner's inquest. The investigation is not public in the first instance, but takes place under judicial responsibility, and ultimately under the responsibility of the Lord Advocate. stated the other evening, and expressed the view of those most competent to form a judgment on the subject, that although it is quite true that these investigations before trial are not public, they are in many instances a great advantage—indeed, they are a double benefit. In the first place, they secure, I
 1687
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : In cases of sudden death, there are instructions from Crown Counsel or from the Lord Advocate to the Procurator Fiscal to make inquiry. In other cases, complaint is usually made to the Procurator Fiscal.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : The inquiry is not public until the, whole investigation has taken place. It is confined to the department of the Public Prosecutor.
 MR. WHITE SIDE  asked whether it was intended to bring in a measure for the regulation of the duties of the Sheriffs Substitute and the Sheriffs Depute? He had received a very well Written pamphlet on the subject.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : I may remind the right hon. and learned Gentleman that in 1853 the whole of this subject received the most careful consideration before a Select Committee; and the Act of 1857, which now regulates the Sheriffs Courts, was based on the Report of that Committee. believe the Act has given general satisfaction, and it is not my intention to propose any alteration in it.
 MR. WHITE SIDE  said, that some of the Judges of the Court were quite unnecessary, and that the first opportunity should be taken of reducing their number.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Af-
 1640 "That he, Sir Frederick Bruce, must decline to allow Officers of Her Majesty's Army to take any part in Military operations further than may be necessary for the protection of British interests, and his first step consequently will be to desire that Major Gordon and others serving with him at Shanghai', shall not pass the boundary described as the thirty-mile radius."
 MR. LIDDELL : Was that sanctioned by Sir Frederick Bruce?
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that the estimate was founded on the expenditure of the past year. The correspondence was increasing in every department, as greater information was required from public officers.
 LORD LOVAINE  said, there could be no doubt that the original compact, when the counties were induced, or rather com-
 1683
 MR. O'REILLY  observed, that when similar loans were advanced in Ireland it was not found necessary to have a superintendent to recover the debts.
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  requested some explanation as to the purposes to which the money was devoted, and what the Commissioners did.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, that if the office was connected with the sale and purchase of the Crown lands exclusively, it ought to be a charge against the revenues of the Woods and Forests.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, that this Vote was constantly increasing. While the expense of the printing of papers ordered by Parliament amounted only to about £17,000, the cost of papers laid upon the table "by command," as it wag called — that is, by the departments when they wish to conceal the printing done for themselves, was no less than £15,000. A paper moved for by the hon. Member for Edinburgh, and printed only last April, contained a Treasury Minute relative to the slovenly manner in which the departments sent their papers to the printer. It was a shame after all the competitive examinations which they had, that the departments could not be got to turn out their papers in a correct form, and that the public should be saddled on that account with an expense which on the computation of the Controller of the Stationery Department amounted to £15,000.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he should oppose the Vote, as the people of South Wales ought to support their own roads, and pay for their superintendence.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he had every reason to believe it was sanctioned by him.
 MR. LAYARD , in reply, said, he must beg to refer the hon. Gentleman to the blue-books laid on the table of the House on the "Affairs of China," Nos. 31 to 37, from which it would be seen under what authority Major Gordon took the command of Chinese troops. The authority was given by Brigadier Staveley on condition that Major Gordon should retire on half-pay. And by the Order in Council and other instructions, officers retiring on half-pay were permitted under certain circumstances to take service beyond the thirty mile radius.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he was not generally favourable to the guarantee of Colonial loans by the Imperial Government, but he thought it must be confessed that the present case 'of New Zealand was exceptional, and that there were great objects at stake which might induce the House to enter into the proposed guarantee. He wished to know whether the Government were about to give a guarantee for a loan of £3,000,000, or for a loan of £1,000,0.00, and what the two sums were required for? He thought they should consider the great difficulties of the colony, and that the Government had been
 1697
 MR. BUXTON  said he would remind the House that a Committee of the House of Lords, after a very minute inquiry, reported in favour of the Bill. He thought that the objections which had been raised could be better discussed in committee.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he wished to notice that in the postage for inland letters there was a jump from 2 d d d
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would take upon himself the responsibility of moving the rejection of the Vote.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, the surplus in question was paid in after all general expenditure bad been satisfied, and as the loan was to be a first charge on the revenues of New Zealand, the whole sum was available as security. It was not expected that it would be necessary to maintain anything like 4,000 troops in New Zealand.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that If the Resolution was agreed to that night and
 1696
 MR. CARDWELL  replied, that no such information had been received.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that documents upon the subject of the state of New Zealand and the progress of the war had recently been laid on the table, and that morning papers had been circulated containing a correspondence which showed at full length the reasons which had induced him to make the proposal he was about to submit to the Souse. Considering, therefore, the lateness of the hour, he would
 1691 "I received General Carey's despatch this morning. He states that 101 Maories have been
 1692 "Colonel Carey deserves great credit for the clever manner in which he succeeded in surrounding them." "This action, so disastrous to the Natives, will, I sincerely trust, prove one great means of bringing this lamentable war to a conclusion. From the last telegram have sent, you will find that one of its results has already been that the Natives have abandoned the position at Manugatautari, which the Lieutenant General was preparing to attack." 1693 1694 1695
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he really did not think that at that time of night (twenty minutes to one o'clock) he ought to enter on that branch of the question.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, it was an inconvenience which landed proprietors had to submit to, but he trusted the nuisance would be removed.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, that no expenses ought to be incurred in reference to these offices than what would be absolutely necessary.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he should be very sorry to see any curtailment of the information given to the House and to the public.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he wished to know what saving had been effected in the Stationery Department in consequence of the reduction of the paper duty. It was stated by the controller, that the moderation of the present estimate was owing, in a great degree, to the reduction of that duty, but the amount was larger this year than in the preceding year.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he wished to ask what was the reason the sum for the postage of the Admiralty had increased from £13,945 to £17,000?
 MR. WHALLEY  said, that he had seen in New Zealand newspapers a statement that Sir George Grey; the Governor of New Zealand, had Said that the outbreak had originated and been sustained by the influence of the Roman Catholic priests. He mentioned that in order that the right hon. Gentleman might inform the House whether he had received from Sir George Grey any communication to that effect.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he must remind the right hon. Gentleman that he had not answered his question.
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, that his hon. and gallant Friend who had just sat down had laboured to make unintelligible what, in fact, was a very simple question. His hon. Friend the Member for Dumbartonshire complained that a treaty made with a Native Prince had been violated., Her Majesty, on assuming the direct administration of the Government of India, issued a solemn proclamation stating that all the treaties made by the East India Company with Indian Princes should be faithfully and scrupulously maintained. The question, therefore, before the House involved the honour of the Crown, and was one in which the House was deeply interested. What was the view taken of the treaty by the East India Company when it was first signed? Immediately after the signature of the treaty the Government of India published a proclamation addressed to all the great Chiefs and high Officers of the Carnatic, warning them to pay due allegiance and obedience to the East India Company, which was about to assume the government of that country by virtue of a compact made with the lawful Sovereign of
 1662 1663 1664
 MR. H. R. GRENFELL : No doubt the memorandum existed; but it was not made official with the responsibility which would have attached if the Bake of Wellington had been a party to the transaction. For these reasons he opposed the Motion. The position which the present Government of India occupied towards that which had preceded it greatly resembled the position occupied by Lords Cornwallis and Canning towards the Marquess of Wellesley and Lord Dalhousie, Those noble Lords went out with the express intention of adopting a more conciliatory policy than had been pursued by their predecessors, but they did not give up the conquests which bad been made, or the provinces which had been annexed by them. So ought the Crown to act now that it had assumed the government of India. It ought not to abandon any of the provinces which were subject to its sway, or shrink from the responsibilities incurred, but to do all that was possible to conciliate the Princes who remained, and the people who paid to it so vast a revenue.
 MR. H. R. GRENFELL : The greatest part of it.
 MR. H. R. GRENFELL  said, that he did not say that he accepted the grant,
 1657 Lighter
 MR. H.R. GRENFELL  said, that having examined the different Motions which had been submitted to the House on the subject, he found that the Motion of the hon Gentleman opposite differed from that of tire hon. and learned Member for Suffolk (Sir FitzRoy Kelly) which was discussed last year; and he thought the hon. Gentleman had acted wisely in taking that course. The Motion proposed last year prayed for an inquiry, not merely into the claims of Azeem Jah, bat into the circumstances which Jed "to the Treaty of 1801. But this year the Motion was for an inquiry into the circumstances which fed to the breach of that treaty. The Motion this year was more prudent than the; speech with which it was introduced, for he could not conceive any Circumstances more telling against the "claims of Azeem Jah than an investigation into the events which led to the treaty. It was clear to him that Azeem Jah had; not suffered either in his position from any wrongs inflicted by the Government. His father Azeem ul Dowlah was removed from that unfortunate position which the uncles and younger brothers of a Prince on the Musnud usually occupied in Mahomedan so vereignties, and was placed in the enjoyment of the throne of the Carnatic. He was placed oft the mock throne of the Carnatic, and but for that he would probably have passed his life in prison, and if his son and grandson had succeeded him it was very probable Azeem Jah would have Spent his life in prison. Therefore he maintained that so far from Azeem Jah having suffered wrong he had enjoyed the protection of the British Government, and had thus been enabled to use; or misuse, as might be, the privileges which accompanied his high rank and position. He would not he might add, follow the hon. Gentleman into the observations which he had made with respect to the Minute of Lord Harris, to which he had called attention. It would be the duty of the right horn Gentleman the Secretary for India to defend Lord Harris, but he might
 1656
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman, Whether there is any objection to produce the plans prepared by order of the Government by the late Sir Charles Barry, and also those of Mr. Wilkins, showing the plan of the barracks as intended to form galleries in the National Gallery, if the building were ever extended?
 MR. CHILDERS , in reply, said, the Government had received a proposal from a company for the construction of a dock at the end of Esquimalt Bay, and asking for certain water rights, and offering that Her Majesty's ships should have access- to the dock. Under certain restrictions with regard to the powers of the Indian Council, those rights had also stated the number of ships that had also state the umber of ships that would in all probability use that dock. There was no other proposal at present on the subject, but there was a committee now sitting upon the docks for the use of the Navy, both at home and abroad, before which the matter wound come.
 MR. BUTT  said, he wished to call attention to the fact that, whilst the Inspecting Commissioner of Fisheries received £600 per annum, the legal member of the Board, who had to discharge very important judicial functions with regard to the rights of property which yielded £200,000 a year, had only £350 a year salary. Questions of vast importance to the owners of property came before him for decision, and he knew of an instance where an eminent Irish barrister was taken before him to plead at a fee of 150 guineas, with appropriate refreshers. He thought the salary was ridiculously low for the discharge of such important duties. He should move the reduction of the Vote by £500, in order to bring the question before the Committee.
 MR. BUTT  remarked, that the Board of Works was one of the most unpopular institutions in Ireland, and the reason why it was so was, that there was no real responsibility. He thought the arrangement stated to be in contemplation amounted to an evasion of the Act of Parliament, which required that there should be three Commissioners, for it was evident that Sir R. Griffiths was to be merely a consulting member of the Board.
 MR. BUTT  said, that in that case he would withdraw his Amendment, and raise the discussion on the Report.
 MR. BUTT  said, to constitute a Keeper of Records there must be two things — records to be kept and a man to keep them. But the Attorney General for Ireland had never heard of those records, for the keeping of which the House was asked to vote £1,000 a year.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that the appointment of examiner in chief was in the hands of the Master of the Rolls; and that Judge, believing that there could be no worse mode of taking evidence than by an examiner sitting in a back room, would not appoint anybody to that office, which was vacant. He (Mr. Whiteside) wished to know whether it was intended to persevere in this mode of taking evidence?
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, it by no means satisfied him. He wanted to know whether the practice of taking evidence in writing was to be continued?
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that the law of judgments in Ireland was in a very confused and unsatisfactory state, and he hoped the system in Ireland would be assimilated to that of England after the Committee upstairs had reported.
 MR. WHITESIDE : The inquiry before the Procurator is private?
 MR. WHITESIDE : Do the Procurators Fiscal act of their own motion, or are instructions issued to them?
 MR. WHITESIDE  inquired what was the precise nature of the duties of a Procurator Fiscal? He wished to know whether they were analogous to the duties of a coroner in England?
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he thought that some stop ought to be put to the publication of the "Black List," which inflicted a great deal of injustice upon some parties.
 MR. BLAKE  said, he regretted to learn that Mr. Eden, one of the ablest members of the Commission, whose judgments were marked by signal ability, only received £100 for his labours in Ireland, over and above the salary of £500, which he received for the duties in England that he still continued to discharge.
 MR. BLAKE  said, he wished to have some information from the Government with respect to the office of Inspector of Fisheries in Ireland. He had himself been the
 1671
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he could not but complain that no Member of the Irish Government was present during the discussion of the Estimates relating to Ireland, especially as there was a Motion of the hon. Member for Limerick county on the books complaining of a failure of justice. It had been stated that the legal Commissioner only received £350, and there ought to be some explanation given in respect to this matter, for a very exceeding failure of justice was said to have taken place. Decisions had been given involving hundreds of thousands of pounds, and it now appeared that those decisions were illegal. In fact, the gentleman who had given them, and who had been appointed by the Government, had declared that his decisions were illegal and improper. That being the case, it was a very serious matter, and he thought the Attorney General for Ireland should have been present to give the necessary explanations. The Vote for the Irish Chief Secretary's office created discussion in former years, but they had taken a silent vote for it that night, and in the Chief Secretary's absence. To enable some Member of the Irish Government to be present to answer the necessary inquiries, he moved that the Chairman report Progress.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he hoped that when the Report was brought up the Attorney General for Ireland would follow the example of the noble Viscount and be in his place.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he wished to know whether information had been received at the Colonial Office to the effect, that one of the Australian colonies had resolved to send 600 convicts to England in retaliation for our sending convicts to Australia.
 MR. HENNESSY : Perhaps the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland can tell us.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that the careless way in which the papers were sent to the press was not the fault of the clerks, but of the heads of the departments, who, it was shown, sent in the first part of the composition of a blue-book before the second part was even thought of.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that perhaps the Attorney General for Ireland could tell the Committee the name of the Keeper of the Records.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he believed the office of superintendent was created in consequence of the exceptional legislation applied some years ago to South Wales.
 MR. HASSARD  said, as it was a question entirely turning upon available surplus, it would be desirable, before the second reading, to have some detailed information as to the finances of New Zealand. If 4,000 men were to be paid for at the rate of £40 each, exclusive of artillery, the total of £160,000 thus made would be a sery serious item.
 MR. SMOLLETT : The memorandum was acknowledged by the Board of Control and the Board of Directors.
 MR. SMOLLETT : Not a penny of it. He never accepted a part.
 MR. SMOLLETT : Certainly not.
 MR. SMOLLETT  said, he rose to more that "A Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the claims of his Highness Azeem Jah to the title and dignity of the Nawab of the Carnatic, and further to report upon the circumstances under which the Treaty entered into between his High-ness's father, Azeem ul Dowlah, and the East India Company, dated the 31st day of July, 1801, has been declared void." Four years ago some papers relating to the case had been laid on the table of the House at his request. Being then a new Member of the House, he did not feel himself competent to carry to a successful issue a question of such magnitude. He, therefore, looked for aid, and communicated with the hon. Member for Southwark (Mr. Layard), who, after examination into the matter, was so satisfied that gross injustice had been done, that upon one or two occasions he accompanied him to the India Office and
 1642 1643 1644 1645 ipso facto "We pray God" — he never knew that they prayed, but it seemed they did in 1828— "we pray God that the young Nawab may long live to enjoy the honours and perpetuate the line of the ancient and illustrious family of which he is the heir." 1646 1647 Laughter Our American Cousin 1648 1649 "The Prince Azeem nl Dowlah having agreed to an arrangement with Lord Olive, a treaty was concluded by which the whole of the civil and military government of the Carnatic was transferred for ever to the East India Company, with a condition that Prince Azeem ul Dowlah and his heirs were to preserve their titles and dignities, and receive one fifth part of the net revenues of the country." 1650 1651 Vattel Wheaton 1652 1653 Laughter imperium in imperio imperium in imperio 1654
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, the salary required augmentation. He was sorry Mr. Morris had resigned, but he hoped the Government would give him something more than his salary for the services he had rendered, and that they would materially increase the pay of his successor.
 MR. LOWE  said, the case was capable of being stated in a few words. The first Nawab of the Carnatic owed his elevation to the power of England, and as a reward for the assistance he had given her in the struggle between Lawrence and Dupleix. His son who succeeded him died in 1790, and the next in succession died in 1800. When we took Seringapatam we discovered that a correspondence of a highly treasonable nature had been carried on in cipher, which proved that the Nawab was one of the allies of Tippoo Sultan. Unfortunately for the Nawab the key to the cipher was also found, so that the meaning of the correspondence became known. Upon finding that the Marquess of Wellesley declared at once in council that he considered the Nawabship of the Carnatic was forfeited by Omdut ool Omrah, and that it was his right, if he thought fit, to take possession of the country forthwith; but he considered it would be best, from motives of leniency and policy, to take away from the Nawab only the civil and military administration, and to make him a suitable allowance of about one-fifth of the revenue. The proposition was made to a person who appeared to represent the Nawab's family, but who declined to have anything to do with a treaty handing over the govern-
 1668 ipso facto 1669
 MR. AYTOUN  said, he hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would allow such a time to elapse before the second reading of the Bill as would give to hon. Members an opportunity of reading the correspondence upon this subject, and that the discussion on the next stage of the measure would be brought forward at an early hour.
 MR. KEKEWICH  said, he thought it only fair to the officers of Dartmoor Prison to state, that on the occasion of the outbreak in November last they exhibited the greatest bravery and determination.
 MR. KEKEWICH  said, he wished to call attention to the outbreak which took place at the Dartmoor prison in November last, and to ask why the military had been withdrawn from the prison, and whether any means had been adopted to obtain the immediate assistance of the military in case it should be required.
 MR. O'HAGAN (THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND)  could only say that it was not a legal office, and that he had never heard of it before.
 MR. O'HAGAN  said, the law in Ireland was in a disgraceful position, and he would exert himself to improve it.
 MR. O'HAGAN  repeated that the Bill provided for the mode of taking evidence hereafter; but depositions in writing would be still necessary in some cases.
 MR. O'HAGAN  said, he hoped that under the Bill for the reform of the Court of Chancery the duties of the examiner would in the main be transferred to another office. He hoped this explanation would satisfy the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. SCULLY  hoped the right hon. Gentleman would inquire into the general question, so as to ascertain whether it would be desirable to adopt uniformly a rate per ounce or half-ounce. At present one could divide the contents of a letter and send the parts separately cheaper; than he could send them together. He noticed that the sum paid for postage last year for the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland was £45, and that the sum of £50 was now asked for. The postage of the ! Irish Office was also increased from £220 to £275. The postage of the Chief Secretary for Ireland had nearly doubled, it having increased from £710 to £1,390.
 MR. SCULLY  said, he thought that a vast saving might be effected, and benefit
 1679
 MR. SCULLY  said, he believed those offices were entirely different. He wanted to know whether there was really a Quit Rent Office.
 MR. SCULLY : Yes, he kept a cellar in the Custom House at Dublin. He had known Mr. Harding for thirty years. It was singular that no Member of the Irish Government knew the name of the Keeper of the Records. That came of hating no Irishman connected with the Government of Ireland. He saw the index finger of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland pointed at the noble Lord at the head of the Government, but the noble Viscount knew perfectly well he was not born in Ireland. He was the  Civis Romanus
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he had not had any communication with the officers of the Post Office on the proposal now made, but he would communicate with them in reference to it. He was, however, not certain that it was worth while to interfere with the existing system which, on the whole, worked very well.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  observed, that if the hon. Gentleman wished to ascertain the direct effect of the repeal of the paper duty on the estimate, it could no doubt be supplied by the Stationery Office. That effect, however, was not to be measured by the amount saved in duty, because it had effected a still more important result by extending the operations of trade. With respect to the question of the hon. Baronet (Sir Henry Willoughby), he had to state that the ex-
 1680
 MR. GREGORY  said he also would beg to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether it is the, intention of the Government to take immediate steps to procure the buildings to the rear of the National Gallery, in as much as the present structure is not large enough properly to exhibit all the National Pictures and selections from the National Drawings?
 MR. MASSEY  said the two main objections against the Bill were first, that it would effect an encroachment upon the foreshores, and thereby Would infringe the rights of the Crown; and, secondly that it was important to hear the report of the Fishery Commission that Was how sitting before they proceeded further with this measure. In respect to the former objection he thought that the rights of the Crown over the foreshore might be safely left in the hands of the Board of Admiralty; and in regard to the Commission, one of the Commissioners had given the strongest evidence in favour of the Bill. He might add that the result of the evidence adduced before the Committee was
 1636
 MR. MASSEY  said, he hoped the hon. Gentleman would confine his remarks to the subject before the Committee.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he could not but express his regret that Sir R. Griffiths, who was so popular in Ireland, and who discharged his duties so satisfactorily, should be obliged to surrender any portion of them because of decaying vigour. The best course to pursue with regard to the Office of Works in Ireland would, he thought, be to place at its head an able man, to furnish him with an efficient staff, and to make him responsible for the manner in which the works were executed.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he wished to point out that the Scotch Fishery Commissioners bad no judicial functions to perform, so that the analogy sought to be established failed altogether. The Secretary to the Treasury overlooked the fact that persons whose property was at. stake, and was ultimately forfeited, had a right to expect that their cases would be decided by a competent tribunal. It was understood that one of the Irish Commissioners should be a barrister of the highest eminence, and he put it to the right hon. Gentleman whether he thought the services of such a gentleman were to be had in Ireland at £350 a year. The Fisheries Bill had so far worked well. The receipts for fish in one district had increased from £105 last year to £710 this year, and the value of the nets from £49 and £98 to £128 and £180. The Government ought to pay an adequate sum for the services rendered.
 COLONEL W. STUART  said, he observed from a note in the estimate that there was some Return which had been in preparation for the last three years, and had been corrected twenty times. He should like to know what it was. Perhaps it was one of the missing despatches.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, if the hon. Gentleman the Member for Ayrshire had read  Orme 1666 dewanny 1667 "The treaty plighted the public faith of the nation, and therefore it must be his duty to maintain its terms according to its true spirit. Treaties ought always to be construed most favourably for the party whose whole dependence was on the honour of the other."
 MR. VANSITTART  said, he could not help rising to express his regret at the tone of that part of the speech of his hon. Friend the Member for Dumbartonshire in which he assailed so unfairly the administration of Lord Harris. It was quite unnecessary to say a word in vindication of Lord Harris's Government of Madras, which was admitted by all impartial and competent authorities to be such as to entitle him to be regarded as one of the most just and successful governors who had ever presided over that presidency. The Motion of his hon. Friend completely confirmed the predictions as to the result of transferring India from the late East India Company to the more immediate influence
 1665 A laugh
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he hoped the hon. Gentleman would not press his Motion, and thus mar their chance of getting rid of Committee of Supply that night.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  suggested that the sum was large for the mere duties of a tithe commission, which must be small.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to know what were the duties of the Commissioners?
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, the office had been formerly called the Quit Rent Office, but recently its name had been changed. The Landed Estates Office was, in fact, the old Quit Rent Office.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, the expenses of Parliamentary printing greatly depended on the number of Returns which were moved for by hon. Members. Only a day or two ago an immense blue-book had been printed concerning convictions for game offences, which he believed was a great waste of public money. The cost of stationery for the War Office and the Admiralty last year was £76,000, while in the two great departments of Customs and Inland Revenue the cost was only £57,000. He thought the former amount required some explanation,
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, the Vote contained an item of £190, postage for the Lord Chancellor. The postage for the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland only amounted to £50, and none was charged for the Lord Chancellor of Ireland.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  drew attention to the circumstance that, while the costs of erecting and repairing courthouses in England and Scotland were placed upon the Estimates, in Ireland the charge was paid out of the county rates.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he wished to know what was the meaning of the items for newspapers and railway guides.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he trusted her Majesty's Government would re-consider the amount of salary with as little delay as possible. It was preposterous to suppose that £350 was an adequate salary when they paid the Secretary to the Commission £500 a year.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he would take that occasion to ask, What the intentions of the Government were with respect to any change in the Office of Public Works in Ireland?
 SIR EDWARD DERING  said, that although he knew it was not usual to oppose a Bill which came down from the other House of Parliament on the second reading, yet this measure was so objectionable in its character that he felt bound to ask the House to suspend the proposed legislation. The Herne Bay Company, who were the promoters of the Bill, asked to be allowed to appropriate to their own use an area of about nine square miles, which was now a very productive fishing ground, and much frequented by the fishermen of Kent and Essex. It was computed that these rights would be worth eventually £25,000, and they were asked to confer that right on a private company, who gave no equivalent and held out no corresponding benefit to the public, except the possible decrease in the price of oysters. He did not advocate any monopoly for the existing companies. There was no reason why there should not be free trade in oysters as in all other things; but there were the strongest possible grounds why such a Bill as they were asked to sanction should not be passed. It was totally and entirely without precedent. It was unprecedented to make a grant of part of the foreshore of the United Kingdom. No such grant had been made either by Parliament or the Crown for many centuries. It was only in 1843 that the rights and privileges of the fishermen of this country were confirmed By the Fishery Convention Act, one of the clauses of which defined; the right of Her Majesty's subjects to fish along the coasts, of the United Kingdom at three feet below water, mark. The whole of the, coast sought for by this Bill was anchorage ground between the Medway and the Thames. Clause 48 of the Bill, however, imposed a penalty upon any one disturbing the proposed new oyster beds.
 1635
 MR. WATKIN  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty Whether Her Majesty's Government bearing in mind the existence and extension of the Naval Stations of the United States near San Francisco, and of Russia at Sitka, propose to establish any means for enabling the docking and repair of Her Majesty's ships in the North Pacific; and if so, whether the barbour of Esquimalt has been selected as the site?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that in the outbreak to which the hon. Gentleman referred the convicts in general took no part. It arose from the attempt of thirteen convicts to make their escape, but they were all captured, and none of the other prisoners had given them any assistance. The number of convicts had since been reduced. With regard to the
 1690
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he thought the Government were about to undertake a great responsibility in proposing the loan, and the proper time for discussing the proposal Was in Committee on the Resolution. He had not had time to read the papers through carefully, but from what he had seen he Would warn the House to look carefully into the financial state of New Zealand. He believed that the liabilities of New Zealand were very great. Why should they want a loan of £3,000,000? He wished to know the amount of their outstanding liabilities, for he did not think the New Zealand system of finance was upon a sound basis. He should like to know how the old debts were to be discharged, for respecting some of them squabbles were going on between the Home and the Colonial Governments. He understood that the colony was to pay £44 for each infantry soldier, and £55 for each artilleryman, and he should have thought that the allowance for the infantry and artillery would have absorbed the whole of the surplus income of the colony, leaving no margin to justify a guarantee. The taxpayers of this country ought not to be burdened with these sops to New Zealand.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, this item was an illustration of the fact, that when once an expenditure got to a high figure there was no bringing it down again. From the year 1835 to the time of the Crimean war the Vote under consideration never exceeded £260,000. In the following year it increased to £400,000, and had never been less since that time. The discussions which had taken place showed that the House was not so much to blame as was generally supposed, for the printing which took place under its direction was not liable to much complaint. He should like to know from the Chancellor of the Exchequer who was the party who exercised any control over the departmental expenditure. Of late years some of the departments had taken to printing neat essays at the public expense, which few persons ever read. In the old Tory days of Lord Liverpool a much stricter control was exercised over the departments in these matters than was exercised at the present time.
 MR. CAIRD  remarked, that the annual instalments payable by the counties should include the cost of superintendence.
 MR. CAIRD  said, the Vote bore a striking resemblance to the Vote rejected some years ago for Highland roads and bridges, and ought to share the same fate.
 SIR JAMIS FERGUSS0N  said, that his hon. Friend near him (Mr. Smollett) had established some claim on the consideration of the House, which on a former occasion the subject had not deserved, because he had confined his remarks to the merits of the particular case, and had not launched out as had been done before into general invective against the policy of the Indian administration; and although he had made use of some expressions of unusual force the House had a tangible case to deal with. As his hon. Friend had truly remarked, the gast of the case lay in very small compass. It was well known that Lord Mormagton on arriving in India found that among the otter great questions that were awaiting his decision the condition of the Carnatic called for his early interference. The Mahomedan Government which had been established under the Emperor of Delhi had fellen into a state of the greatest and anarchy, and that the greatest distress and misery was felt by the people. Of all the evil acts which existed none mere more manifest than those which arose out of the ambiguous Sovereignty exercised partly by the East India Company and partly by the Nawab. The treaty then in force was the Treaty of 1792, which was an extension and emendation of the Treaty of 1787. By that treaty it was stipulated that in consideration of the enjoyment of four-fifths of the revenue of the Carnatic, the Company should guarantee the stability of the throne of the Nawab, and maintain peace in his province. In fact, it amounted to an offensive and defensive alliance between the Company and the Nawab, Lord Wellesley found that the payments of revenue to the Company ware no less than sixty-six lacs in arrear; and that although the Government of India was combating an enormous Power both in India and in Europe, these Princes, instead of assisting them, as by treaty they were bound to do, were throwing ovary possible obstacle in their way. The real point upon which this question turned was the Treaty of 1801. [Mr. SMOLLETT: Hear, hear !] He was glad that bis hon. Friend admitted that. After Lord Wellesley had, by the valour of British troops and his own firmness, gained the victory of Seringapatam, he brought under the notice of the Government of Madras the conduct of the Nawab of the Carnatie to the British Government. He wrote to Lord Olive stating that the capture of Seringafatam had brought to light the existence of a secret correspond-
 1659 tabula rasa 1660 1661
 MR. HIBBERT  said, he would beg to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether, as the Vote for the New National Gallery at Burlington House has been rejected, it is the intention to take any steps to obtain possession of the rooms now occupied by the Royal Academy, in Trafalgar Square, so as to render the same available for the exhibition of the National Pictures?
 MR. HIBBERT  observed, that the postage for the Poor Law Commissioners was increased from £4,305, its amount last year, to £5,280. The Commissioners interfered in so many small matters that they made themselves unbearable to Boards of Guardians, and thus it was that the expense for postage increased.
 MR. HIBBERT  said, he would bear testimony to the illiberal treatment of police officers who were witnesses upon prosecutions, and to the injurious consequences arising there from.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education, Whether, in accordance with the statement of the Lord President last year, "that the Government were considering the best means of effecting an improvement in the Vaccination Law,'' and having regard to the great loss of life from small-pox which has lately occurred in London, it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce any measure on that subject in the present Session?
 MR. PEEL  said, he found it necessary to examine with great care the claims of local jurisdiction, and in repaying one-fourth of the county police he could not help thinking that they were justified in making the deductions in question. They found there was a tendency in making the claims to place new charges in the account, which had not formerly been included. The practice was growing up in many of the counties of increasing nominally the pay of the constables, either by converting the allowances to which the Government did not contribute into pay, or by granting an increase of pay, but stopping it to defray rents which had not previously been required to be paid; and thus, while no benefit was derived by the constables, an increased amount was obtained from the Government. Thus, in Hampshire, until September, 1862, the superintendents and superior officers had never been charged anything for the rent of their stations. Since that date their pay had been increased; but the increase was stopped from them under the plea of being a payment for rent of the stations. Thus the nominal pay was increased, and the portion to be paid by the Government was also increased, but the police had no corresponding benefit. Under these circumstances the Treasury thought it necessary to institute a strict examination, and to require the county officers to give in detailed returns for every item. His hon. Friend complained of the deduction on account of stoppages of fines; but if £10 was stopped out of a constable's pay in the year, why should not the Government have the benefit of one-fourth of that amount when it paid one-fourth of the pay from which that £10 was stopped? It might be that the county would raise the entire £10 for the pay of the constable, but it was not what the county raised, but what it paid that the Government were to keep in view. And with regard to the superannuation, if they contributed one-fourth, the Government would be paying what they were not authorized under the act to do. There was, moreover, a precedent in the case of the Civil Service When deductions on account of the superannuation Fund were made in the Civil Service, the amount was not considered a portion of the pay, and no income tax
 1684
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that the correspondence of the department had enormously increased. Last year the active measures taken to ascertain the state of the country and every part of Ireland had, no doubt, nearly doubled the correspondence.
 MR. PEEL  said, he was unable to inform the hon. and gallant Gentleman of the exact nature of the Return to which he had just referred.
 MR. PEEL  observed, that the whole expenses of printing and stationery were now in one Vote; but formerly the printing and stationery of a department were included in the estimate for that department. The change had the effect of increasing the item now under consideration; but, of course, the vote of each department was reduced at the same time.
 MR. PEEL  said, the Estimates set forth the authority or Acts of Parliament under which the provision for repairing and building county court-houses was made.
 MR. PEEL  said, the object of the office was to record the transactions connected with estates in which the Crown had an interest, and the Crown's landed interest in Ireland consisting chiefly of quit rents, the deeds to be recorded were very numerous.
 MR. PEEL  said, that the Vote was considerably less than last year, although the business which gave rise to the expenditure was constantly increasing. Although the nominal amount of the Vote was £344,165, yet in reality it should be reduced by £65,000, which came back into the Exchequer as the proceeds of sales, profits of the Gazettes, and other receipts. The Treasury Minute had been promulgated in consequence of the slovenly way in which the manuscripts had been prepared for printing.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : It is Mr. W. Harding.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : It is, though.
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  said, he had no doubt that the proposal just made would prove satisfactory to his hon. Friend; but, at the same time, he wished to point out the fallacy into which the hon. Member the Secretary of the Treasury had fallen. He said the Act of Parliament threw upon the Government the payment to the counties of one-fourth of their expenses in certain matters, and introduced the instance of the income tax as an analogy to what the Government had to pay in this case. But the income tax was not a case in point; for when the income tax was to be levied, it was the duty of the officials to ascertain what the man received into his pocket. In this case, on the other hand, what was to be considered was the amount paid by the county. If the Government were advised that the allowances were equitable, and would act upon such advice, he was sure the result would prove satisfactory to his hon. Friend.
 SIR WILLIAM MILES  said, that having raised the question be would rather leave it to be dealt with fairly by the Treasury, and therefore would not press his Amendment.
 SIR WILLIAM MILES  said, he wished to call attention to the deductions which had been made by the Treasury in the one-fourth contributed by the Government to the pay and clothing of the county police. For five years after the Act of 1856, regulating the county police, came into force, the one-fourth allowed by Government had been given in the gross expenses of pay and clothing of the constabulary; but in 1862 a notice was issued by the Treasury which, much to the surprise of the counties, made certain deductions from the sum upon which that one-fourth had previously been paid. The deductions made were for the amounts paid by the counties for lodgings, medical attendance, superannuation allowances, and for fines. The result had been great dissatisfaction, and strong representations had been made to the Treasury on the subject; and eventually the two first items were struck off, deductions were confined to payments of the superannuation fund and to fines. That was literally a question of what was the legal construction of stoppages. There was great dissatisfaction, and small as the sum was the principle was great. He trusted that the Government would yield to a simple demand for justice. The hon. Baronet concluded by moving—
 "That the deductions now made were contrary to the provisions and intentions of the Act of Parliament, 19 & 20  Vict. c
 SIR WILLIAM MILES  said, he should support the Vote, which he trusted the Committee would pass.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he would request the hon. Member for the King's County to follow the example. Any observations which he thought necessary might be made upon the Report.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, he rose to move the second reading of this Bill. It had been introduced in consequence of a Report which had been presented by a Commission appointed by the late Sir George Lewis, to make inquiries into the employment of children and young persons in trades and manufactures not regulated by law. A similar Commission was appointed twenty years ago, whose Report coincided very much in its general results with the Report which was presented last year. The Commissioners had inquired into and had reported on the state of the children and young persons employed in the manufacture of pottery, lucifer matches,
 1709 "(1.) During the first six months after the passing of the Act children not under eleven to be employed as young persons, (2.) During the first thirty months children not under twelve may be employed as young persons. (3.) No child, young person, or woman, employed in lucifer-match manufactory to take meals in any part of the factory where the manufacturing process is carried on. (4.) No child to be employed in fustian cutting before eleven years of age. (5.) During the first eighteen months after the passing of the Act, so much of the Factory Acts as provide that no child, young person, or woman shall take meals in any part of the factory where the manufacturing process is carried on shall not apply to the employment of paper-staining or the manufacture of earthenware." 1710 1711 "The operation of dipping the ware is a specially injurious employment, owing to the poisonous nature of the lead which generally forms a large ingredient in the glaze. Boys of a very young age are employed in carrying the ware to the dipper, and are thus Compelled to spend much of their time in the poisoned atmosphere of the dipping house. The injurious effects of the dripping tub are well known. Few dippers Continue many years at their work without suffering from painter's
 1712 i.e "The potters of Stoke and Wolstanton are of short stature and sickly appearance Boys are put to work at a very early age. Boys were observed carrying recently made ware into the stoves at the age of seven, and at all intermediate ages between seven and fourteen years.… Young females, were seen turning the jigger at the ages of twelve and thirteen years, and sometimes, but rarely, at an earlier age.… It was stated by Mr. Boothroyd, a medical practitioner of Hanley, that each successive generation of potters became, more dwarfed and less robust than the preceding one, and that, in his opinion, but for their occasional intermarriage with strangers, the deterioration Would follow much more rapidly. This statement was confirmed by Mr. M'Bean, another medical man, who said that he had observed a marked degeneration in the potters, especially shown in diminution of stature and breadth, since he commenced practice among them twenty-five years ago. This falling off he attributed greatly to the neglect of children by their mothers, bat more especially to the early age at which, they are put to labour, and to the unhealthiness of their parents." "The potters, as a class, both men and women, but more especially the former, represent a degenerated population, both physically and morally. They are, as a rule, stunted in growth, ill-shaped, and frequently ill-formed in the chest; they become prematurely old, and are certainly short-lived; they are phlegmatic and bloodless, and exhibit their debility of constitution by obstinate attacks of dyspepsia and disorders of the liver
 1713 1714 
 
 No. of Children Examined. Could read. Could not read. 
 Stoke-on-Trent 43 27, or 62·7 p. ct. 16, or 37·2 p. ct. 
 Hanley, Shelton, Etruria 131 74, or 56·4 p. ct. 57, or 43·5 p. ct. 
 Fenton and Longton. 69 25, or 36·2 p. ct. 44, or 63·7 p. ct. "I have reason to fear that, as a rule, this law is of little practical effect in Lancashire, from three causes:—1st, because the expression 'competent schoolmaster' admits of a wide application; 2nd, because the expression 'able to read and write' is also susceptible of loose interpretation; and 3rd, because the supervision of the working of the clause is not, and probably cannot,
 1715 "wherever I have had the opportunity in colliery schools I have inquired whether the Mines Regulation Act of 1860 has had any perceptible influence in promoting the attendance of boys between ten and twelve. The answer, both from schoolmasters and from owners or viewers, has, I believe, invariably been in the negative. I believe the provisions of the Act are fairly carried out, but I am not aware of any instances of boys attending school and receiving the certificate required. Viewers would rather dispense with them altogether than have the trouble of looking after the certificates. It does not, however, I am sorry to say, follow, that because they do not go down the pit they are therefore at school. Other employment, not within the scope of the Act, is found for them, so that nothing is commoner than to be assured that there are no boys of that age in the pit, and to see on the other hand, that there are hardly any of them in school." "The Mines Act of 1860, so far as its educational provisions are concerned, has been a complete failure in the mining districts of Staffordshire and Shropshire." "Judging by the-schools which I have inspected in the mining districts, and by information obtained from their teachers and managers there seems to be no doubt that the Act has produced some, but hitherto only a slight, effect. I proceed to state the reasons which in the opinion of many persons well qualified to judge, have hindered and defeated the object of the Act. With regard to the education of children working in mines, the Act provides that a boy above the age of ten years and under the age of. twelve years may be employed in a mine, or colliery, if he obtains a certificate, under the hand of a competent schoolmaster that he is able to and write. These expressions open a wide door for abuse. The term "competent schoolmaster" is very vague. Under this nomenclature, any schoolmaster teaching any kind of school may give the certificate required. Possibly there is no schoolmaster who is actually unable to tell whether a boy can read or write But there is no doubt of the fact that boys obtain their certificates whose reading and writing, they can be so called, are of the most wretched character, and perfectly useless for the purpose of education. Without some arrangements for a really 'competent master' and some settled test of ability to read and write, the object of the Act will be defeated not only by dishonest, persons but by those who believe that they are carrying out the point when they keep within the letter of the law." 1716 "If the master's propensities prompt him to loiter away the earlier days of the week, he works the extra hours on middle days to make up his losses. Thus the child—the almost infant child —is taxed with three or four, hours' increased exertion, to the sacrifice of his, health, his morals, and every domestic comfort that he would otherwise enjoy, and his without the least remuneration, as in every case his wages are the same, whether he makes the twelve hours or the sixteen. The evil is lamented by the honest workman, by the children, by the parents, and universally by the manufacturers, who acknowledge their inability to correct it themselves without incurring the risk of exciting tumult, and thereby occasioning some delay in the execution of their orders, as the processes are so linked in with each other that by losing one set of men the others are rendered useless." 1717 1718 1719 1720
 MR. ALDERMAN COPELAND  said, he should like to see the Bill so modified that it could be advantageously applied. He
 1724
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON , in reply, said, he hoped that all the information that was in the possession of the Adjutant General on the points mentioned by the hon. and gallant Member would be laid on the table, to-morrow or next day, with other papers relating to the Ashantee war. The Returns received up to the present time by the Adjutant General only reached up to the end of last April, and did not contain the names of all the Officers who were stated by the hon. and gallant Mem-
 1729
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether he can name a day on which he will place upon the table of the House the Warrant for the re-organization of the Indian Army in accordance with the Report of the Commission on Memorials of Indian Officers?
 MR. DAWSON  said, he begged to second the Motion. He had always been of opinion that the true and only groundwork
 1781 1782
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he rose
 1728
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he rose to express his gratitude to the right hon. Gentleman for the care and trouble which he had bestowed upon the Bill. The pottery manufacturers of Staffordshire were constituents of whom he might justly be proud. So anxious were they that their trade should not be carried on to the moral or physical injury of those they employed, that they were the first body of manufactures who had themselves sought to inflict this restrictive legislation on their trade. He (Mr. Adderley) hoped the second reading of the Bill would be passed without discussion, and the sense of the House taken on the proposition of his noble Friend for referring the Bill to a Select Committee. He thought it was due to the manufacturers, who had initiated the legislation, that such a Bill should be investigated by a Select Committee as they requested, and he believed that the short delay that would thereby be caused would in no way endanger its passing. The system of inspection which had of late so much spread in this country was not only very costly but was also distasteful to our habits and customs, and could be only regarded as a violent remedy. The necessity of some such infraction of private rights could not, however, be denied, because, but for it, there would have been no Factory Act legislation. Those who at first were the strongest opponents of that, system now admitted the beneficial effects of it. They had, indeed, entirely recanted the opinions which they, entertained, some years, ago. He thought the principle of the Factory Act so successful when applied should be further applied to all trades and employments in the country, if it could be done, and as much as possible by a system of penalties on detection of offences, with as little espionage as
 1725 1726
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, If the Government will fix a day for going into Committee of Supply on Colonial Estimates, on which he may bring forward that Motion of which he has given notice, on the present disposal of the British Troops in Canada?
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, in reply, that at last he was happy to be able to give a positive answer to the hon. Baronet's Question. The Warrant had been sent by the Secretary of State for War, in whose hands it was, to the Queen, yesterday or this morning. It would be transmitted to the Council on Thursday, and he hoped it would be presented by Monday at the latest.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, that being of a more sanguine character than the hon. Member for Liskeard, he should put the Question of which he had given notice. He wished to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether, since secresy is not observed by the other parties to the Conference, it would not be a mere empty form to maintain it towards the House of Commons; and whether, when the extension of the Armistice was consented to, it was understood and agreed that that extension should be final?
 MR. CARDWELL  replied, that he had not received any official communication from Victoria even, that the Notice of the Motion to which the hon. Gentleman referred had been given. He was sure the hon. Gentleman would not expect him to anticipate the adoption of such a Resolution by the Legislature of Victoria, and still less to state what course it might be necessary for Her Majesty's Government to take in the event of that Resolution being adopted.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he proposed to take the Colonial Estimates on Thursday next.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, it was unnecessary to follow the subject further than the hon. Gentleman had done in order to show the inequality and injustice of the tax, and he hoped the enlightened pertinacity of the hon. Member would induce the Chancellor of the Exchequer to consider the effect of the tax on those who had to pay it. He would, however, venture to remind the Chancellor of the Exchequer that when some years ago he (Mr. Whalley) ventured to call attention to the injustice and immorality of the tax, the answer of the right hon. Gentleman was, not to deny the statements put forward, but to ask how they were to find a substitute. The Income Tax was, to all intents and purposes, not a direct tax, but an indirect tax, the most injurious and oppressive that could possibly be devised, so far as it was levied upon persons in respect of trade or occupation. A grocer or a draper regarded it as a necessary outgoing, and one which he must recompense himself by charging more for his goods. It was against the science of political economy to tax trade in that manner. Under the statute of Elizabeth for raising rates for the relief of the poor, vestries might levy the rate not on lands and houses merely, but on stock in trade and other personal property, but they knew that to do so would be unwise, as the result would be that the tradesman would have to charge more for his goods, and in that way the public would suffer. And he did not know what distinction there was between the imperial tax and the local tax. But the great question was, did the income tax tend to demoralize the traders of this country—and in his opinion it did. He did not agree with the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckingham that the tax should be continued, and be modified. He thought the Property Tax should be separated entirely from the Income Tax, that the Income Tax should be done away with and the Property Tax maintained.
 COLONEL EDWARDS  congratulated the Vice President of the Council of Education on the production of the Bill, which would be hailed with delight by the whole manufacturing population, and at the same time he thanked his noble Friend (Lord Ingestre) for his very eloquent and able speech. Living as he did in the heart of a manufacturing district, he could bear testimony to the blessings conferred by factory legislation. He trusted he would be excused by the House in not giving a silent vote in support of the extension of the Factory Act as proposed by the Government. It might be in the recollection of the House, that sixteen years ago he had the honour of supporting the views of that true patriot and benefactor of the working classes,
 1727
 MR. H. R. GRENFELL  said, that he would very briefly express the reasons which induced him to vote for the Motion of the noble Lord the Member for North Staffordshire He could assure his right hon. Friend the Vice President of the Committee of Council that lie was not going to oppose his measure from any reasons of abstract political economy, but solely from a belief that no arguments had yet been adduced to show that the Mines and Collieries Regulation Act might not be applied to the Pottery district. His right hon. Friend said in his speech that various petitions had reached him since the publication of the blue-book at variance with the original memorial of the manufacturers. He (Mr. Greenfell) could assure the House that such was not the case. The petitions were exactly in accordance with the original memorial, and disputed none of its facts. But they disputed many of the facts contained in the blue-book both as to the health of the district and as to the education. The noble Lord having already shown that the educational statistics in the blue-book were not to be relied on, it was unnecessary for him (Mr. Grenfell) to speak further on that point. But he might say that these errors had caused great uneasiness in the district from the fact that they proceeded from Government agents. The Rev. Mr. Sandford was a Government Inspector of Schools, and with regard to the statement of Dr. Arlidge on the health of the district, lie had among his papers a pamphlet, published by a sub-Inspector of
 1722 "Newcastle under-Lyme, February 17th 1864. "Dear Sir,—My friend Mr. Blakiaton, of Shelton, has kindly suggested that it would be well for me to write you in reply to a question put to him in a recent letter of yours, respecting the scope of my letter published in the report of the Children's Employment Commission, p. 24. I gladly avail myself of the suggestion, as my remarks have been much misinterpreted and severely censured. "Paragraph 2 has been set forward by itself, and discussed without reference to the explanations in paragraph 1, and I have been made to say that the defects noted in paragraph 2 apply to the whole population of the Potteries. This interpretation is unfair. My assertions, as intimated in the first section, rest upon observations made among sick people almost entirely, and carried on principally at the Infirmary. At the same time this institution offers the best possible field for noting the prevalent disorders of the artisans of the district, and I again asked my opinion of the physical condition of the working potters, I should reiterate the statements in my published letter, with very slight modifications. The word "mentally" crept into my letter without reflection, and I would not repeat it unless convinced by special research of the truth of deterioration of mental condition, ever and above that amount inevitably concomitant with physical deterioration. "Then, again, I would not assert that two-thirds of the potters are scrofulous, though probably one-third are. In so saying I was influenced by the vast number of strumeue patients which fell under my observation at the date I wrote, at the Infirmary, and from what I then knew I was justified in making the assertion. That so many scrofulous cases fell to my let at that time was the result of the usage prevailing, to send such cases to the physicians. It would lead me beyond the limits of a letter to enter into further explanation of similar accidental modifying circumstances to be allowed for in a fair estimate of my letter. Saving, however, the two points mentioned, I repeat, my letter conveys the positive
 1723 "J. T. ARLIDGE. "H. R. Grenfell, Esq." P.S.—I have a multitude of statistics which I hope shortly to publish—J.T.A.
 MR. CRUM-EWING  said, that knowing the beneficial effect the Factory Act had had, he hailed with satisfaction, the introduction, of the Bill, and it was with, considerable regret that he heard a few days back, that the right hon. Gentleman had determined to exclude from its operation the hookers, lappers, and, finishers. The whole of the evidence taken by the Commissioners was in favour of including those classes within the operation of the Act, and he trusted the Government would not exclude them, and that they would not flinch from pressing the Bill forward.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General for Ireland having anticipated that his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Belfast (Sir Hugh Cairns) would make an attack upon the National Board, had prepared a speech, the greater part of which was not  ad litem 1794 1795 1796 1797 Laughter "We have our heel on the neck of the National system, the vitals of which are well-nigh strangled." 1798 1799
 MR. BLAKE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether his attention had been drawn to the Notice given by Mr. Kyte, M.P. for East Melbourne, of his intention to move the following Resolution in the Legislature of Victoria:—
 "To move that the House will resolve itself into a Committee of the whole, to consider the propriety of presenting an Address to His Excel-
 1730
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Gentleman is out of order in making any reference to a speech delivered in this House in the course of the present Session.
 MR. HUBBARD : All I will say is that the House has gathered from what has fallen from the right hon. Gentleman on other occasions that the Income Tax was a subject upon the future of which the Parliament had yet to decide, and I therefore imagined that I was really assisting the object which the right hon. Gentleman has in view in bringing before the House some of the features connected with the tax as it now stands. It is quite true that in previous Sessions the right hon. Gentleman has remarked that with the peculiar views which I entertain with regard to the oppressive and unjust character of the tax he does not agree. I am sorry for that, because, if he himself were sensible of these defects and inequalities, he would not only acknowledge them, but would probably attempt to apply a remedy. And now, Sir, I would notice one further argument which may be urged to arrest the disposition of the House to reform this tax. The Chancellor of the Exchequer has brought this question before the House: Is public economy compatible with the maintenance of the Income Tax? He has stated that his great experience in the office he holds has raised in himself serious doubts whether His possible to retain the Income Tax as
 1748 s 1749
 MR. HUBBARD  resumed: The Chancellor of the Exchequer has spoken of this tax as one of which the defects were known, so that the back had adapted itself to the burden; but I believe that his proverb should be read the other way, and that the back on which the burden rested becoming impatient had thrown off just as much of it as seemed convenient. The evil is, that in that process there is an essential and inevitable degradation of the whole man, and that is a far more important consideration ["Hear, hear!"] than the mere money grievance. I make this Motion at a period when the Budget has been disposed of, and in such a way that its affirmation can cause no inconvenience to the Government. I have stated that the change I desire is one to be adopted not now but hereafter. I therefore do appeal to the House and to those who are connected with the Government, to put away from them the idea that in voting for my Motion they will cause any embarrassment to the Government. And I venture to entreat the House, with all the earnestness I possess, to join me in deprecating the re-imposition in its present form of a tax inevitable, but which as now administered is rife with pecuniary wrong and moral deterioration to our fellow countrymen. The hon. Member concluded by moving his Resolution:—
 MR. HUBBARD , in rising to call attention to the operation and extent of the direct and indirect taxation as now levied, with especial reference to the Income Tax, said: Sir, What is the reason that taxes are disbursed more grudgingly than expenditure in any other form—that the tax-gatherer is universally execrated — and that taxation is a subject at once irksome and irritating? There ought, Sir, to be no ground for such a question. Taxes ought to be regarded as offerings cheerfully conceded by the various members of the community—by each according to his means—for objects essential to his welfare, and which singly he either cannot accomplish—or can accomplish only at a much greater sacrifice. In the payment of his taxes every one ought to be able to rejoice as the means by which he is best able to secure his personal safety from external foes or domestic dangers, and protection for his property and for his industry — by which, in short, he obtains the immense benefits which result from the good government, which is a main feature of advanced civilization. 1732 1733
 MR. HUBBARD : I have very few words to add to the discussion. The deserted condition of the House is less to be ascribed to a want of interest in the subject of taxation, as supposed by my right hon. Friend, than to the fact that dinner is a subject of still higher interest. I have no other point to notice in the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. In answer to the hon. Member for Stamford, I must remind him that the apparent anomaly to which he refers as an objection to my plan has been thoroughly explained, and the principle of the supposed case affirmed in the memoranda appended to the Report of 1861. That principle has been approved, and the provisions necessary to give it effect have been framed by one of the most acute and logical lawyers of our day; and it will remain superior to all impeachment, until the impeachment is supported by argument and demonstration. I entertain unfailing confidence in the ultimate triumph of right principles of taxation, although I may have to regret that the Vote of the House to-night will postpone the result which I desire.
 MR. MAGUIRE  moved that the debate be adjourned.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Sir, as the House is not likely to receive any satisfactory answer, I give notice that I will draw the attention of the House, on the first occasion of our going into Supply, relative to the publication of the secret diplomacy in the public newspapers.
 MR. O'HAGAN (ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND)  said, he would not shrink from the responsibility of replying to the very able speech of the hon. and learned Member for Belfast (Sir Hugh Cairns), because he thought it was quite fit and becoming in one who had been assailed, not so much in that speech as in the agitation of which it was a very mild expression, that he should say, on behalf of himself and others, what he conceived ought to be satisfactory to any reasonable man in relation to charges which he knew, so far as imputations of motives were concerned, to be utterly unfounded, and which he believed to be, in relation to fact, equally unfounded. He had for some months past been observing the demonstrations—to use a word which was familiar to them in Ireland—which had been made in the press and on the platforms of certain districts of that country; and, beyond a doubt, the accusations which had been made against the Board of Education had been of a very grievous character. There had been accusations made against men of whom, although he was one of them, he presumed to say they were persons of the highest station in Ireland, and who had
 1783 1784 1785 1786 Qui haeret in literâ haeret in cortice doctrinaire 1787 1788 s d s d 1789 1790 Cries of 1791 1792 1793
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I freely admit that it would be most unfair to charge my hon. Friend who brought forward this Motion either
 1751 1752 d d s d s s 1753 1754 1755 1756
 MR. FERRAND  said, he believed that the majority of the gentlemen engaged in the shipping trade of the country were in favour of the Bill, and he was therefore sorry to see the clause including shipping warehousemen in the provisions of the Bill struck out He maintained that that course shad been adopted by the Government in consequence of the pressure put upon the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department by certain Germans, inhabitants of Bradford. Might he ask the right hon. Baronet, if some pressure of a political nature had been brought to bear upon him?
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, When the Return relating to National Education (Ireland), which was ordered on the 19th day of February last, will be laid upon the table of the House?
 SIR FRANCIS CROSSLEY  said, he had looked upon the first Factory Act with great fear, because he had believed that it would not answer, but he could now bear testimony to its good effects in every direction. He quite agreed in the opinion that the children worked batter and learnt more under the half-time system than if all their, time were devoted either to school or to labour. He thought that if they found further legislation for the protection of children successful, they might come to the House and ask them to extend the same class of legislation to agricultural labourers.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I have not had any communication with a single person upon the subject.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he wished to state his entire concurrence in the expression of gratification at the way in which the Bill had been received. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Stoke-upon-Trent had complained of the manner in which the manufacturers had been treated by the Commissioners in their Report, but it should be remembered that the Commissioners had given the manufacturers credit for admire fully to concur in the objects which the Commission itself sought to promote. The Factory Acts referred to by the Bill were not thirteen, as stated by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Adderley), but only five, and those five comprised the whole code of legislation in that direction. He would suggest that the Bill should be read a second time without opposition, and that the only point in dispate, the question as regarded the half-time, should be settled in Committee. He doubted, however, if the question would be so satisfactorily settled by a Committee upstairs as by a Committee of the whole House, while the probable effect of referring the Bill to a Special Committee would be to postpone legislation upon the subject for another year.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : Sir, I rise to move—
 "That in the opinion of this House the Rules sanctioned by the Commissioners of National Education in Ireland on the 21st day of November, 1863, are, so far as regards their operation on the aid afforded to Convent and Monastic Schools, at variance with the principles of the system of National Education." 1762 1763 1764 1765 1766 "No clergyman of any denomination or member of any religious order can be recognized as a teacher of a national school. This does not apply to the teachers of convent schools." "Creating an invidious distinction, and giving an undue advantage to one denomination, contrary to the previous principles of the Board." 1767 "Created an invidious distinction and gave an undue advantage to one denomination." "Should admit that convent schools must be looked upon as practically exclusive schools." 1768 1769 "These teachers are not classified by the Board, nor are they required to submit to an examination, as the Commissioners take for granted that they are sufficiently well educated to discharge the duties of national teachers efficiently; and, in point of feet, it is undeniable that the majority of them—of the nuns especially — are infinitely better educated than the teachers of ordinary National schools, while it is equally true that they bring to the discharge of their duties a disinterestedness and devotedness to which even the most zealous of the lay teachers can have no claim. It is also undeniable that their schools do an incalculable amount of good. Their pupils receive a moral and religious training of the highest order; they are educated to habits of truth-telling, modesty, order, and cleanliness, and such of
 1770 "These teachers very seldom have any opportunity of receiving a technical training as teachers, either before or after making their religious profession; and hence, although they are undoubtedly well educated in a general sense, I apprehend that many of them have a very limited acquaintance with those improved methods of teaching and school organization which have received the sanction of experience. The want of such technical knowledge is most apparent in their management of the junior classes. It is a characteristic of these teachers that they are impatient of competition. A rival school, if it can possibly be extinguished, is not allowed to exist. In crowded cities this is, of course, impossible; but in Tralee, Killarney, Newcastle, Kinsale, Queenstown, Middleton, Skibbereen, Bandon, Dingle, and a host of smaller towns, no female schools, except those connected with convents, are to be found; none are permitted to be established. In some of them, indeed, such as Tralee, Killarney, Newcastle, and Dingle, in which there are monks' schools as well as nuns' schools, even the ordinary male National schools have been proscribed." 1771 "It is not my intention, however, just now to enter at greater length into the state of these schools and their teachers, as I have it in contemplation to inspect all the other convent schools in my district, and, when I have time, to make them the subject of a special Report. There are, however, two circumstances I must mention which cannot but interfere with their functions—one is, that these teachers have no opportunity of receiving educational training as teachers either before or after making their profession of faith, although they are well educated in a general sense, and they have necessarily a limited acquaintance with those methods of training and school organization which have received the sanction of experience, and the want of which is apparent in the management of these schools." 1772 1773 "In the case of a few very large and highly efficient schools the Commissioners are prepared to appoint young persons of great merit to act as first class monitors, with a rate of salary higher than the rate of salaries of the above grades." 1774 1775 "Besides the principal and assistant teachers included under the foregoing head, there are other junior literary and industrial assistant teachers, pupil-teachers, and paid monitors." "The district model schools are never intended to be training establishments for teachers." "The chief object of model schools is to promote a united education, to communicate a literary and scientific education, and to train young persons for the office of teachers," 1776 1777 s d s d s d s d 1778 "Sir,—The attention of the Irish Government has been drawn to certain contemplated changes in the fundamental rules of the system of national education in Ireland, the effect of which would be seriously to imperil the principles on which the system is based. I have to remind you that the Board has no power to change any fundamental rule without the express permission of his Excellency the Lord Lieutenant." 1779 "That though it seems to them there is nothing in the charter of incorporation forbidding the change of any rule of the Board, they are aware that, by one of the rules which were approved by the Government in 1855, it is provided that the Commissioners are not to change any fundamental rule without the express permission of his Excellency the Lord Lieutenant. We are directed further to state that, in approving the recent rules, supposed to be referred to by you, the Commissioners are of opinion that in so doing they made no change in any fundamental rule; and they are disposed to think that the Lord Lieutenant—to whom, in answer to his Excellency's letter of the 23rd ult., they have now forwarded a communication on the subject of these rules—will concur with them in this opinion." "1st, Those rules which protect the children from interference with their religious opinions; 2nd, those rules which entitle the pastors to give religious instruction to children in vested schools; 3rd, those rules which regulate and confirm the rights of the patron, and the succession in case of a vacancy; 4th, the rules which give to managers the right to use the schools, or to the public the right to visit them, in order to see that they are properly carried on." 1780 "In order to perfect the monitorial system the Committee are convinced it is necessary to extend somewhat the period of monitorial service where special aptitude is manifested either for training teachers or for receiving the instruction."
 SIR JOHN HAY  seconded the Motion.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for War to lay upon the table of the House—
 "Statements of the number of Officers and Men in the Cape Coast command on the 1st day of July, 1863: Of the number of Officers and Men landed from the  Megaera Return of the number of Officers and Men landed from the  Tamar Nominal List of the thirteen Officers who have died up to last Returns: Nominal List of the fifteen Officers invalided up to last Returns: Nominal List of the nine Officers remaining sick at Cape Coast: List of the number of Men dead since the 1st day of July last: List of the number of Men invalided since the 1st day of July last: List of the number of Men in Hospital at last Return: And, Statement of the remaining Effective Force at Cape Coast Castle on the 14th day of May."
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he had to express his regret at the delay which had taken place in presenting the Return which was ordered in February. He understood, however, that it would be ready in two or three days, and he trusted he should be able to lay it on the table of the House in the course of the week. The delay had arisen from the pressure on the office in preparing the numerous Returns that had been ordered.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he had not intended to take any part in the discussion, but he could not allow the remarks of the hon. and learned Gentleman to pass without some notice. The hon. and learned Gentleman found fault with the Chancellor of the Exchequer because, on the strength of the evidence before him, that the plan formerly proposed by the hon. Member for Buckingham to his Select Committee would not answer, he proposed now to reject this new Resolution, which did not bind the House to that particular plan, but only to something which was perfectly vague and indefinite. The hon. and learned Gentleman said the Chancellor of the Exchequer was quite in the wrong if he called on the House to make the Income Tax a permanent part of our taxation without rectifying its inequalities. Now, in the first place, the Chancellor of the Exchequer was not at present asking the House to make the Income Tax permanent. If the right hon. Gentleman were proposing a Bill for that purpose, or if they were discussing the details of an Income Tax measure, it would have been open to the
 1759 d d d 1760 1761
 MR. BOVILL  said, he thought the House must be surprised at the charge made by the right hon. Gentleman against his hon. Friend, of raising expectations that could not be fulfilled, for if ever anyone had raised expectations upon the subject it was the right hon. Gentleman, when he declared that the Income Tax should not be permanent. Neither was it fair to say that, because the tax had been borne for twenty-two years, therefore the public had become habituated to it. The public had always deeply felt the inequalities and the injustice of the system; but they had tolerated them because they believed that the tax was not to be permanent. With respect to the Committee which had been appointed upon the Motion of his hon. Friend, he thought that there never was a Report which presented such unsatisfactory results. It admitted the inequalities, referred to evidence of which it gave no abstract, drew no conclusions, but printed the evidence at length. There was not a single gentleman of eminence examined who did not find fault with the mode in which the Income Tax was levied. The Report of the Committee was simply against the proposal of his hon. Friend, but the proposal now made by him was not of any particular plan, but was one which merely expressed the results of experience, and the opinions of most eminent statesmen. The tax had been tolerated in its present shape, because it was looked upon as a temporary tax, and therefore his hon. Friend was justified in
 1757 1758 d d d
 VISCOUNT INGESTRE  said, he should not oppose the second reading, but he should at the proper time move that it be referred to a Select Committee, with power to send for persons, papers, and records. He wished to put his opposition— if he might use the term — in the mildest form, for he was convinced that in the Potteries something must be done, but the question in his mind was how it should be done. He could not agree to the half-time system, believing-that children should not be employed in the Potteries at all under the age of ten years, and that was the prayer of the memorial, already re-
 1721
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I will not enter into the first part of the hon. Gentleman's Question, which is only argumentative, and, I think, is hardly Parliamentary. With regard to the latter part, I have no reason—but rather the contrary —to believe that when the Armistice was prolonged there was any decision in the Conference that that prolongation should be a final one. The Question is open to the Conference, which may prolong the Armistice or not at the expiration of the present term, according to the then existing circumstances.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that if in voting for the second reading they were called upon at once to commit themselves to the full length to which the preamble of the Bill, literally interpreted, would carry them, he should be unable to bind himself to that extent. He understood, however, that his hon. Friend was only desirous of having the principle affirmed, that the present law of forfeiture of lands and goods was one which ought not to be
 1805 1806
 MR. PACKE  said, the House was generally in favour of the Bill, but when he found that the alteration of the law was contained in three lines, he could not understand how the measure could be amended in Committee to suit the views of the Government. The wise course would be to withdraw the Bill, and leave
 1811
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that it appeared to him that the Bill would effect an improvement of the law, and the objections which had been urged to it did not alter his opinion on that point. The Bill did not interfere with the law relating to persons residing out of the United Kingdom, but with respect to persons in England and Ireland the effect of the Bill would be very much the same as if one legal jurisdiction extended over the two countries, and he could not help feeling that that was an improvement of the law.
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, his right hon. Friend the Home Secretary was prepared to give his support to the second reading of the Bill. He thought the hon. Gentleman deserved the thanks of the House for the great pains he had taken in the matter, and he might remind the right hon. Gentleman opposite that the measure was based on the Report of ft Select Committee. The Government, of course, could give no pledge to support all the provisions of the
 1819
 MR. BLACK  said, he was reluctant to oppose a measure which he knew was proposed with a desire to promote morality and good order amongst the servants in Scotland. If the hon. Member had preserved with the second part of the Bill, relating to farm servants, a great deal of good might have been done. As the Bill stood, however, he thought that the advantage in the case of female domestic servants would be altogether in favour of the master and against the servant. The knowledge on the part of masters and servants that they were compelled to live together for six months very often led to their making up their differences and living amicably together. As far as he had been able to learn, the proposed change was not desired by one person in then in Scotland, and he hoped it would not be allowed to be carried out. Among other public bodies, the highland and Agricultural Society was unanimously against it, and the great majority of the farmers were likewise opposed to it. He should move that the House should go into Committee on the Bill that day three months.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, the system which at present prevailed was a one-sided system, inasmuch as it was binding against the employer but not against the employed. He had once a keeper who, he discovered, was a great poacher, and, as he detected him in the act, he, of course, dismissed him upon the spot. But that man brought an action against him, and he (Mr. Baillie Cochrane) had actually to pay him six months' wages. Was not such a state of things monstrously unjust? With regard to farm servants, he could not agree in the opinion expressed by his hon. and gallant Friend behind him (Sir James Fergusson). He considered that the system of hiring for six months led to a state of things that was disgraceful to a civilized society. He regretted that the hon. and learned Gentleman had withdrawn that part of the Bill which related to farm servants. He trusted they would receive the amount of protection proposed by the Bill—namely, that in the absence of any specific agreement the hiring of servants should be held to be on the same basis as in England—namely, one month's warning or one month's wages.
 MR. DUNLOP  said, that as he had no opportunity of explaining the Bill on the second reading, he wished to advert to it now in reference particularly to that part regarding farm servants, for though he proposed dropping at present, in consideration of the farming interest having been, as they thought, taken by surprise, he would propose it again next Session. By the present law of Scotland, when servants were not hired for a stated period, it was presumed that the hiring extended to a term of six months, or a year, according to the nature of the service; and the result was that, at the end of that time, servants generally left their employments, and the constant separations between masters and servants led to great inconvenience. He proposed to remedy the evil by providing that, whenever the duration of a hiring was not specified, it should be deemed to be for an indefinite period, but terminable, as in England, by a month's notice on either side. No objection, he believed, was offered to the Bill as far as it regarded domestic servants, but the farmers were under considerable apprehensions as to its effect in respect to agricultural labourers. The case of farm servants was entitled to great sympathy and consideration. Formerly the distance between the farmer and the farm servant was not great. The latter lived with his master, and from the great number of small farms, and the little capital required to cultivate them, a steady form servant, if he saved a little money, might look forward to raising himself to the position of a farmer. The prospect of this was a great stimulus to good conduct, and a protection against the temptations to which that class are chiefly exposed. But now that farming was becoming more and more a pursuit of a manufacturing kind, and required more capital, the small farms were being swept away, and the relative position of the farmer and of the farm servant was becoming
 1820
 MR. DUNLOP  said, he agreed in the principle of the Bill, which, he thought, might with advantage be male to apply to all the three parts of the United Kingdom.
 MR. DUNLOP  said the class of whom he spoke was that of unmarried farm servants. He was glad the discussion had taken place, and he assured the hon. Member for Stirling that he would consider his suggestions. All he proposed was, that people should be left free to make a contract; but if they made no contract then the hiring should be for one month.
 MR. FINLAY  said, he hoped the Bill would pass, and he was only, sorry that the most important clause had been withdrawn.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he should shear with great regret that any course was adopted which-would have the effect of postponing the Bill. There were too many uncertainties attending every measure of law reform to allow him to view with satisfaction any step which might load to delay. The measure itself had his most cordial concurrence, and there was but one point with respect to which he entertained any doubt. During the time the late Government was in office, and while they were engaged in the consolidation of the statutes and the assimilation of the criminal law of England and Ireland, very attentive and mature consideration was given to the question, and the unanimous opinion of all concerned was that the law should undergo the alteration which it was the object of the present Bill to effect. The matter was submitted to the Cabinet, and but for the change of Government a measure similar to that before the House would have become law some five or six years previously. He thought the only doubtful question was, whether the abolition of the whole system of forfeiture should apply to oases of high treason? He hoped his hon. Friend would persist with the Motion.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he should support the Bill, on the ground that cruelty in the punishment of crime was a great mistake. In the reign of Henry VIII. the cook of the Bishop of Rochester poisoned two of his fellow-servants, and in order to show abhorrence for a crime which had been perpetrated in a Bishop's palace it was enacted that he should be boiled to death. The cook was literally boiled, but what became of him afterwards he could not say. But the second section of the Act said that the lands of the offenders against it should escheat to the lord of the fee. He should like to know whether the Act of Henry VIII. was repealed last year? What injustice would be done by depriving the lord of the fee of such rights as he possessed under that Act? Another offence, once common in Lancashire, was witchcraft. Witchcraft was a felony. A case was on record of ten or twelve witches being tried for murder by incantation, and several of them were executed, and their land was forfeited. The offence and the forfeiture were abolished, and the crime being no longer cognizable by law it had ceased. He trusted that Parliament would do away with the barbarous law of forfeiture. Was there a man more to be pitied than one who had fallen into crime? Were he poor or were he wealthy, his1 reputation was gone for ever. He could never show firs face in society again. And where was his property? It was taken from his family; and if the man came back: from his punishment, 'where was he to live and how was he to live; and what became of his family? The late Governor of the Wake-
 1808
 MR. HUNT  said, if the hon. Gentleman would consent to withdraw the Bill and leave the matter in the hands of the Government, he would not press his Amendment.
 MR. HUNT  explained that what he did say was, when a law had existed for centuries he always presumed there was good reason for it, and therefore he required good reasons for its abolition.
 MR. HUNT  said, he would not oppose the second reading of the Bill, because it contained several provisions which he approved, but he wished it to be understood that he did not pledge himself to the whole scheme of registration as proposed. He doubted the competency of the overseers to perform the duties which it was intended to impose on them. It was doubtful, for instance, whether they should be intrusted with the power of putting names on the lists without claims having been sent in. No doubt the clerks of the peace were competent, but he was not sure that it was expedient to intrust individuals with so great a power of affecting the political character of the registration. Another ground of objection to the Bill was the expense it would involve. The clerks of the peace throughout England had held a meeting on the subject, and it appeared that the Bill would involve the employment of more clerks, and the conduct of much correspondence. Considering that the existing system of registration was tolerably cheap, he thought the House would do well to consider whether they ought to make a change involving so much expense. It was impossible that the Bill should go through without being referred to a Select Committee upstairs, and he thought the hon. Member for Sussex would do well by contenting himself with carrying the second reading, and then circulating it through the country for consideration during the recess, so that it might come op advantageously for discussion in the next Session of Parliament.
 MR. HUNT  said, that the Bill had the merit of being a short one, the enacting part of it consisting of three lines and a word. It was a measure intended to abrogate a law which had existed for a great many centuries. Now, before he consented to abolish anything that had the sanction of antiquity he should certainly require the most excellent and substantial reasons. He was generally inclined to believe that a law which had existed for a great many hundred years, had good reasons to sustain it. The hon. Gentleman said that the law had
 1803 Blackstone 1804
 MR. BUTT  stated, that his hon. Friend; whose name was on the back of the Bill (Mr. Murray), had been in frequent communication with the Chambers of Commerce of Liverpool and Manchester, and they were in favour of the Bill; and he had himself repeatedly heard from mercantile men resident in England, that the state of the law occasioned great inconvenience. It might be said that it would be no great matter for an English merchant to provide the required security, but it was felt as an annoyance that in such cases the inhabitant of the one country should be treated as a foreigner in the other country, when both those countries formed part of the same United Kingdom, and it was his object to do away with all such distinctions between the two countries.
 MR. BUTT  said, he rose to move the second reading, of this Bill, the object of which was to remove a grievance arising out of, the existing state of the law. At present, if a person resident in England sued in an English court, or if a person resident in Ireland, sued in; an English court, he was obliged, before he could proceed with his action to give security for costs, because, as he was beyond the jurisdiction of the court n which he brought the action, that court bad no power of en-
 1812
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he thought that the House would hardly be induced to recognize the principle of he Bill, which was to alter, that most salutary provision
 1813
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, when he was Attorney General for Ireland it became part of his duty to look into the subject, and he came to the conclusion to which Sir Samuel Romilly had come—that it was not possible for the wit of man to suggest an argument to justify the forfeiture of goods and lands. The matter was laid before his colleagues, and they were called before the Cabinet of which his right hon. Friend near him (Sir John Pakington) was a. member to explain the proposal which they had agreed to recommend. The result was that a Bill was brought in which was afterwards withdrawn, and referred to the Committee which was then sitting on the subject of the Consolidation of the Criminal Law. That Committee was of opinion that they could not do more than consolidate the statute law of the two countries, and the subject, therefore, was not taken up by them. He was not quite sure that he had correctly followed the shadowy distinctions of the Attorney General, but ho was willing to proceed upon this broad principle—that if they took away a man's life they ought to be satisfied, and not to inflict a punishment undeservedly upon
 1807
 MR. DODSON  said, he rose to move the second reading of the measure, the main object of which, as based upon the Report of a Select Committee appointed earl; during the Session, was to amend the registration of county voters by improving the official agency. At present the duty of keeping tip the registration was left mainly to voluntary agents, who were paid out of -private funds. What happened? The clerk of the peace, after the commencement of the registration season, issued a very meagre precept-to the overseers to instruct them in their duties. The respective overseers then printed such parts of the existing register as related to their own parishes. Later in the season the overseers made out a list of claims sent to them by individuals. They had also power to make and to receive objections to persons on the lists various grounds, and such objections were posted upon the church doors. Unless the partly objected to resided in the parish and went to church, he knew nothing of the objection, and his name might be struck off the register. The arrangement proposed by the Bill was to send to the overseers a precept setting forth all their duties, those duties being, in some respects, of a more positive and active character. Each overseer was then to ascertain as best he could, from the rate book taken in conjunction with other sources of information, what persons had become entitled to vote or had become disqualified. It was proposed that they should make out a list, called the supplemental list, of all the persons newly entitled to the franchise. They were further to state their objections to voters disentitled, in every case assigning the reason why. The Bill further recognized what the existing law scarcely did recognize, namely, the importance of making the register a correct statement of points not essential to the vote, such as the addresses of the voters and the description of the qualification. The overseers were, therefore, to note any errors in the entries of voters in regard to these points. The materials thus collected
 1816 1817
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he had been struck by the curious language which had been used by almost every hon. Gentleman who had spoken on the subject. The hon. Gentleman who had brought in the Bill; and had supported his views with great candour and great power, spoke of the right principle upon which all punishment ought to be inflicted, and said that the present state of the law was unjust to the children. But he should like to know what punishment inflicted upon the father did not fall upon the children, and whether there was not high authority for visiting the children for the crimes of their parents? The hon. Gentleman who moved the Amendment said he had a great love foe anything that was ancient.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that the law against witches had existed for centuries, and therefore recommended itself to the hon. Gentleman. The Attorney General had spoken of the enormity of the of the offence. But what had the enormity of the offence to do with the punishment? Punishment ought to be inflicted only for' two purposes —first for reformation and then for prevention. He thought it was Bentham who said that if a crime could be prevented by a fine of a penny, then any infliction of pain beyond what such a fine would cause was wrong. Now, it was supposed-that the forfeiture of lands and goods was a means of preventing crime. But was that mode of prevention equivalent in the one scale to the pain and misery inflicted upon the family in the other? It was not a matter of sentiment, but of inquiry; The greater part of the crimes of society were committed by poor people. He did not state that for the purpose of showing that there was inherent vice in the poor, but
 1809
 MR. VANCE  said, he concurred with the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the Dublin University in the propriety of rejecting the Bill. The hon. and learned Gentleman said he brought forward the Bill in the interest of the mercantile community. He (Mr. Vance) was a member of that community, but he had never heard that any complaint bad been made of the
 1814
 MR. MARSH  said, he should support the Bill. It was an ancient principle of English law laid down by Blackstone, that no man should be fined beyond his means, but in this case a man was not only fined beyond his means, but was, deprived of tin: whole of his means.
 MR. MALINS  said, there seemed to be a general concurrence of opinion in the House in favour of the Bill, and he had no hesitation in giving it the support. He ventured to say that from the beginning of the world no one had been deterred from the commission of crime by the fear that he would lose his property and goods. Besides, the law as it stood was practically inoperative, as, because when an accusation was brought against a man, the first thing that was done was to make an assignment of his property to trustees for the benefit of his family. He knew himself of a case in which A man had in this way transferred property worth £30,000, and though he
 1810
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, it could not be denied that the present system of county registration was very unsatisfactory. Still the scheme proposed by the Bill was a wide scheme, and required consideration. If the hon. Member obtained a second reading for the Bill, he ought either to remit it to a Select Committee, or induce the Government to adopt it. Such a measure could not be accepted on the mere responsibility of an individual Member. If the hon. Gentleman would agree to either of these conditions, he would have no objection to the second reading.
 MR. COLLINS  said, it was probable there would be considerable opposition to the Bill, because it would interfere with the emoluments of country attorneys, who of course would enlighten' Members as to the great injury which would be done to their party thereby. The Bill, if passed in its present shape, would throw four-filths of the work done by election agents into the hands of public officers, and the agents would only have to supplement the work instead of doing it all, as at presents. The existing system was costly, not very efficient, and, in his opinion, rather discreditable. The duty of correcting the lists ought not to be left to voluntary effort. The Bill would be productive of one great advantage, that it would check the practice of making wholesale objections to voters in the hope that many of them would not appear to defend their rights. On one occasion, out of 24,000 names on the lists of voters for, South Lancashire, not less than 15,000 were objected to by one party or the other, and some of them were objected to by both parties; and such a fact showed that something ought to be done to alter the existing law upon the subject. Instead of sending the Bill to a Select Committee, he would suggest that the Government should be requested to give a morning sitting for the discussion of the main points of the Bill, and then it might be brought into a shape ready for being passed next Session.
 MR. W. EWART  seconded the Motion.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  thought that great inconvenience arose from the different character of the hiring in Scotland to what it was in the other parts of the United Kingdom. On the whole, he preferred the system that prevailed in Scotland.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he viewed the Bill as a harmless measure, inasmuch as it would not interfere with the practice in Scotland except in cases where there was no specific agreement entered into.
 MR. CHARLES FORSTER  said, that he regretted the subject of forfeiture on conviction of crime had not been dealt with at the time of the passing of the Criminal Acts Amendment Bill. The law of forfeiture was unjust in principle, inconvenient in practice, and was unworthy of modern civilization. It had its origin in remote times. It was the worst feature of the prosecutions of Sylla and Marius in Rome, and in the feudal times the rich adopted it as a means of robbing the poor. The law on the subject now in force in the country was substantially that which was defined by the Statute of  Edward II 1801 1802
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he concurred in the opinion that the provision in the Bill was a great improvement on the existing law, but he thought that some power should be given to prevent the institution of frivolous and vexatious actions. That, however, Was a matter which might be taken into consideration when a Bill of the Lord Chancellor's, then before the House of Lords, came down to the Commons.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had not the slightest difficulty in giving the assurance required by the hon. Baronet, though he thought it unnecessary after what had been stated by the Attorney General. His hon. and learned Friend had agreed in the principle of the Bill, that the goods of persons convicted of felony should not in all cases be forfeited, though there were certain cases in which he thought further inquiry necessary, with a view to ascertain whether the principle of total abolition should not be modified. The Attorney General thought it necessary to get information with respect to the working of the law in foreign countries. In France ho believed power was given to the Court in certain cases to impound the property either for the purposes of paying the expenses of the prosecution, or of giving compensation to persons who had suffered by the crime. His hon. and learned Friend had undertaken to look fully into the matter.
 MR. CAIRD  said, that as regarded that part of the proposal which related to farm servants the information upon which the hon. Gentleman had proceeded was of a limited nature, and did not apply to farm labourers throughout Scotland generally. He did not know a more intelligent or respectable class of men than the farm servants in Scotland. He deprecated the introduction of anything calculated to sever the connection which then existed between them and their masters. He be-
 1822
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  proposed to add corresponding words to the preample.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he doubted whether the Bill, if passed into law, would improve the condition or morality of the farm servants in Scotland. Statute fairs, though giving rise occasionally to scenes of impropriety, were yet a great boon to the respectable portion of the farm labourers. He doubted whether the hon. Gentleman had gone the right way to work in the remedy which he had proposed. In Scotland the farm servant held his cottage not from the lord of the manor but from the farmer who employed him, and if his hiring was terminable on a month's notice he might be turned out of his home at a time when he might not be able to get either work or a lodging. As regarded the farmer, a dishonest labourer, if he could leave at a month's notice, might quit his service at the most critical time of the crops, or, taking advantage of the month's notice, demand exorbitant wages. He thought, however, that the provisions of the Bill might be applied with advantage to domestic servants, who stood in a different position from agricultural labourers. He had heard great complaints in Scotland of the six months' engagement of domestic servants, and thought that the custom in England was preferable. To remedy the inconvenience felt from the old term being kept in some places with the new term in others, he would on some future occasion propose to provide that the half-yearly terms—where no stipulation to the contrary existed— should be the 11th May and 15th November.
 SIR MICHAEL SHAW STEWART  admitted that the measure would be worthy of their best consideration if it tended to diminish the evils attending the holiday system; but he doubted much whether any legislation in that shape would have the effect supposed by the hon. and learned Gentleman who introduced it.
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  said, he hoped they would not have a division, for, substantially, they were all agreed upon the subject, and if the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State would intimate that the matter would be taken up by the Government, the hon. Gentleman would do well to leave it in their hands. It was net desirable to pledge the House, as the Bill proposed to do, that it was expedient to abolish the forfeiture of lands and goods. All that ought to be done was to restrain the forfeiture. If forced to ft division, ho should be obliged to vote against the second reading, though he should be sorry not to meet the views of the hon. Mover.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, in reply, that the limitation referred to was not imposed by the Revised Code, but by the Committee of Council on Science and Art. It was obvious that the schoolmaster, who might be obliged to attend an elementary school two or three times a day, and was also bound to discharge the duty of superintending pupil-teachers, could not have much time to attend to the study of science and art. Schoolmasters were often ready to undertake these duties, and to overtax their strength; but it was clear that either the school and pupil-teachers, or the School of Science and Art, must be neglected.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, it was perfectly true that it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to finish a considerable number of guns that had been waiting for two or three years, which had been completed up to a state when it became necessary to rifle them. They were originally prepared as breech-loaders, on the wedge principle, and it was intended to convert them into muzzle-loaders, and to rifle them on the shunt principle. The reason fur this was owing to the delay which had taken place from various causes, but in a great measure from delays of which Mr. Whitworth was himself the cause. The trials only began two months ago, and they were not likely to be brought to a conclusion much before the termination of this year. The Admiralty had been for some time pressing for a supply of 70-pounder guns for the requirements of the service; and it was impossible to delay longer the providing them with one gun or another. They ultimately came to the conclusion that for the object for which these guns were intended muzzle-loading guns would be preferable to breechloaders; and as the shunt principle was one of which the department had had most experience, and had already produced very favourable results, it was decided to rifle them upon that principle. Besides that, it must be recollected that these guns were manufactured by Sir William Armstrong and adapted to his principle, and probably it would not at all have been satisfactory if
 1839 Excellent
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : I hope, Sir there is no reason to suppose that 1.000 of the men at Cape Coast Castle have died; on the contrary. the last Return received from there showed that the rank and file, at least, were not suffering from any great amount of sickness. The promise which was given by my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Colonies was, I believe that those troops who had been sent from the West Indies to the Gold Coast for the objects of this war should be removed, and that the force at the Gold Coast should be reduced to its normal strength. It had been decided, long before the outbreak of hostilities, that the force permanently to be stationed at the Gold Coast should for the future consist of one battalion. The removal of these 500 or 550 men from Cape Coast will leave between 700 and 800 men, which is the force that it is proposed permanently to station there.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : It is quite true that within the last year thirteen officers have died on the Gold Coast, and about the number which has been mentioned by my hon. Friend were invalided. The Returns have been laid on the table this evening, and will be in the hands of Members to-morrow.
 CAPTAIN TALBOT  asked when the transport was taken up for this service?
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, be could assure the House that if the tone and language of the hon. Gentleman had been such that the Government could accede to his Motion, they would gladly have done so. In 1860 very largo and new powers had been given to the Commissioners, and there could be no more legitimate subject of inquiry than whether those powers had been exercised for the public good, and whether they might be further extended for the public advantage. Had that been the object of the hon. Gentleman, and had his speech been consistent with that object, the utmost that could have been said was that the Session being so far advanced the time was not propitious for an inquiry, which must necessarily be an extended one, but that the subject deserved attention; and, speaking on the part of the Government, he might have given the hon. Gentleman the assurance that the Committee for which he asked should be appointed at the beginning of the next Session. But the speech of the hon. Gentleman had not been directed to the real substantial merits of the question—namely, whether or not the powers intrusted to the Commissioners had been exercised for the public good. From first to last the speech of the hon. Gentleman had been a personal attack against the members constituting the Board and their subordinate. From the highest to the lowest none had escaped his personal invective. The character of the Commissioners was too well known to the large majority of Members of that House to need any defence from him.
 1867 1868 1869 "Mr. Offley Martin was sent down as an Inspector. He had evidence publicly given him of the state of the charity, and himself visited the almshouses and inspected part of the estates. Any person who desired to say anything to him was fully heard. Finally a scheme was passed, and this scheme, and all the proceedings connected with it, did not cost the charity one single farthing. If we had been compelled, as we cer-
 1870 "Those who attack the Board and call its proceedings secret can know little of its acts. Every scheme it proposes is fully made known and published, and full opportunity is given to object to any part of it before it is established. We had meetings at Usk to Criticize our proposed scheme, and it had been sent down to be made publicly known and for the purpose of inviting objections to it. If the scheme had been in the Court of Chancery it would have been kept in chambers, and who could have been heard against it, or by whom would the costs of an opposition have been payable? There is far move publicity and efficient responsibility attached to the proceedings of the Board of Charity Commissioners than can by any possibility be connected with proceedings in the Court of Chancery. Any person who will, even unfairly, undertake to examine the subject, will be compelled to conclude that the institution of the Board was the most important, useful, and economical measure to secure the preservation and due administration of charity funds, and for the supervision of Trustees which could have been devised. Its aid and assistance are sought for on all sides. Was the aid of the Court of Chancery ever so sought after? It cannot be imagined that the extravagant, improvident, and —remembering the good which might have been done—the almost wicked schemes relating to certain great charities sanctioned by the Court of Chancery, and mentioned by Mr. Cumin in the fourth volume of the Education Commission Report, 1861, would have been listened to by the Board of Charity Commissioners." locus standi? 1871
 MR. MONTAGUE SMITH  said it was no part of this duty to defend a Whig Government, or the appointments which in the natural order of things may have been made of gentlemen of Whig politics, but knowing the Commissioners whose characters had been so freely assailed by his hon. Friend he felt bound to rise and declare his belief that the charges made against them were utterly unfounded. The noble Lord, who was at the head of the Government when the Commissioners were appointed, made the appointments, he believed, only in reference to the ability and integrity of those who were selected. As far as Mr. Erle, the Chief Commissioner, whom he had knew for many years, was concerned he was satisfied that a more honourable, just, and conscientious man did not exist. If he had any politics at all, they were of the mildest character, and he certainly would not allow any tinge of political feelings to enter into his decisions. His hon. Friend, who made the present Motion, had spoken of the inundation of anonymous letters he had received containing complaints against the Commissioners. In should be borne in mind that the Commissioners in the exercise of their jurisdiction must disappoint a great number of persons. Against whom decisions were given, They had to consider most delicate questions. Involving matters of great personal feeling, and it was natural that those against whom they decided should feel some disappointment, and no doubt his hon. Friend had been the recipient the expression of their disappointment. There was, however, one fact which weighed more in his mind than a thousand letters of complaints which his
 1872 1873
 MR. J. A. SMITH : Sir, being connected with one of the persons whom the hon. Member has thought fit to charge with offensive and disgraceful conduct I hope the House will permit me to make a few observations. Mr. Grey is charged with having paid his attorney's bill through the appointment of Mr. Boase; which he had solicited and procured. Now, if the hon. Member had shown me the courtesy of giving me notice of his intention to make this charge, I Should have been prepared with ample evidence to meet a charge so utterly and gratuitously false. I must confess however, I am perfectly easy under the charges he has made, and I cannot believe that any Gentleman in this House is justified in attaching much importance to accusations brought forward by the hon. Member in so wild, so careless, and so reckless a manner. Under ordinary circumstances I should be inclined to concur with the hon. Member for Liskeard in the opinion that it was desirable to grant a Committee of Inquiry in the face of charges of so grave a character; but I do think and feel that the hon. Member for Devonport has lost the right of calling for an inquiry of this kind. The grounds upon which I make that assertion, upon which I shall vote against the Motion, are to be found in the Journals of this House. I find the following statement on the Journals of the House. On the 10th of April, 1844, the House agreed to the following Resolution:—
 "That the said Sir James Graham and James Weir Hogg, esq., having in their places denied the imputations cast upon them, and William Bushfield Ferrand, esq., having avowed that he had used the said expressions, and having declined to substantiate the truth of them, this House is of opinion that the imputations conveyed in the said expressions are wholly unfounded and calumnions, and that they do not affect in the slightest; degree the honour and the character of the Members to whom they were applied." 1881
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUSE  explained that the community was exceedingly primitive in its character. He was unable to say whether those Gentlemen received any additional income from local revenues.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he would be glad to know what sort of supervision was
 1892
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  observed, that among the other duties of the emigration officers was this—they were not only to assist emigration from this country but to see that the people went to a fair field for their labour on leaving this country. He wanted to know if they had taken any trouble with respect to those emigrants who were leaving Ireland and going to the United States for the purpose of being murdered at so many dollars a head. That was an important question. It was their duty to see that these unfortunate people, leaving their country under false pretences, were protected, and had a fair field to go to for the exercise of their labour.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, an immense number of unfortunate people from Ireland went over to America without the slightest intention of enlisting, and get entrapped there. He knew an instance of a man who on arriving at the other side of the water fell in with people who gave him drink, and when he awoke he found himself in the uniform of the United States' army, and was told that he had enlisted, and if he refused to serve he should be shot. He was sent to the scene of war, fought for six months, and, luckily for himself, got ague. They then sent him into hospital, and after a time he made his escape at the risk of being shot, and got home to Ireland. The same thing had happened to several. Why should not the Government call upon the Consular authorities in the United States to put a stop to doings of that kind? At that moment a great number of our soldiers were about to be discharged after their ten years' service, and he had reason to believe that there were Federal agents in this country for the purpose of catching them, to become non - commissioned officers in the Federal army if it was in existence, as he hoped it was not at the present moment.
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, it was all very well for the hon. Member for Swansea to talk of the Government not interfering with the emigrants. But it was generally believed that they had encouraged the emigration of Irishmen to North America, and allowed the North American authorities to enlist men in Ireland for the purpose of recruiting their armies, while the same privilege was not given to the Southern States. The object of spending money on emigration was to open fresh labour markets; but the Government certainly ought to explain how it was that emigration was made the means of enlistments which were not only contrary to our own laws, but those of the United States.
 MR. DAWSON  asked for an explanation of the item of £29,550 to make good a loss on transactions of the Treasury Chest?
 MR. PEEL  said, that the transactions of the Treasury resulted in a profit everywhere except in China. The profit this year amounted to over £10,000 a year, but the loss in China was caused by the difference between the army rate of the dollar and the price at which it was purchased. The rate at which the dollar was entered in the army accounts was 4 s d s d s d
 MR. PEEL  said, the same explanation applied to all the items. The money was paid in dollars, but bills had to be purchased for those dollars at the rate of 4 s d
 SIR GEORGE BOWYEE  said, he would
 1906 Caveat consul ne quid respublica detrimenti capiat
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, he wished to know what were Mr. Odo Russell's duties
 1907
 MR. ESMONDE  said, that having suffered from the inconvenience of having to apply to the Consul at Rome, he wanted to know whether it was necessary that such application should be required before obtaining the police permission to leave Borne? He understood that the proceeding upon which a small fee was paid, was not necessary as regards French and Americans. The reason why the discussion had wandered into the question of our diplomatic relations with Rome was because the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs had lost his temper. He thought the question might be narrowed to the necessity for a Consul which at present occasioned to travellers a delay in leaving Rome. He also wished to know if the fees were included in the salary of £290. Mr. Odo Russell held an anomalous position in Rome, and he might illustrate it by repeating a rumour that had reached him, that Mr. Odo Russell had declined to preside at a Shakesperian festival in Rome, on account of his anomalous position, he having no  locus standi
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, he had asked a plain question of the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs, and he wished for an answer, namely, what were Mr. Odo Russell's duties, and what was his salary? He had not asked for the information for the purpose of opposing the Vote but for information. He wished to know how it was he was required there as well as a Consul?
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, that after the full explanation of the noble Viscount he could not conceive that the Amendment could be pressed. It was as clear as possible that the distinction between the post of Mr. Odo Russell and the Consul was great. The Court of Rome did not choose to have a representative from England unless he was an ecclesiastic; but, that the Government should know politically what was going on at Rome, the Court of Rome permitted a gentleman attached to the embassy to another State to fill the post. There were those who would have no diplomatic arrangements with the Pope; there were others who were satisfied at having agents at Rome to let us know what political intrigues were going on there. He thought it desirable that we should have a person like Mr. Odo Russell at Rome. On the other hand, he thought there ought to be a Consul at Rome to assist the travellers passing through the country. The Vote was on the question of salary. A Committee of which he was a member reported in favour of a Consul, with a salary, but without fees; and he hoped the Committee would affirm their opinion. If the consular functionary elsewhere were paid by salary, why not at Rome also.
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  understood that the question to report Progress had been raised.
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, his hon. Friend (Mr. Griffith) seemed to fancy that the only duty of a Consul was to take fees. Now, the duties of these officials were almost endless; and he could not understand why a small fee should not be paid by those who received the benefit of their services. If everything of that kind was to be done for nothing, the British public would be some £15,000 a year out of pocket.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that the Commissioners had decided no case under the Act of last Session. All that they had done had been under a previously existing Act.
 MR. ESMONDE  said, in many cases the Commission had done great injustice.
 MR. C. P. BERKELEY  said, that the reason was that the  Barracouta,
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, it was his intention on Monday next to bring in a Bill for the prevention of certain contagious diseases in certain naval and military stations. He proposed to ask the House to read the Bill a second time, and then refer it to a Select Committee. He should be glad if hon. Members who took an interest in the subject would serve on the Committee.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : She was taken up immediately upon the requisition of the War Office; I think on the 26th of May, or about the end of that month. We have had her fitted out at once; the men have been working day and night to get her ready.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : I cannot tell my hen. Friend the name. She is, however, a sailing ship.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : To-day the  Gladiator
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : The reason we have sent the transport to the Cape de Verd Islands is in order to save time. She would have to beat up against contrary winds in order to get to Cape Coast Castle, and we think time will be saved by sending the  Gladiator
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Sir, I will state the arrangements which have been made for removing the troops which it is intended to transfer from Cape Coast Castle to the West Indies. We have taken up a transport, which is to proceed, and will be ready to proceed, in two days, to the Cape de Verd Islands. We have likewise ordered the  Gladiator Gladiator
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : The number of those whom it is intended to remove is slightly above 500.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he wished to call attention to the insufficiency of the salaries paid to the sub-Inspectors of factories. The scheme for their increase which had been proposed by the Government had not given satisfaction, and he hoped that the Home Secretary would reconsider the matter, and would next year propose some further increase of their pay.
 MR. AYRTON  observed, that the  visa 1909
 MR. AYRTON  observed, that under the head of "United States" it was proposed to vote a sum for Consuls at Richmond, Charleston, Savannah, and Mobile. From correspondence on the table it appeared that the President of the Confederate States was extremely anxious that the Consuls who were originally appointed to the United States should remain at their posts in the Confederate States. And Lord Lyons urged very strongly upon the Foreign Office the desirableness of acceding to the view of President Davis, and he also cautioned Her Majesty's Government against taking any step that would necessarily give offence to the Government of the Confederate States. The Foreign Office, nevertheless, seemed to have gone out of its way to place these Consuls in a very invidious position, and President Davis was compelled to call upon them to leave the Confederate States. But as their salaries were to be continued till 1865,
 1902
 MR. AYRTON  said, his experience led him to believe that English Consuls abroad rather encouraged the police to insist on travellers getting their passports  viséd,
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, he would remind hon. Members that a large proportion of the emigration was conducted at the instance of the colonies, which provided the necessary means. He should lament any diminution of the usefulness of the Emigration Board, which consisted of very efficient men.
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  inquired whether Victoria and all the provinces of New Zealand did not take up their own ships and manage their own emigration?
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, he would remind the hon. Member that Parliament had granted compensation to those islands to the extent of £20,000,000.
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, that Governor Dallas was nominated by the Hudson's Bay Company, and was not the representative of the Crown. He supposed that the Vote entirely represented pensions, and had nothing to do with the distribution of presents to the Indians, which had an injurious effect, as the presents were often exchanged for ardent spirits.
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, he wished to ask for an explanation of the item of £1,000 for the High Commissioner of British Caffraria; and also to inquire whether any measures had been taken to annex British Caffraria to the Cape Colony, as had been in contemplation a few years ago.
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, his objection to the payment was, it tended to make the island unproductive and the people indolent. If grants of that kind were continued, no effort would be made to raise a larger revenue. He should support the redaction on the simple principle that the colonies, which we wished to make self-supporting, ought to do something to support themselves.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, there was an allowance to the Chief Justice of St. Kitt's, and that Anguilla was a mere dependency. Last year the Chief Justice was called Chief Justice of Anguilla.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  complained that in the case of these West India Islands the expenditure in almost every case exceeded the revenue.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he thought the colonial revenue should be called upon to meet expenditure for colonial purposes. It was true that of late steps in that direction had been take, but further progress should be made. A colony with a local revenue, which had increased from £11,000 to £17,000 a year, and a population of only 12,000 inhabitants might well be required to meet its own expenses.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  asked for information as to the increase of salaries to Consuls. They, had increased from £135,000 to £138,000, and he should like to know why there were so many consulships in which the fees were not credited. If the fees were part of the salary, that ought to be stated. He thought that many Consulships, at Venice, Leipsic, Warsaw, were excessive. As for the Consulate at Reunion, to which he had always objected, he thought the expense of it should be defrayed out of the funds of our East Indian territories.
 MR. LAYARD  said, that the cases to which the lion. Member for Lambeth (Mr. Williams) had referred were exceptional, for the Consuls General at Venice, Warsaw, and Morocco had to discharge important diplomatic functions. He took credit to the Foreign Office for the reductions which had already been effected in that branch, while at the same time the recom-
 1901 "The check placed in 1861 upon consular expenditure by the new system of keeping and managing the consular accounts continues to answer admirably. We now know, which no one did before, what money will really be required, and what sum is actually used. In 1803–4, the expenditure was less than the sum voted by £11,273, and in the three years just ended we have spent less than the sum voted by £34,844. This surplus, which is created by our going on the safe principle of asking for rather more than we think absolutely necessary, reverts, under a modern financial scheme, to the Exchequer, and is re-voted as revenue. The fees levied on Government account ought also to be carried to the credit of the consular services, and the demand upon the public for the payment of those services would then be reduced to the sum which would really show the actual charge to the country. For instance, the sum paid for consular services in 1863–4 was £165,269 19s. 1d., but we collected fees amounting to £15,206 6s.  3d.; 2d
 MR. LAYARD  said, that the Governor of Labuan was also Consul General.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he could not allow the unjustifiable observations of the hon. Gentleman to pass unnoticed. Such an accusation as that made by the hon. Member against a body of English gentlemen
 1903 A laugh.
 MR. LAYARD  said, that the Consul General had commercial as well as diplomatic duties to perform. The Consul General at Venice was not independent of the embassy at Vienna.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he had written to Rome to make inquiries on the subject. He could not understand why English travellers should be put to more trouble than French and American travellers as to the  viséing
 MR. LAYARD  said, that as soon as there was a good Government in Rome there would no longer be any necessity for a British Consul in the city. It was perfectly true that Mr. Odo Russell resided at Rome, but it should be remembered that that gentleman was precluded by Act of Parliament from bearing any recognized relation to the Papal Government, and that consequently no official communication could be conveyed through him. The passports were purely a police arrangement. He would inform himself of the regulations of the Government at Rome, and if they proved to be vexatious he would do his best to remedy them.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he believed every hon. Member was well aware what Mr. Odo Russell's functions were. ["No!"] If they did not, he scarcely knew how to explain them. Mr. Odo Russell's position had been described as anomalous, and to a certain extent it was so; and because under an Act of Parliament this country could not maintain a diplomatic agent at Rome, Mr. Odo Russell held a position in the Italian embassy, but with not a very large salary. His duties were quite distinct from those of the Consul. There were, for instance, duties connected with the wills and property of British subjects which required the attention and signature of an official who was recognized by the Roman Government. These duties, which could not be performed by Mr. Odo Russell, were discharged by Mr. Severn.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he must remind hon. Members it was not a question of the interests of the Consul. The fees were not received for his own benefit, as they were paid into the Treasury. The Select Committee on the consular system recommended the payment of the fees. The  visas
 MR. LAYARD  said, the £290 was, of course, paid into the Exchequer, and the amount of the salary would be reduced by so much.
 MR. LAYARD  stated that the Mixed Commission Courts had jurisdiction in cases which could not be dealt with by the Vice Admiralty Courts. Where there were neither flags nor papers the Vice Admiralty Courts might condemn the vessels, but could not touch the captains and owners, whereas the Mixed Commission Courts could do both. The consequence was, that when a vessel was chased, the flags and papers were thrown overboard to avoid being taken before the Mixed Commission. If they abolished the Mixed Commission these vessels would retain their flags and papers, and the persons connected with them would escape with impunity. On the coast of Africa the Mixed Commission Courts were found very effective in the suppression of the slave trade; and, besides, they were bound by treaty to keep them up. An arbitrator had been-appointed at the Cape of Good Hope, out of courtesy to the American Government; but elsewhere the post of arbitrator and registrar had not been filled up, and he hoped that in Course of time they might make arrangements by which those officers might be still further reduced in number.
 MR. LAYARD  replied that the officers in question were appointed by the Foreign Office on the nomination of Consul General Crawford, who had, perhaps, done more for the suppression of the slave trade than any other man living, and who would not recommend any one in whom he had not entire confidence.
 MR. LAYARD  replied, that he could not say that it was owing to unfriendly feeling on the part of the Portuguese Government, but he believed that the slave-trading operations carried on by Portuguese colonists in a great measure tended to produce the result.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he could not say but that there might be some small balance yet to be made up.
 MR. LAYARD  stated, that the Niger Expedition, so far from being a failure, had been attended with a great success, and there was a strong feeling in favour of the Vote among mercantile men.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he was aware that some persons thought so, but a large number were of a contrary opinion.
 MR. LAYARD  said, that when vessels were captured with colours and papers they were taken to the Mixed Commission Courts, which alone could deal efficiently with the cases, but when there were no papers or colours the matter went before Vice Admiralty Courts. With regard to the  Castilia,
 MR. LAYARD  said, he regretted to say that the expedition had failed. Dr. Livingstone had left the country, and was on his route home by way of India. The expedition would be given up altogether, and this, therefore, would be the last Vote asked for.
 MR. LAYARD  said, they could come home.
 MR. LAYARD  said, that until Dr. Livingstone returned to England it would be impossible to give a full explanation to the House. Dr. Livingstone would return to this country, and Government did not think it right to spend any further money for the prosecution of the expedition.
 MR. LAYARD  said, it was because he was not paid.
 MR. LAYARD  said, that if the hon. Member would look at the Estimates, he would find that the amount of the consular fees had been annually increasing since 1860.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he hoped the Committee would allow the Vote to pass. He would inquire as to the state of the Russia Company.
 MR. LAYARD , in reply, said, he believed Sir Macdonald Stephenson had been travelling in China, but certainly not at the expense of the Foreign Office, He
 1837
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he should be exceedingly sorry to give any vote which would appear in the slightest degree to reflect upon the Charity Commissioners or
 1877
 MR. ADDERLEY  wished to repeat a question relative to a matter on which he had previously sought information. He wished to know whether certain ecclesiastical payments in the West Indies were to continue to be voted by Parliament.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he could not perceive any inconsistency in the argument of the hon. Member for the King's County. According to the principle laid down by the right hon. Gentleman, a barren rock would be best entitled to a grant of public money, Again, the smallnesso'
 1887
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, the Vole provided, for the service of one clergyman at £50 and two magistrates at £30 each. He wished to ask for some explanation.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he wished to know what was done by that body, having its offices in an obscure back street, and with no public funds at its disposal beyond the salaries of its members. It appeared that some of the colonies had emigration agents of their own in this country, while other colonies had their emigration business conducted by that Board. He believed that but for that business the Board would have very little work of any kind to perform.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he had attacked that Vote for many years. When he first began there were three Commissioners. By perseverance he got the number reduced to two, and he believed that if they were further reduced to a single Commissioner he would be quite sufficient for all the duties of the Board.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he wished to maintain the salary of our Consul within the dominions of the Sovereign of the Ro-man States. That, he believed, was the term used in diplomatic language.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he was anxious to express the reasons why he thought it important that England should have a
 1905
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, the Emigration Commissioners had assured him that there was no reason to believe that those enlistments had actually been the cause of any considerable increase of emigration. The number of able-bodied single men emigrating had but little increased.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, of course, the emigration must in a great measure be regulated on the spot. But then it was absolutely necessary that the Government at home should superintend the whole process, which was conducted under the strictest rules for the protection of the emigrants. Those rules
 1895
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, there was, in fact, only one Commissioner now. There were certain duties which were required by law to be performed by two Commissioners, and for the purpose of enabling that to be done the Secretary had received powers to perform those duties.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, that the Secretary to the Board (Mr. Walcott) had been appointed Second Commissioner as well as Secretary.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  replied, that it was not for the Emigration Commissioners, or any Department of the Government, to undertake the paternal duty of persuading emigrants to go to one country rather than another. With respect to unassisted emigrants, their duty simply was to carry out the provisions of the Passengers Act. With respect to assisted emigrants, they chartered the vessels, appointed officers, and exercised a very strict control.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, that was not the case with regard to Victoria. He believed it was true of New Zealand.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, the number could be given, but it would only represent one portion of the duties of the Board.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, that the Emigration Board was one of the most effective of our public departments, with important and onerous duties to perform. The Board, by the desire of the colonies in question, superintended the emigration to Victoria, Western Australia, and Port Natal. The Board chartered the ships, appointed the surgeons, and looked after the emigration depôts. Another important branch of its duties was to superintend and work the Passenger Act. No doubt breaches of that Act occasionally occurred, but they would be still more numerous if the Board did not exist. The Emigration Board had also to superintend the great system of Coolie emigration from the East Indies and China to the West Indian colonies and the Mauritius. That necessitated frequent communication with the Colonial and Indian Offices. The Board chartered the ships and advised the Secretary of State for the Colonies on all matters relating to emigration, and also on questions affecting the management and disposal of the Crown lands in all colonies where they had not been made over to the local Government. It was also called upon to report upon every despatch from the West Indian Colonies, the Mauritius, and Natal, relative to emigration in all its branches. The Colonial Office was thus brought into constant communication with the Emigration Board, and derived the most valuable assistance from the long experience and ability of the Emigration Commissioners. The Board likewise embodied in its Colonization Circular advice relative to the wages, demand for labour, and means of reaching the colonies.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, the Committee could hardly form an
 1891
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, that the despatches to which the right hon. Gentleman referred Were not included in the papers which had been laid before Parliament—first, because they did not come within the terms of the Motion of the hon. and gallant Gentleman, and, in the next place because it did not appear to those who prepared the papers that they would throw any additional light upon the subject. If, however, the right hon. Gentleman and the House wished to know more of the differences of opinion which occurred as to the conduct last year of the war in defence of the protected territories, and of the part which was taken by the then commanding officer. Major Cochrane, he knew no reason why those despatches should not be produced. He would endeavour to lay them on the table to-morrow.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, that the distinction made in the case of Western Australia arose from the circumstances of its being to a great extent a penal colony to which the mother country sent her convicts.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  thought the hon. Member for the King's County had treated the House with an original argument in stating that because the colony was poor and its revenue was only £414 it should not be assisted in providing for the-support of a magistrate. It was simply because the island was so poor that the House was asked to pay the salary of a stipendiary magistrate.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, that those payments were charged by Act of Parliament upon the Consolidated Fund, and had never appended on the Votes.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, that the allowance of £1,000 to the Governor of the Cape, as High Commissioner British Caffraria, was paid to him not solely in his character of Governor of the Cape Colony, but rather in his diplomatic character as administrator 0f Foreign affairs in connection with our South African settlements. In answer to the hon. Member's second question, he had to state that no arrangement had yet been made for annexing British Caffraria to the Cape of Good Hope, and that it still continued a separate settlement.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, the Vote was strictly for expiring life-pensions paid to Indians who were formerly in our service.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he perfectly recollected the case to which the hon. Gentleman referred. The conduct of Indian affairs had been handed over to the Canadian Government, and in consequence of that transfer the Vote had been reduced from many thousands a year to the trifling sum of £1,000, which went in pensions to some old Indians who had served the British Crown in former wars. Under these circumstances, all power and responsibility having been transferred to Canada, we could not undertake to dictate what course the Canadian Government should pursue in their dealings with the Indian tribes as to the sale of their lands or any matter of that kind. Anil although he knew that the Duke of Newcastle did interest himself in this matter, and did make inquiries regarding it while in Canada, yet officially he did not think it his duty to interfere.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, that a Liberal Government ought not to defend the system, which was one of the most irregular that could be conceived. The great reason why he was disposed to join in the Amendment was in the requisition made for fees. A great deal of virtuous indignation had been expressed on the Treasury Benches in the diplomatic way to which they were all accustomed, but he would say—
 "O fortunatam natam me consule Romam."
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he thought it unworthy of the country to take back in fees £250 of the £500 paid to the Consul at Rome. He wished to know what the sentiments of the noble Lord at
 1912
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he had heard a good many strange things in his time, but he had never heard anything more astonishing than the allegation that the Government and the Emigration Commissioners had encouraged these enlistments. It was not the duty of the Emigration Commissioners to tell the people where to go, but they provided them with information as to various colonies. The anecdotes told by the hon. and gallant Gentleman opposite showed how blameless the Emigration Commissioners were in that matter, for the men of whom he spoke never intended to enlist at all. He could not sit down without bearing his testimony to the valuable, praiseworthy, and conscientious services of the Emigration Commissioners.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, there could be no doubt that the territory in question was British territory, and that the Sovereign of that territory was the Sovereign of Great Britain; but it was also known that it was under the Government of the Hudson's Bay Company Governor Dallas was a gentleman exceedingly Well known, and a most valuable servant of the Hudson's Bay Company.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he would admit that if the revenue of the colony were able for a series of years to maintain its own expenses, there would be no ground for asking a vote for the purpose from that House; but such was not the case.
 MR. CARDWELL  observed, that the subject had no reference whatever to the vote before the committee. The territory in question was not in Canada or under Canadian authority, but under that of the Hudson's Bay Company. He had stated on a former occasion that permission had been given, and he had the pleasure to add that it had never been acted upon.
 MR. CARDWELL  replied, that the Chief Justice visited the island in the discharge of his judicial duties, but he did not act as a magistrate.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, the island was sixty miles from St. Kitt's, that the resident magistrate had died last year, and that it was deemed necessary to appoint some one who would see that justice was administered and order maintained among its 2,500 inhabitants.
 MR. CARDWELL : I believe this is the minimum.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that when the Estimate was framed, the Colonial Office had received an intimation from the Governor that he had drawn £1,900 for raising levies of troops. That being the only information in the possession of the Office, it was thought right to ask for a Vote of £2,000. He had received no information which would enable him to lay any other Estimate before the House.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he was anxious to give the fullest information to the House at the earliest moment, and if a desire existed to postpone the Vote he should be happy to consult the convenience of the House. The Return produced had been prepared in accordance with the terms of the Motion, but further papers should be forthcoming if desired.
 MR. CARDWELL  observed, that the House, knowing the largely increased emigration from Liverpool that year, would not be surprised that an additional officer had been found necessary.
 MR. DOULTON  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, What are the difficulties in the way of carrying into effect the City Traffic Regulation, Act of last Session, and whether any steps have been taken for their removal?
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, there were £400 in the Vote for the salary of the Consul, and £100 for his office expenses. Against that Vote he saw £290. He wished to know whether it was the difference between those two items that was now asked for.
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, he wished to know whether a Consul General was not bound to perform the duties of an ordinary Consul, and whether the Consul General at Venice was instructed to act independently of the mission at Vienna?
 MR. HADFIELD  inquired, whether the failure of the expedition was to be attributed to the unfriendly feeling of the Portuguese Government?
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he would support the hon. Member for Dundalk if that Gentleman would follow up his remarks by
 1904
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he thought that the existence of a Consul at any place should be the evidence of some trade or commercial relations, but he believed the Roman Government, whether at Rome or in any other part of the world, to be inimical to all commercial interests.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he wished to ask what the hon. Member for North Warwick shire meant by saying that the relations between the English people and the Roman people ought to be maintained He submitted that in the appointment of a Consul at Rome, we knew nothing of the Roman people.
 MR. MOOR  inquired how the Commissioners sitting in Park Street could possibly regulate the coolie emigration between China and the West Indies when they were not upon the spot where the emigration was going on.
 MR. PAULL  asked, whether, as the expedition had failed, that was the last Vote that would be proposed on account of the expedition?
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he could not agree in the propriety of keeping a consul at Rome for the mere convenience of British travellers, as the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs assigned that as the only reason for that official's presence there. It was well known that the English Government had a diplomatic representative at Rome, in the person of Mr. Odo Russell, whose services would be quite sufficient for all purposes. The presence of a consul was chiefly for commercial purposes, but as we carried on no commerce with Rome he considered that such an officer was useless there. He should, therefore, move that the Vote be reduced by the sum of £400, the salary allowed him.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  asked, if there was a Consul at Florence, why his name was not inserted in the Vote?
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he should move that the Chairman report Progress.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, if that were the case he would ask, why should the Consul at Rome be paid?
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, there were many important points still to be raised on that Vote, and among others the small amount of the fees received by the Government since the Consuls had to pay them over to the Treasury. He did not see how they were to keep down the Estimates if they did not look into these small items. The patronage connected with the Consular Department was believed to have been much abused; and a few years ago they had the case of one Consul at the Dardanelles making off with a very large sum of the public money.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether Sir Macdonald Stephenson has lately been travelling in China, at the expense of the British Government, or at his own expense, merely with the sanction, of the Foreign Office; and if he will lay upon the table of the House his Report on the possibility of introducing Railways into China?
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said he wished to ask Whether it is true, that of fifty-one officers landed at Cape Coast Castle thirteen had already died, while ten others were sick from the effects of climate? Also whether, but of 1,400 men landed, 600, within short time after their arrival, were. either dead on invalided?
 MR. HUSSEY VIVIAN  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether there is any truth in the report that it is the intention of the Government to convert a considerable number of Armstrong Breech-loading Guns into Muzzle-loaders, and to rifle them on Sir William Armstrong's shunt principle; and, if so, whether he will lay upon the table of the House a Copy of any Report, or the results of any experiments, on which it has been resolved to adopt the shunt principle of rifling?
 MR. BUTT  said, he would take that occasion to call attention to the inadequate remuneration of the Special Commissioners of Irish Fisheries, especially the legal Commissioner, and to move that the Vote be reduced by the sum of £1,455, the salaries and expenses of the Commissioners for Ireland. He took the course of moving the reduction, because it was only by doing so that he could raise the question which he wished to bring under the notice of the House.
 MR. CLAY  asked for some explanation with respect to the state of the Russia Company.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, the House was in some respects responsible. There were three Commissioners who had £300 a year each, and they had jurisdiction over property amounting to £300,000 a year. He was only surprised that a member of the bar would accept such a salary for such services.
 MR. WHITESIDE  desired to know the principle which actuated the Foreign Office in their retention of consulships. The hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs had said that if the Roman Government were a good one there would be no Consul at Rome. He would like to know whether the Foreign Office decided upon maintaining the consulships of this country in accordance with the views which might be taken by the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs of the excellence of the Governments of the different countries abroad.
 MR. WHITESIDE  asked the hon. Gentleman to state what were Mr. Odo Russell's functions.
 MR. BLAKE  said, the whole amount appeared to be devoted to the salary of a schoolmaster.
 MR. BLAKE  said, he thought that in the case of the Governors of these small islands the office should be held for a longer period than five years.
 MR. BLAKE  said, he believed great injustice had been done in the case of some of these Indians by the Canada Government. It would be remembered that some time since an Indian chief had been introduced by the Duke of Newcastle to Her Majesty, who, after hearing his statement of grievances, promised that when the Duke went to British North America with the Prince of Wales inquiries should be made into the facts of the case. He wished to know whether the Duke had made the promised inquiries, and whether any redress had been obtained for the Indians.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member can only explain an observation of his own which has been misunderstood. He cannot reply to the remarks of any one else.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, be wished to ask who Governor Dallas was. Was he in any degree under British authority, and was it the British flag that was flying over the Hudson's Bay port? Was the territory British territory? If not, what territory was it?
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he wished, to call the attention of the Government to the permission granted by Governor Dallas to Major Hatch, commanding the United States' troops, to cross the frontier and attack the unfortunate Indians, who were gallantly defending themselves against the United States' troops, and who, had taken refuge in British territory. The permission, he maintained, was opposed to international law. He had formerly referred to the subject, and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would be able to explain more fully under what circumstances the permission had been given.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he observed that one of the items in the Vote was £450 for" residing magistrate of Anguilla." That colony was an island sixteen miles in length and one and a half in breadth. It had scarcely any trade, although it was formerly of more importance, as it was the spot from which Sea Island cotton was originally brought, though it no longer flourished there. The population consisted of 100 whites and 2,400 blacks, and there was a local body which levied taxes and seemed to regulate the charges which the House was called upon to pay. The revenue of the island, according to the last Return, was £414. He did not propose to touch the sum heretofore allowed for the official staff there, but the £450 was an increase of the amount usually voted for Anguilla, and the Committee would bear in mind that it was an increase which exceeded the whole revenue of the colony. He, therefore, moved the reduction of the Vote by a sum of £450.
 MR. HENNESSY  observed, that the official Report of the Governor stated that the people generally were indolent, and that that indolence arose partly from their having no incentive to continuous labour, and having been fostered by grants of public money from the Treasury. To give these people an incentive to industry he should press his Motion to a division.
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, he had been at Rome, and he did not see any advantage to be obtained by our having a consul there. There was a British vice consul at Civita Vecchia, who was paid £250 a year. Be thought that the latter official might appoint an agent at Rome at a salary of £100 a year, which would be paid by English travellers, and that arrangement would meet all the wants to be satisfied by such an officer.
 MR. J. R. ORMSBY GORE  said, he wished to repeat the question which had been put, but to which no answer had been given—what was the salary received by Mr. Odo Russell?
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  said, that after the intimation of the noble Lord he would not press the Motion.
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  said, he rose to move for a Select Committee to inquire, Whether it was possible, by sanitary or other measures, to mitigate some of the evils to which soldiers and sailors quartered in permanent camps, or in garrison or seaport towns, were peculiarly exposed?
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  said, he approved the course taken by the right hon. Gentleman. As it indicated a reversal of the policy pursued for the last few years, it was evident the Department was beginning to draw in its horns. After the statement of the; right hon. Gentleman however he should not press his Motion.
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  said he had read the papers referred to, and had been struck by the same circumstance which the right hon. Gentleman had noticed. It seemed suspicious on the face of it that if there were good reasons for embarking in that war, and for jeopardizing our forces in the same foolish way that we had done in New Zealand, they should not be stated. Let the House be informed what they were, and then they would see whether they could feel confidence in the conduct of affairs by her Majesty Government. The House at present is very little of the matter, and with the object of enabling them to gain the requisite information he would move that the chairman report Progress.
 MR. DILLWYN  remarked, that it would be dangerous for the Government to give paternal advice to our emigrants.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he wished to ask on what principle the Government proceeded in making those appointments. What was the minimum number of inhabitants for which a resident magistrate was deemed necessary?
 MR. CORBALLY  said, he must disclaim the desire to make any charge against the consul or other British officials at Rome; he only complained of the system under which such heavy fees were charged for the inspection of passports.
 MR. CORBALLY  said, he wished to call attention to the inconvenience sustained at Rome by British subjects, who were compelled to get their passports  viséd
 MR. BASS  said, he entirely concurred with the noble Lord. The travelling expenses allowed to these gentlemen were much too small.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : I own the hon. Gentleman had a pretty loud voice, but I did not hear him make that remark. With respect to Mr. Good, I can say that: a better man, a more excellent public servant, or a more intense Conservative does not exist. He is a resident in Bucks, and one of the firmest supporters of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. [A VOICE; Ex!] I beg pardon, the ex-Chancellor, but he may be back again before long. When the hon. Member for Devonport brings forward such charges as he has done, he ought to be more careful as to his facts. Yet when a Member in his position makes such a speech as the hon. Member for Devonport has just made, I cannot resist the conclusion that his application for a Committee of Inquiry ought to be granted in order to clear the character of the gentlemen whose characters have been so seriously attacked, and to place them in a proper position before the country. I shall, therefore, support the Motion.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Sir however much I may regret the highly Coloured if not exaggerated statement made by the hon. Gentleman the Member or Devonport, in bringing this Motion before the House, still I cannot help regretting the manner in which it has been met by Her Majesty's Government. When a Member of parliament, on his own responsibility, comes down to this House with an imposing array of papers and a collection of oranges, and makes a speech of one hour and a half long, containing the gravest charges it is possible to make against gentlemen in a public office, I do not think it is becoming in the Government to resist the Committee so moved for. If the charges brought forward are found not to be founded on fact, they will rebound on the two. Member [Mr. FERRAND: Hear, hear!] and he will never to able—I will net say to show his face, for he is a man of great bravery — but, such charges not having been fully proved, again to bring forward a charge in this House. [Mr. FERRAND: Hear hear!] The hon. and learned Gentleman who has just resumed his seat has fallen into a mistake, as I do not understand that his hon. Friend the Member for Devonport (whom he is not on this occasion about to favour with his vote) made any attack on the three Commissioners. No, he did not fly at such high game, as, of course, there will always be found men in this House to defend those in high position. I rise, therefore, to defend men in a much more humble position,
 1874 s d 1875 s 1876
 MR. MALINS : No! Common Pleas.
 MR. MALINS  said, if there was the slightest ground for supposing that the Commissioners had not faithfully discharged their duty, he should have voted for the inquiry. But when he found the hon. Member easting imputations upon so many highly respectable and honourable gentlemen, and against a Commission that was working admirably, he could not avoid raising his voice in condemnation of such a course, and declaring that be would be no party to the appointment of any such Committee as he had asked for. Although the hon. Member far Devonport sat upon his (Mr. Malins's) side of the House, he must say that he had listened with much pain and regret to his speech. He should have wished that he had brought forward his Motion with greater moderation of language and with greater delicacy for the feelings of others. He (Mr. Malins) could not on this occasion, nor would he on any other, be a party to attacks of such a personal nature. He regretted that he could not concur with many of those hon. Members around him in voting for this Committee of Inquiry.
 MR. LOWE : Sir, I have been an unpaid Charity Commissioner for five years, and I cannot, therefore, allow the debate to close without bearing my most earnest testimony in favour of the gentlemen who conduct the office, and those who work under them, and the manner in which they perform the heavy duties intrusted to them. As I have said before, I believe that more industrious, able, and useful public servants there are not than those in this office. I have been called on to explain several things by the hon. Member for Devonport, but I do not think it is necessary for me to do so. Indeed, had I not felt it my duty to bear public testimony to the character of the gentlemen in this Department, I should not have risen at all. What I may have said in conversation with the hon. Member for Leeds some years ago I do not know, but if the hon. Gentleman repeated, as he may have done, what I said, he did not do so, I am sure, with the intention that it should be published in this House. As to the case of Giggleswick School, which has been mentioned, the facts are very simple. There was an old quarrel
 1878 1879 1880
 MR. TORRENS  said, he saw no necessity for an arbitrator at the Cape of Good Hope. Not a single case had yet been tried in the Mixed Commission Court at New York. Again, at Havannah, there were only two cases of slavers captured, though 8,000 slaves had been landed in the island. It was very gratifying to hear of the great exertions which were being made by the Captain General of Cuba to put down the slave trade, but be hoped that the Government would take into consideration the circumstance that the Mixed Commission Courts had proved quite a failure, and he thought the expenditure upon them might be considerably diminished. It might not be possible for our Government at once to put an end to them without previous negotiations with Foreign Powers, but many of the appointments were unnecessary and ought to be done away with.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he wished to know whether the Englishmen stationed there were to come home?
 MR. WALPOLE  asked, what was the present state of affairs in the Zambesi district, and whether the expedition was to be continued on the existing footing, or were the Englishmen who had been sent there to remain?
 MR. WALPOLE  remarked, that the explanation only referred to one item of the account. There was an item of £32,000 for discount on bills. How did that occur?
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that he noticed in the papers which had been produced by the Colonial Office, that the despatches of the right hon. Gentleman's excellent predecessor, the Duke of Newcastle, referred
 1889
 MR. MILNER GIBSON , in reply, said, there was no intention of blasting Daunt's Rock, or of placing a Light Ship there, but sanction had been given for placing a large bell buoy for warning vessels in foggy weather, and sanction had also been given for improving the Light at Roche's Point, but no further steps had been taken.
 MR. HORSFALL  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether any steps are being taken for blasting Daunt's Rock, or for placing a Light Vessel with Fog Signals, to prevent a recurrence of accidents?
 MR. HORSFALL  said, he begged to dissent from the observation that the mercantile community were in favour of the Vote, for mercantile men were afraid that the expedition would not be attended with any practical result.
 MR. O'HAGAN (THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND)  said, there was no difficulty either in Law or in fact with regard to the appeals under the Fisheries
 1838
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, that the consulate only cost this country about £210 a year, the remainder being met by the fees received from British residents in Rome, and tourists for services rendered to them. It would be most unwise to deprive our countrymen of the advantage of having a Consul at Rome. Whatever the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs might have said about political duties, he apprehended that the hon. Gentleman's remark was more said by way of joke than anything else.
 MR. MORRISON  said, that as the Giggleswick School had been referred to by the hon. Gentleman, it was only an act of justice to the Commissioners to state that, having had every opportunity of witnessing their action as regarded that school, he thought they were entirely free from blame. For three years past they had taken the greatest pains, and had sent down scheme after scheme which had fallen to the ground—as such plans frequently of those who lived in the immediate neighbourhood of the school. If the hon. Gentleman's Motion had been for an inquiry into the
 1865
 MR. FERRAND : I made no charge against the hon. Member.
 MR. FERRAND : I said he had retired.
 MR. FERRAND  said, he wished to explain. When he quoted the £78,000 referred to by the right hon. Member for Calne, the figures from a Return made by Mr. Apsley Pellatt in that House. The right hon. Gentleman had alluded to an action brought against him with reference to what had occurred while Mr. Martin was at Bingley. ["Order!]
 MR. FERRAND : I pray the House to allow me to make an explanation in respect to some statements which the hon. Gentleman has made. ["Order!"]
 MR. FERRAND : I wish to explain. ["Order!"] I may, perhaps, be allowed to make a statement. 'The hon. Member for Liskeard has said—
 MR. FERRAND : My remarks had reference to the charity before my hon. Friend was a trustee.
 MR. FERRAND  said, he rose to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the construction, the expense, and the working of the Board of Charity Commissioners. He hoped he should be able to make out such a case as would induce a large majority to support him on a division should the Government oppose his Motion. And he was the more encouraged to propose his Motion from the fact, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had repeatedly during the present Session called on hen. Members on both sides of the House to assist him in reducing the expenditure of the country, without which it was impossible to keep it within proper limits. Not long since the Chancellor of the Exchequer attacked several hon. Members on the Opposition side of the House for having shown, as he stated, a disposition to increase the expenditure of the country without just
 1842 1843 1844 1845 1846 "That it would be better that the question of general expenditure and administration of charities should be altogether separated from any political question and from the interest of any party." Laughter 1847 1848 "It having been found that the present number of the Inspectors Was too limited, it was proposed to take powers in the present Bill to add to them." "Could not help thinking that an attempt was being made to smuggle the measure through the House." 1849 "He hoped the House would not extend the powers of the Commissioners except upon a well matured plan which had been considered by a Select Committee." "Protested against the unconstitutional powers. The same Law Officers had in the space of two years brought forward entirely distinct and different measures. It would be best to improve the present system and let it work in public, which was the only security. There were three committees sitting in St. James's Square. There might be (he proceeded) three angels sitting in Lincoln's Inn Fields, but if they sat in private the public would not be satisfied. A great many of the charity trustees had bees accused of applying the funds to political purposes, and things done in secret conclave would assuredly be suspected. In the present form the measure Would tend to swallow up charities." 1850 1851 The Times Cries of 1852 A laugh 1853 General s 1854 1855 1856 "The investigation of charities has been actively proceeded with by the Inspectors under our direction in those places where such an investigation has appeared to be most requisite." "They have been actively engaged under our direction in investigating the circumstances of various foundations, particularly several important charities in and near the metropolis." 1857 s d s d s s d * d s s d s s d s d s d s d s d s s d s d s d s d 1858 1859 Leeds Intelligencer, the Lancaster Guardian Lancaster Gazette Manchester Guardian Bradford Observer 1860 1861 "Sir,—Having seen that you are about to bring forward a Motion upon the subject of the Charity Commission, and supposing that you might not object to have facts with regard to it brought under your notice, I take the liberty of writing to acquaint you with the operations of the Charity Commission in respect to the municipal charities of this town. Several years ago returns were made to the Commissioners of the incomes and working of the several charities. Although there was no fault to be found with the application of the funds, which, in most cases, was made as nearly conformable as possible with the wills of the founders, a new scheme was to be put forth, and new trustees appointed. This scheme has been, to my knowledge, upwards of five years in preparation. I was, in the early stage of it, directed by the Commissioners to apply for information upon it to Messrs. Fearon and Clabon, solicitors to the Attorney General, and in their hands I found the matter remained for the best part of the period I have named. On one occasion Mr. Clabon visited Huntingdon with a view of finding out the wishes of the chief inhabitants with regard to their charities, and after one rather hurried meeting be embodied most of the suggestions then made in the scheme, which, after further and needless delay, was printed and came into operation for the first time at Easter, 1863. The results of this 'investigation' are that we have a body of sixteen trustees to manage charities which could much more effectively be administered by six. We hare a scheme differing from the former mode of management in very few particulars, and those only such as we suggested ourselves, and now are not able to alter if it should from time to time need improvement. And out of charities which yield an annual income of £471 11 s d s d s d s d "I have the honour to be, Sir, "Tour obedient Servant, "F. GIRALD VESEY, M.A., "Rector of All Saints and St. John's, "Huntingdon." 1862 1863 1864
 MR. MONSELL  said, the observations of the bon. Under Secretary might be
 1894
 MR. MONSELL  said, it appeared to him it was unnecessary to discuss Mr. Odo Russell's position. He certainly was in the position that he was not recognized by the Romish Government, and could not discharge the duties of a British Consul. He could not but believe that it would be a great advantage if they had a recognized Minister at Rome, and an acknowledged representative of the Romish Court in this
 1908
 MR. MONSELL  said, there was a distinct understanding that no Vote should be taken after eleven o'clock.
 MR. MUNDY  said, he would beg to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education, What Clause in the Revised Code prevents a Certificated Elementary Teacher having a Pupil Teacher, and holding a Science Certificate, from receiving payment for the results of his Science Teaching?
 MR. ALDERMAN ROSE  said, that the Lancashire City Relief Fund had set apart a portion of its funds for the purpose of assisting emigration, but they had met with so little success that the sum thus set aside had been re-transferred to the main fund. The difficulties interposed were the more extraordinary, as he had been assured the other day by a member of the Legislature of Sydney, that the Australian Colonies could receive any amount of emigration. There appeared to be something defective in the emigration machinery under such circumstances.
 MR. ALDERMAN ROSE  said, he wished to know the number of emigrants sent out by this costly machinery?
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to know why there were six officers at
 1893
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that it was a misnomer to speak of that as a war expenditure. Although many men had been lost by the climate, he believed that not a shot had been fired.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  complained of the staff of six clerks as altogether too large. One had been added since the previous year.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to know what were the duties of the Chief Justice of St. Kitt's with regard to Anguilla.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he should support the reduction.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  observed, that the Consular Staff at Venice, Warsaw, and Morocco, among other places, was unnecessarily large.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, that reverting to the question of the Irish Fisheries Commission, he wished to ask whether the salary of the legal member was to be increased?
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  complained that the salary of the Governor of Western Australia was paid out of the Imperial Treasury, while all the other Australian Colonies paid their own Governors.
 MR. WATKIN , said that the Indians who were at war with the United States considered themselves under the dominion of the British Crown. He believed the facts of the case were these. The chief
 1883 prestige of
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, that he, with the hon. Member for Peterborough, had previously made one or two attempts ineffectually to catch the Speaker's eye. Objecting very strongly to the Election Petitions Bill, which was the next order on the paper, he begged to move the adjournment of the House.
 MR. F. S. POWELL  observed, that all classes in this country, especially in religious and scientific circles, took a great interest in the expedition, and he thought it was the duty of Her Majesty's Government to give more information than was contained in the jaunty explanation they had just heard.
 MR. F. S. POWELL  said, that Mr. Martin came down from London after he was a trustee, and he was a party to the proceedings. In one particular case, the charge against the trustees was that they had sold, or were prepared to sell, a plot of land below its value. As a trustee he felt bound with a great responsibility, and he had brought over from Bradford, at his own expense, two surveyors, unconnected both with the trustees and the purchaser, and they both declared that the sole was an advantageous one for the trust. If the arrangements made for selling that property were thoroughly investigated, it would be found that a wise discretion had been exercised, and that the charity would be largely benefited by it. He hoped that the Government would grant the inquiry. If he were one of the Commissioners against whom such Charges were made, he should be anxious for a full and complete inquiry, so as to give the hon. Member an opportunity of proving his allegations, and the Commissioners an opportunity of answering and rebutting the accusations made
 1866
 MR. F. S. POWELL : The hon. Member says he Aid not bring the charge, and if the charge be withdrawn a reply to it is unnecessary.
 MR. F. S. POWELL  said that, as a Member of the Bingley Trust, he rose for himself and colleagues to enter a strong and emphatic protest against the charge made by his hon. Friend, that they had been guilty, as trustees, of jobbing away the property intrusted to them.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, the noble Viscount at the head of the Government was technically correct in saying that the British Consul at Rome was necessary because we had no diplomatic relations with that Court, but substantially he was in error. Mr. Odo Russell lived at Borne, had audiences with the Pope, and was in communication with Cardinal Antonelli and other authorities. If a Consul was necessary for the protection of British subjects, of what use was Mr. Odo Russell? Was that gentleman retained at Rome to make political capital—to write despatches of which the Government at home could make political capital in that or the other House of Parliament? Either Mr. Odo Russell or a Consul was unnecessary at Rome.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, the burst of red-tape indignation to which the House had listened was really enough to take away one's breath, and illustrated the saying that there was only a step from the sublime to the ridiculous. As to the Consul at Rome, what use was he? He was not there for the purpose of trade, because we had no trade with Rome, and Rome was not a manufacturing or commercial city. The fact was, that the duty of the British Consul at Rome was to foment discontent among the few persons who were still discontented with the Romish Government. He said this advisedly, because the people of Rome began to find that they were paying rather less than one-tenth of the taxes paid by the population around them, while those who had placed themselves under the King of Sardinia bitterly regretted what they had done. The Consul at Rome was perfectly unnecessary; the sooner he was suppressed the better; and the British political agent there might go along with him. He compelled travellers to come to him to have their passports  viséd,
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that no increase was proposed in the Vote, and none could be made without the sanction of that House.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied that, on looking through these regulations, which were numerous, a doubt arose whether some of them were not beyond the powers conferred by the Act of Parliament, and they were, therefore, referred to the Law Officers of the Crown for their opinion. They gave their opinion that several of the regulations were beyond the powers of the Act. He (Sir George Grey) thereupon returned the regulations to the authorities of the City, with a Copy of the Opinions of the Law Officers, that they might see to which of the regulations the objection applied. That was done on the 25th of April, 1864, and he had not received any further communication from the City authorities on the subject.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he hoped some assurance would he given to the Committee, that if a State Emigration Department were maintained, no vessels except those which were seaworthy would he allowed in future to leave with emigrants.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  remarked that the Vote ought to be postponed until the whole of our relations with the Coast of Africa ought to be discussed and revised, and that the time had come when we ought to select the points necessary for controlling the trade and advancing the civilization of the country, with a view to concentrating our establishments and reducing expenditure as much, as possible.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, the name of the transport, or the class to which she belonged; has not been stated.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  asked
 1841 Gladiator
 SIR JOHN HAY : I have also a Ques-
 1840
 SIR JOHN HAY  The numbers?
 SIR JOHN HAY : It will be in the recollection of the House that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary far the Colonies in reply to a Question from the right hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich (Sir John Pakington), in May. promised that the Ashantee war should be put a stop to and a transport sent to fetch a way the troops. I wish to ask the noble Lord, Whether, in accordance with the promise given before Whitsuntide, any transports have been cent to convey troops from the Gold Coast, what number of men are to be conveyed and when the ship sailed?
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he hoped the Secretary of State would also lay on the table the despatch issued by the right hon. Gentleman who conducted the affairs of the colonial Office during the lamented illness of Duke of Newcastle, and the despatch containing a remonstrance from commander Wilmot.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he found that the sum of £2,000 was set down in the Vote for the expenses of the Ashantee war. He believed that war had cost more than £200,000, and he had also to observe that when the hon. and gallant Member for Portarlington had moved for a statement of the cost of the war, the return made by the Colonial Office was that they had not yet received any information upon the subject. Under those circumstances he wished to know why only the charge of £2,000 appeared in the Vote, when it was notorious that £200,000 was nearer the mark.
 MR. HIBBERT  said, there were at that moment agents engaged in the country in tempting the Lancashire operatives to emigrate to work in mills in America. That was done openly, and though he regretted that these people should go, it would be unfair to them if the Government were to interfere.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  I wish to ask when the order was given for the  Gladiator to
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he must admit that the salary of the legal Commissioner was not so high as to be likely to induce a man in first-rate practice to accept the appointment. The reason of Mr. Morris's resignation was that there was an unsatisfactory feeling between him and the other two Commissioners, and he (Sir Robert Peel) put it to him that under those circumstances the commission could not work satisfactorily.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he did not think that a matter of that kind ought to be allowed to pass with a joke from the Treasury Bench, but that sufficient reason ought to be shown for the maintenance of a Consul at Rome.
 MR. CAVE  said, that as allusion had been made to coolie emigration, it was but just that he should bear testimony to the efficiency of the Commissioners. Nothing could be more stringent than the rules laid down and enforced by the Board in Park Lane. The people of the West Indies, indeed, complained that the regulations were much too strict. He did not concur in this, and, as far as his experience went, no Department of the Government was more efficiently conducted than the Emigration Board.
 MR. CAVE  observed, that there were two Consuls and one Vice Consul in Cuba charged in the Estimates, but besides these there were several consular agents. He inquired by whom they were appointed? He asked the question because he had heard, but he could not vouch for the fact, that the authorities there, both Spanish and English, were hampered in putting down the slave trade in consequence of want of information from remote parts of the island, a circumstance easily accounted for, if it were true as reported, that some of the consular agents were slave owners. He hoped that special care was taken to appoint proper persons for consular agents in Cuba.
 MR. CAVE  said, he thought that no answer.
 MR. CAVE  observed, that there was now a Mixed Commission Court at New York under the new treaty, but it was hardly likely that any slaver would be taken in there. In other Mixed Commission
 1899
 MR. CAVE  asked for an explanation of how it was that demurrage for so long a period as 230 days had been incurred.
 MR. CAVE  called attention to a great piece of extravagance—namely, the payment of £5,500 expenses and compensation in the case of the  Bushair, Sidon, 1898 Iola Castilia, Laura,
 MR. CAVE  said, he did not agree with
 1886
 MR. CAVE  said, he did not think that the proposition of depriving the island of a stipendiary magistrate would have the effect of inducing the people to work. The cause which had interfered with the prosperity of the West India Islands was
 1888
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  said, there was one point on which he wished for information before he determined on which side he should vote. On this point he was already determined—that the Board of Commissioners ways at any rate preferable to the Court of Chancery. Anything worse than the Court of Chancery, as superintendent of charities, was impossible. He wished to know whether, if the inquiry were granted, the question of costs would be considered, as, if so, he certainly should vote for it? He did not wish to say one word against the Charity Commissioners, but he must say that the bills of the solicitors in some cases were exorbitant, and required revision.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I think my hon. Friend the Under Secretary has given very good reason for the appointment of a Consul at Rome. As to the Government being accused of passing this matter off with a joke, I think that the House has been in a greater humour for merriment than the Members sitting on the Treasury Bench. The hon. Baronet the Member for Dundalk has favoured us with his reading of the duty of a Consul. It would be hard on the Consul to apply to him practically the line,  Solventur risu tabulœ tu missus abibis,
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  observed, that at one time the salaries of Consuls were entirely defrayed out of fees levied on shipping. These fees were abolished, and only notarine fees left, the distribution was very unequal, the amount in some cases being too large, and in other cases insufficient. The Committee which sat on the subject recommended, in order to equalize the payments, that the fees be paid to the public, and Consuls be paid by fixed salaries. If fees should be abolished altogether, the public would lose the benefit of the amount. He did not see why individuals who had offices performed for them should not make some small payment for the services which they received.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he really hoped that as they had discussed the Vote for two hours, the Committee would come to a decision upon it. It was not proposed that they should, after that one, take any more Votes that night.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : With regard to Mr. Odo Russell, by law as it formerly stood we were precluded from having any diplomatic relations with the Court of Rome. Some years ago the House thought it desirable that the Crownshould have diplomatic relations with the Court of Rome, and an Act of Parliament was passed authorizing the Crown to have those diplomatic relations. In the course of that Bill through Parliament a clause was introduced providing that no ecclesiastic should be received in this country as a diplomatic representative of the Pope. The Court of Rome took offence at that clause, and said that if they were not allowed to be represented here by an ecclesiastic, they would not be represented at all. We were obliged to submit to that decision, and, therefore, as they would not be represented here, so they said also they would not receive at Rome any accredited Minister from the Crown of England. Well, it appeared to the Government that it was almost childish that diplomatic intercourse with the Sovereign of Rome should be prevented by that question of etiquette, and accordingly the Secretary of Legation at Florence was stationed at Rome, with the consent of the Roman Government, to be the official organ of the Government with the Court of Rome; but of late years Mr. Odo Russell has been acting in that capacity. He is, unofficially I may say, the diplomatic agent of the Crown of England at Rome.
 1910
 MR. H. A BRUCE  said, the provisions of the Factory Acts were perfectly familiar having been administered for many years, and he was satisfied that no practical difficulty would arise from the application of them. He might add that they had received an assurance from the Inspector of the district that he would be able with his sub-Inspectors to carry the measure into effect, but the number of Inspectors would be increased if necessary.
 1941
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, he wished to move the omission of the clause which included in the operation of the Act persons engaged in the employment of finishing, hooking, lapping, making up, or packing. The Government had been guided in framing the clauses by the state of the trade at Manchester. Information, however, from other places had been received, stating that hours were not excessive, and that no women and children, to whom the clauses of the Act could be applied, were employed in any injurious portion of the businesses. The government ought not to interfere in such cases unless there was ample cause for such interference, and even in Manchester there appeared to be no pressing call for interference. The state of all those trades, however, should be fully examined into, and all he asked of the Committee was not to force the Government against their sense of justice to legislate without further inquiry.
 SIR JOHN HAY* : Sir, the subject which I am about to introduce to the notice of the House is one which I believe to be of considerable importance to the national honour, and I trust the House will favour me with their kind indulgence should I be obliged to trespass on their attention for some considerable time. I fear that I may have to do so, for I shall hardly be able to state the subject clearly without going into many details. It is now nearly two months ago since I took occasion to address a question to the Colonial Secretary upon the subject of the war with Ashantee, and I do not believe that at the time I did so there were ten Members in the House out of the Cabinet who were aware that war had been commenced with that country. The reason why I have taken upon myself the duty of calling1 attention to this painful subject is, that I have myself served upon that station, and I am personally cognizant of the country to which I am about to refer; and, unfortunately, a near relative of mine has served on this expedition, and in it has lost his life, with many another brave soldier whose loss we must all deplore. And here I may be pardoned for saying that my unfortunate relative was able, discreet, and resolute, as the reports of his superiors testify, and that in him Her Majesty has lost a good and faithful servant. 1951 1952 "Sir,—Upon your Report, at the request of Afarka and Bosoomfra, and mainly at your suggestion, I have embodied a corps of Volunteers, who have become, virtually soldiers, and which you have volunteered to command, under the sanction of Colonel Conran. The objects I have in view in this undertaking are so well known to you that I shall encumber you with few instructions. The chiefs to whose support you proceed, against a threatened attack of King Amantifou, I consider deserve the countenance, and, if necessary, the armed assistance; of this Government; at the: same time, I cannot impress upon your mind my extreme anxiety, and the almost necessity which exists for hostilities not being adopted on our part if they can be avoided. Your duty will be rather to conciliate the dissenting party, and I doubt not that your appearance with your little force will have the effect of preventing bloodshed, so soon as it is known that Afarka and Bosoomfra are under British protection; but you will be justified in using your force in resisting an attack upon the chiefs, if the sole cause of quarrel be their resistance of the passage of munitions of war and stores to the Ashantee country. It is possible that the French authorities, as you are aware, will indirectly attempt to uphold the tribes unfriendly to us, but I most urgently call upon you to avoid collision with the French authorities, or a breach of international law. In case of danger of such collision being imminent, you will, if possible, make amicable arrangements, or refer the question to this Government; but I do not fear direct interference so much as clandestine influence, against which1 you will be prepared. You will be good enough to present the accompanying letter to the Governor of Elmina, and obtain his permission before marching through his territory; and such march, I trust, will be effected throughout in the least ostentatious manner, defiance not being the object of your mission, but an effort to preserve peace. In full reliance on your discretion, "I have the honour to be. Sir, "Your most obedient servant, "RICE. PINE, Governor." 1953 vice versa 1954 1955 Magæa 1956 Megæra 1957 "Sir,—Under existing circumstances you will, on receipt of this letter, march from where you now are to Akropong, in Denker, with your detachment of volunteers, and there remain in the defence of the King and his people, as allies of Her Majesty's Government against the Ashantees. The king, who is here and knows me, will house your men. I will in a few days forward a medical officer to your assistance from the I'rah, by a road leading thence. The king's son, Quacoe Mame, is my A.D.C., and upon whom you may depend for truthful information. Your letter the Governor and myself received this morning from Gorgie. "I have the honour to be, Sir, "Your most obedient servant, "E. CONRAN, "Lieutenant Colonel commanding Troops." "Sir,—I have the honour to report, for the information of the officer commanding, the 4th West India Regiment on the 11th of this month with everything correct. The march throughout was good, considering the nature of the country. One day we crossed forty-nine rivers, some by fording and others by large trees, so that long marches cannot be made in a day of even ten hours' march. I had to make two halts on the road, one of one day to rest the men, and another of three days to take medicine for the country fever, of which the men had an attack, but are now nearly all right, except from the weakness incidental to a sharp attack of that sickness." Excellent 1958 hors de combat Tamar Tamar Tamar Tamar 1959 Tamar Tamar Tamar Gladiator 1960 Gladiator Gladiator Gladiator Gladiator 1961 Gladiator Gladiator Gladiator Grey-hound Gladiator Indus Gladiator Indus Gladiator Indus Gladiator Indus's Gladiator's Gladiator 1962 1963
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he was quite sure they all sympathized very deeply with the hon. and gallant Gentleman who had just addressed the House, for the very painful loss which he had sustained—the loss of a distinguished and gallant brother upon the inhospitable shores of Africa. He trusted, however, that, much as the House might sympathize with the hon. and gallant Member, no feeling of that kind would induce them to assent to the Resolution which had just been moved without more careful inquiry into the facts and better evidence for his assertions than the hon. and gallant Gentleman had afforded. He did not propose to follow the hon. and gallant Member through the whole of his speech, or to answer all the allegations which had been made against Her Majesty's Government; but as the weight of the indictment and the greatest number of charges had been brought against the Department which he had the honour to represent in that House, he hoped the House would bear with him while he explained as well and as shortly as he could the arrangements which had been made by that Department, the loss which the country had actually sustained, and the real facts of the case with respect to the operations under notice. The hon. and gallant Member had stated that a considerable number of troops had from time to time been landed on the Gold by order of the Government, with the object of prosecuting hostilities against the King of Ashantee. He must distinctly state that the only troops which had been sent by
 1964 Tamar Megæra 1965 Tamar Tamar Tamar Tamar Tamar Tamar 1966 Tamar Tamar 1967 Tamar Tamar 1968 Megæra "The rations for the troops in the field will be as follows: —1 lb. salt meat or 1 lb. fresh meat, or ¾ lb. preserved boiled beef without bone. Fresh meat or preserved meat to be issued every other day. The issued of biscuit, flour, and rice to be varied as often as circumstances will permit." 1969 1970 1971 1972 1973 1974 1975
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  moved that the Committee report Progress, stating that he should bring up the Bill again on Monday week.
 LORD STANLEY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether he has issued, or is about to issue, any fresh Instructions to the Government of India relative to the restoration to the Rajah of Dhar of the Government of that State; and, if so, whether he will lay them upon the Table?
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, he entirely disagreed with the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, that the opposition to improve the condition of the children of the working classes arose, in this instance, from the masters and employers. His experience, on the contrary, had proved to him that he masters themselves were most anxious of having legislation of this kind, because they had no other means of securing the health of their work-people. He believed, from what he had heard during the discussion, that the majority of the Committee was in favour of the retention of the clause, and he could not see that any ob-
 1948
 GENERAL PEEL : I will not detain the House more than, a very few minutes. My object in rising is to endeavour to ascertain—information which I have in vain endeavoured to extract from the papers before us or from the speeches which have been made to-night—on whom the responsibility of these transactions rests. Is it to be the old story over again? Are these things to happen and nobody be responsible? I have heard the statement of the noble Lord the Under Secretary for War, and I am sorry to say that it by no means removed from my mind the impression made by the papers and the statements of the hon. and gallant Member, that there has been the greatest neglect somewhere, and that we have had in a minor degree a repetition of the blunders that took place in the Crimean war. Perhaps no Member of the House has spent so much time as I have in inquiring into that matter. I served as a Member of the Committee over which the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield so ably presided in connection with the Crimean war, and I was a member of that board of officers which afterwards sat at Chelsea, and heard everything so minutely described, that I think I could find my way almost blindfold about Balaklava but the evidence in this instance is, in my opinion, quite as strong. On the face of the papers the management of this business has been quite disgraceful; for they show that the Government have learned nothing and forgotten nothing. What I want to know is, where the responsibility of the Colonial Office ends, and where that of the War Department begins? As to the policy of the war itself, that rests with the Government. I do not believe that the Secretary of State for the Colonies would undertake to involve his country in a contest like this without having previously obtained the sanction of his colleagues. But having obtained their sanction, the next step is to communicate to the Secretary of War that such a war was to be undertaken; and from that moment I should say that the Secretary of State for War is responsible. I cannot ascertain at what time the Secretary of State for the Colonies communicated that the troops were required. She Secretary of State for War denies that they were sent; for warlike purposes, and yet the Secretary of State for the Colonies draws the attention of the Secre-
 2009 Gladiator 2010
 MR. CORRY  said, it was impossible to have heard the statement of his hon. and gallant Friend without being deeply impressed; more especially when they remembered under what circumstances of domestic bereavement it was made; and if the gallant brother he had lost had the same ability, energy of character, and worth as his hon. and gallant Friend, the country had indeed sustained a severe loss. He (Mr. Corry) did not intend to enter on the general question under discussion, but he wished to make a few remarks in consequence of what fell from the noble Lord the Secretary of the Admiralty, who he did not think had improved the case as it stood against the Government. His speech afforded an admirable illustration of the Circumlocution system. Communications were made by the Admiralty, first to one office, and then to another; and, at last, tenders were called for, but not for steam-transports, because the price was so high per man. The noble Lord talked of the price per man when the troops were dying like flies on that pestilential coast. At last a sailing transport with an unpronounceable name was taken up, and at the end of a month she was not ready for sea. His hon. Friend the Member for Portsmouth told him that when he commanded an East Indiaman he had sailed from the Channel to the equator in sixteen days, and therefore had this vessel been despatched at once she might at that moment hive been embarking our soldiers. He contended that the Admiralty as soon as this cry of distress reached them from the coast of Africa, Ought not to have issued advertisements for sailing vessels, but they ought to have communicated with the directors of the great steam companies, and, no matter at what cost per man, have taken up one of the most powerful, capacious, and rapid steam vessels that could be obtained. And supposing that the mercantile marine could not have furnished such a vessel, had they not their steam reserve, including magnifi-
 2013 Trafalgar Gladiator
 LORD NAAS  said, he wished to refer to a matter which occupied considerable attention in Ireland, and which had reference to the office of Public Works in that country. He had been unwilling to call attention to this subject, lest he should shake confidence in the administration of the Board, but a debate had recently taken place on the subject, and the Government had introduced a Bill, altering the constitution of the Board. The late Chairman had retired to a comparatively subordinate position. He therefore thought it was worthy of the consideration of the Government whether the Board should not be placed upon a different footing, and in immediate connection with the Irish Government. Great inconvenience had constantly arisen from the position of the Board. Serious exceptions had been taken to acts committed by the Board, and it had been always a matter of difficulty to find out who was really responsible for those acts. He wished to ask whether in the new arrangement it was intended to place the Board more in connection with the Irish Government? The large expenditure which the Board had been in the habit of making was coming rapidly to an end, and it therefore ceased to be the important department it was heretofore. There was another body in connection with it—namely, the Fishery Commission, which occasioned great inconvenience, inasmuch as the public could not exercise any control over the acts of that Commission. He hoped that the permanent part — the Inspectors and Commissioners—
 2024
 MR. PEEL  said, that with all respect for the opinion of the noble Lord he could not agree with him in thinking that there was any ground for being dissatisfied with the constitution of the Board of Works. The Board had hitherto consisted of three persons, but as long ago as 1854 the Treasury contemplated that the number of Commissioners should be reduced from three to two, and one of the present Commissioners was at first only appointed temporarily. He brought in a Bill to reduce the number, but it occurred to him afterwards that a better present arrangement would be that Sir R. Griffith should accept an honorary Commissionership, and thus the Board still nominally consist of three Commissioners, and he therefore withdrew the Bill. With regard to the relations of the Irish Board of Works with the Treasury, he considered these relations satisfactory, and that the Treasury should communicate with them direct and not through the medium of the Irish Government. With regard to the Fisheries Commission, the failure in the result of its duties should not be ascribed to any unwillingness of its members to execute the law, but to the imperfection of the law which required a private person to take preliminary, proceedings before it could be put in motion. By the act of last Session, however, the new Fisheries Commissioners could themselves, and without the intervention of any private person, initiate proceedings.
 MR. DENMAN (who was received with cries of "Divide")  said, he claimed in justice to be heard, because the right hon. Baronet who addressed the House a few minutes ago pointedly alluded to him. The right hon. Baronet challenged him to make good his words, because he chose to take notice of the dissent which he uttered, perhaps somewhat loudly, but he believed not indecorously. When he expressed his dissent the right hon. Baronet was misrepresenting, of course unintentionally, what had been stated by the noble Lord the Under Secretary for War. The right hon. Baronet represented the noble Lord as saying that the attempt to supply the troops with water had utterly failed. What the noble Lord really did say was, that the moment the Government was aware that there was a lack of water, which they had not had reason to anticipate, they sent out a condensing apparatus, guaranteed to supply 1,200 gallons a day, and which actually supplied 500 gallons per day. The real question was, Whether the Government, when they knew there was a lick of water, did that which became them as prudent men to supply the need? He would not further trouble the House.
 MR. DENMAN : As I am personally alluded to perhaps I may be allowed to explain.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he agreed in the opinion which had been expressed by the hon. Member for Poole, that the question involved in the Motion could not and ought not to be made a party question. It appeared to him that the lives of their soldiers were as dear, to the Gentlemen sitting upon one side of the House as to those who were sitting on the other. And because he believed that the lives of the soldiers had been unnecessarily sacrificed by the neglect of the common precautions which the War Department ought to have taken and the insufficiency, of the arrangements made for their reception, that he, as a Member of that House, intended to give his vote in favour, of the Resolution. When military operations, were undertaken, that House, ought to be satisfied upon two material points. The first was, that there was a necessity for war; and the second, that if military operations were necessary, proper precautions and safeguards had been made for the safety and protection of the, troops which were sent abroad. He-repeated they ought to be satisfied upon both those points. Now, if he wanted information, as to the opinion of the Government on the necessity of the war, he would find its necessity denied in the despatch written by the Colonial Secretary a few days ago. If he wanted an assurance that proper precautions had not been taken for the safety of the troops, he would find it in the speeches of the noble Lord who represented the War Department in that House. The noble Marquess had told them that the War Office could not be expected to know that there was a scarcity of water at Cape Coast Castle. Now, had that been a fortuitous expedition thrown upon an unknown coast, such an observation might be taken as an excuse, though a bad one. But that was not the case, inasmuch as the country in question was a permanent station which for many years had been in the possession of the British Crown. And yet the noble Lord said that the War Office, could not be expected to, know that there was a want of water in the place. The noble Lord, to his (Mr. Liddell's) amazement, told the House that it was impossible to provide barracks for the troops sent there upon the emergency. Well, if it were impossible to provide, barracks for the troops at that station, those troops should, not have been sent to a coast so notorious for its insalubrity. It appeared to him that the noble Lord by those observations had used the
 1989 1990
 LORD ALFRED CHURCHILL  said, he had originally intended to move an Amendment to the Resolution of the hon. Member (Sir John Hay), but he found that he was prevented by the forms of the House from doing so. He would, therefore, briefly state to the House the reasons why he could not approve the Resolution, but he wished first to express his heartfelt sympathy for the bereavement which the hon. Baronet had sustained in the loss of his brother, and also his sympathy with the families of those officers who died in the performance of their duty. He would now endeavour to give a brief summary of what had taken place. The Ashantee King demanded, under an extradition treaty, that a slave who had escaped should be given up to him. The Governor required that evidence should be produced that he had committed the crimes with which he had been charged, and on the King's refusal Governor Pine, in the cause of humanity, declined to accede to the demand. The King of Ashantee threatened to invade British territory, and in the spring of 1863 he invaded the protected territory of the Fantees, a friendly tribe. Major Cochrane was sent with a force of coloured troops, officered by Europeans, to encourage the Fantees in resisting the Ashantees. From some cause or other Major Cochrane failed to Come to his post; the Ashstatees in consequence overran the Fantee territory; massacred from 3,000 to 5,000 Natives, and; then returned to their own territory. To prevent a recurrence of such attacks, Governor Pine submitted to the Duke of Newcastle the necessity of striking a blow. The Duke of Newcastle at first objected to an invasion of Ashantee territory, but in a despatch, dated August 22, 1863, he said —
 "You allude to your former despatch, No. 40, of the 12th of May, in which you submitted a plan
 1985 Tamar 1986 1987 Gladiator Rattlesnake Gladiator
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Before I reply to the grave accusations which have been made against the Admiralty by the hon. and gallant Gentleman and by the right hon. Baronet, I wish to point out two errors—unintentional, I am sure — on the part of my hon. and gallant Friend. First, as to the number of men, my hon. and gallant Friend says that the Return bears upon its face proof of incorrectness, inasmuch as the number, of officers in the first page does not correspond with the number in the second page. But I am informed by my noble Friend the Under Secretary of State for War, who has already spoken and cannot therefore answer by himself, that in the first page only the officers and men landed from the transports were mentioned. That, I am informed, is the cause of the apparent discrepancy; besides which officers have since been changed from other stations. The other misstatement is as to the number of deaths among the officers. My hon. and gallant Friend said that the Return did not include the deaths for the whole year, but I find that the first death mentioned in this Return is that of Ensign Bryan, who died on the 16th of May, 1863, so that it appears that the Return, does include the deaths for the whole year. Now let me state to the House what has been the course of the Admiralty with respect to the removal of these troops. The first intimation which we received of the intended removal of troops was on Saturday, May 21. The War Office stated that all troops in excess of ordinary peace garrisons were to be removed. On Monday, May 23, the Director of Transports asked the Horse Guards for an approximate statement of the numbers to be removed. On the 26th
 2005 Murmurs Waubojeez 2006 Gladiator Gladiator Gladiator Gladiator Gladiator A laugh Gladiator "It was stated that much sickness had prevailed among the troops while away from Cape Coast Castle; but the patients seemed to have generally recovered quickly after their departure from the interior. I have been unable to ascertain that any serious amount of sickness need be apprehended as long as the men are actively employed." 2007 Tamar
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : I am glad to find that I have misunderstood my hon. and gallant Friend, and as to his remarks on the "Admiralty system" he is perfectly aware that officers in command can, and do take upon themselves the responsibilities of giving passages unless orders are given the contrary. I can assure the House that having looked over every despatch, we can find no mention made of anything of the Sort. My hon. and gallant Friend has spoken of Cape Coast Castle as if it were some perfectly isolated part of the world, and seems to forget that a steamer goes backwards and forwards there every month. We have besides our own cruiser there, and are, in fact, in constant communication with the place; so that it is idle to tell me that officer who might be sick have no means of getting away from it. I think when we look into this matter and examine it carefully we shall find that the mortality is much exaggerated, and I may perhaps be allowed to refer to a statement made by the captain of Her Majesty's ship  Ranger 2008
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, there had been nothing in the speech of the noble Marquees with which he was more struck than the allegation that when these troops were sent out to Cape Coast Castle there was no intention of carrying on a war. If no such intention existed, what was the good of sending out such a number of troops, at all? To a right understanding of the question it was necessary to discover by whose authority the war was entered into, and the date of the orders sent from the; Colonial Office empowering Governor Pine to make war in the Ashantee country. The despatches presented to Parliament were very few and among those of Governor Pine laid on the table were frequent references to documents which had not been, produced. The noble Marquees, however, must remember that the state of thing existing when Colonel Conran landed was but a continuance of events which occurred in 1863, when Major Cochrane was in command. [Hear!] The noble Lord the First Minister generally made a
 1981 from the Treasury Bench "Sir, I have received your despatch, No. 33, of the 15th ult., reporting the threatening movements of the Ashantees, and the steps which you have taken to resist an invasion, and I have much pleasure in noticing the calmness and prudence as well as the energy which you have shown in these trying circumstances." "You report the withdraw of the enemy without molestation, after, having inflicted destructive ravages on the territory under British protection. It is much to be feared that this impunity may prove an encouragement to fresh aggressions." "Your own conduct in this trying emergency appears to have been all that could be desired. You betrayed no undue wish to interpose in military matters, but when accounts reached you from all sides of an inactivity which was injurious to the public interest, you hastened to the scene of action, and there endeavoured to produce more resolution, and provided by your own influence some of the material aids from the Natives which had been represented to be wanting, the whole being done at great risk to yourself from the attendant exposure and anxiety. For such efforts, made in such a spirit, it is my pleasing duty to convey to you my cordial approbation." 1982 "I transmit for your information an extract of a letter which by my desire has been addressed to the War Office, explaining the grounds on which I have recommended that your application Should be complied with, and I have to request that you will guide yourself by the principles therein stated. In case the expected Ashantee invasion takes place, my hope is that you and the officer in command will be able to inflict so severe a punishment upon the invaders as will remove the disastrous impressions caused by their impunity when they lately ravaged the protected territory, and will deter them from any future aggression. But should no opportunity be found of striking such a blow without entering the Ashantee territory, you are not to regard yourself as absolutely prohibited from doing so under any circumstances, and from advancing, as far as the utmost, consideration for the safety of the troops would permit, for the purpose of obtaining reparation and securing the peace of the Protectorate." "His Grace feels that he cannot refuse to Governor Pine a conditional authority to strike a blow within the Ashantee territory, if such a blow can be struck Without making any other or further advance than in his own opinion and that of the officer in command may be consistent with the utmost consideration for the safety of the troops, and provided also he can satisfy himself that the result will be to remove the disastrous impressions caused by the impunity of the Ashantees when they last ravaged the protected territory, and to obtain reparation and secure the peace of the Protectorate." 1983 Megæra Tamar 1984
 MR. DISRAELI : The noble Lord omits to state that it was resumed on a Report of the House of Commons recommending its assumption.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I cannot refuse, the challenge of the noble Lord, although, so far as I am concerned, I should be glad if the debate were now to close. I am glad that the noble Lord in the latter part of his speech addressed the House in a tone of gravity which somewhat became the subject. For my part, I prefer the tone of the noble Lord when he gives us the advantage of his long experience, and speaks Without that affectation of unnecessary levity, which he, the leading statesman of the greatest Empire in the world, seems to think is indispensable as a compliment, I suppose, to the House of Commons to introduce into every debate. The noble Lord says it is very easy to make loud and unfounded assertions. I quite agree with the noble Lord. I have listened to him often, and admired
 2020
 MR. DISRAELI : The noble Lord has now made another slip of the tongue. His first statement was, that it was the Government, of the Earl of Derby. He now recalls that statement, although he charged my right hon. friends, and particularly the hon. Member Droitwich, with being the Secretary of State; who carried that policy into execution. But this master of bold and unfounded assertions, when I ventured to correct one misstatement, takes up another, position. He now says it was not the Government, of the Earl of Derby, but another Government in which the Earl of Derby was Secretary of State for the Colonies—I presume he means the Government of Sir Robert Peel in 1841. But, unless, I am entirely misinformed—unless what I have read on the subject entirely deceives me, the, protectorate, of the Fantee tribes and of all those tribes which have engaged our attention to-night, leading to the permanence of our occupation of Cape Coast Castle, was established in. the year 1826, at the conclusion of the war in that country. Therefore, I say, when a person, and a person of the great eminence and position of the noble Lord, after a debate of much interest on a subject unquestionably of very great national importance, rises in his place and scolds and flounces about the evening having been taken up with bold and unfounded assertions which are easy to make, and, when refuted, to
 2021 2022
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he thought that nothing was less, applicable to the question before the Committee than the remarks of the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck), because the question embraced no contest between humanity and selfishness, The only content was between the earnest purpose of the Minister to extend the benefits of legislation, to overworked women and children, and his enlightened caution which urged him not to overstep the proper boundary. The Committee should remember that, but for the right hon. Gentleman, they would have had no Bill at all.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he regarded the mode of specifying those provisions of the Factory Acts to which the Bill was to extend as not only unadvisable but dangerous. The House should avoid the danger of cobweb legislation as far as possible. The plan was mischievous, as the House itself could not be fully aware of the extent of its legislation.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he should support, the Bill in its original form. He believed that legislation like that before them had done more to draw classes together, and to produce that admirable state of feeling which had been exhibited during the recent Lancashire distress, than anything else in the, world. He felt certain, that if the Ten Hours Act had not accompanied the introduction of free trade, the latter measure would have been a failure. The Manchester houses were willing to accept the unmutilated Bill, and it was only a few houses in Bradford that selfishly resisted. The, pressure which required these unnatural hours of labour only existed for a few months in the year, and might easily be met, either by employing more hands, or by refusing orders above what could be easily executed. He trusted that Her Majesty's Government would not recede from the position which they had originally taken up, Allusion had been made in the course of these discussions to a meeting which had been held in Bradford. His information respecting that meeting was, that resolutions were carried, by large majorities in favour of the original Bill, and that when the question of delay was started it met with strong opposition.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  replied, that he was not prepared to incur any considerable expense for the establishment of a Court of that magnitude. The Government had endeavoured to improve the administration of justice there by appointing a barrister; but, upon the whole, they found that the people were not so well satisfied with his administration of justice as they were with the administration of
 1950
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, in reply, that an officer had been employed in Bengal for the purposes decribed in the hon. Gentleman's Question. That officer was employed to collect and translate what seemed to be of interest in the Native papers of India, and he had no hesitation in saying that considerable advantage had been derived from the means thus acquired of becoming acquainted with the feelings and opinions of the Native population. He was not quite sure that this was sufficient to warrant him in giving orders that it should be done elsewhere, but he had no doubt the other Governments of India had their eyes upon the subject, and they would find—as he had no doubt they would—that it would be advantageous to pursue the same principle in Madras and Bombay.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD , in reply, said the Government had not issued any recent instructions, because they were in expectation of receiving by every mail a Report relating to the administration of Dhar during the last year. An order had, as the noble Lord was no doubt aware, been issued in 1860 to restore the administration of the district to the Rajah on his becoming of age, but he was found to be so weakly in body and mind as to be so weakly in body and mind as to be incapable of discharging the necessary functions. During the course of the year ending April, 1863, which was the period up to which the last Report gave any account, the resident Minister took the greatest pains in training the Rajah to enable him to perform the duties of his station. They paid visits throughout the country together, and nearly the whole business of the place was intrusted to the Minister of the Rajah, in communication with whom the Rajah himself was placed. He was not, he might add, without hope the Report which was daily expected might state
 1949
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he rose to take advantage of the opportunity afforded by the course which the debate had taken, to offer an explanation of the conduct of his noble Friend the Duke of Newcastle in giving his sanction to the measures adopted by the Governor of the Gold Coast for the protection of the people placed under British protection. While he was far from wishing to avoid any responsibility that might justly he on himself as subordinate to the noble Duke, the late Colonial Secretary, he begged to say that the cautious and qualified sanc-
 1991 1992 "Collectively, these States lend a willing deference to English authority; because, but for the English power, they would fall a prey to the ambition of the King of Ashantee, who is ready to find a pretext for war whenever his own strength warrants it, and the weakness of the Fantee tribes tempts him to the effort to extend his dominion to the sea coast, which is an object which the Ashantees are known to have at heart." "Thus for several years internal wars have ceased, and the dread of British power and the knowledge that the united strength of all the chiefs in the district we protect, directed by British officers, and supported by a small disciplined force, would be promptly exerted to punish aggression upon any part oft this territory, has been sufficient to restrain even the most powerful of the surrounding tribes or nations from attempting to injure those who acknowledge our authority." 1993 primâ facie 1994
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he was entirely at issue with the hon. and gallant Gentleman on that point; but, at all events, one lesson which they had learnt from the expedition was this— that these West Indian troops as now recruited suffered from the climate of Africa as much as Europeans. Formerly those
 1999
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE : If the right hon. Baronet did not wish for information, he was ready to withhold it, but the right hon. Baronet would find that the opinion of Commodore Wilmot was so candid that perhaps, as a mere matter of party defence, it was rash to use it. The letter was not in any way connected with the terms of the hon. Gentleman's Motion, and it was only on the previous day that he knew of its existence. However, it should be at once laid on the table. This opinion was given on the 7th of April, 1863, before any hostile operations were undertaken, and when it was quite uncertain whether the King of Ashantee meant to invade the protectorate. Commodore Wilmot was most anxious that nothing should be done to involve the colony in war except it were absolutely necessary. In his letter he said—
 "I placed before the Governor the great objections the English Government would have in entering upon a war With the King of Ashantee at any time, much more at the present moment; that their responsibilities would be very great, and who could see the end of such a war with one of the greatest Kings of Africa? Probably he would be joined by Dahomey and the Kings in the neighbourhood of Lagos and other places, who were always ready (urged on by Europeans adverse to English influence in Western Africa) to take up arms and keep us in a constant state of disquietude and alarm. I showed what the expense would be, the probable loss of life, the destruction of trade, and that whatever the result might be the future of this colony must be greatly retarded. I implored them to do all in their power, compatible with the honour of England and a sense of justice to those who claimed our protection, to avoid a war if possible, and at all events not to commence hostilities with their eyes shut before they had communicated with the King of Ashantee and found out what his intentions were. In the meantime I recommended preparations of every kind, and that arms, ammunition, &c., should be got ready with all despatch." 1995 "My opinions were asked and freely given. I said anything is better than this uncertainty. If you believe the rumour that the King's soldiers have passed the rivers and committed these unfriendly acts, despatch immediately a messenger to the King, and ask him why he permits this and what he means by such Conduct. Ask him in plain terms if this is to be considered a declaration of war and give him a certain time for the messenger to return. Should the messenger not return on the specified day, instantly form a camp in the country, call the tribes around you, and drive the rascals back again." "I am quite certain that had the Ashantees made a determined push two months ago towards the seaside they would have captured all our forts and desolated the country." 1996 "A reinforcement of soldiers has been sent from the Gambia, and if the commanding officer of the troops now in the field will only act with vigour and judgment, I am quite certain that the Ashantee King will very soon be brought to terms, and that the future peace of the colony will be secured." "Should no opportunity be found of striking such a blow without entering the Ashantee terri-
 1997 Ironic cries of 1998
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said he did not understand the hon. and gallant Gentleman; certainly the time during which those deaths occurred was as much as twelve months, and there were two campaigns within that time.
 MR. POTTER  admitted that he had been opposed to the Factory Acts before their introduction, but that the had become a convert on seeing their beneficial working. He placed most perfect reliance on the conduct and character of the factory Inspectors, and should support the retention, of the clauses.
 LORD FERMOY  said, he hoped some change would take place in the constitution of the Irish Board. The Secretary for Ireland ought to represent the Board in that House if the Chancellor of the Exchequer represented the financial department.
 MR. CARDWELL : I rise to answer the two questions put to me by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich (Sir John Pakington), whose view of the policy of these transactions differs so widely from that of the right hon. and gallant Gentleman who has just sat down. The right hon. Baronet entirely approves the despatch which the right hon. and gallant Gentleman says is calculated to give so much confidence to the King of Ashantee. The right hon. Baronet says that the statement I made on a former occasion in answer to his question was perfectly satisfactory, provided it was carried into effect, and then he asked me how the pledge given had been performed by the Government. He approved the despatch, but then he asked how that despatch tallied with the course of the Secretary of State for War? That despatch was written, as it purports, in concert with my noble Friend the Secretary, of State for War, and the answer which my noble Friend the Secretary to the Admiralty has given to the House shows that on the following day a letter written by my noble Friend carried into effect, and into full and complete effect, the statement I made in this despatch. The right hon. Baronet asks me what is meant by the normal state of the force on the Gold Coast. Now the normal state of the force on the West Coast is two battalions. Of these two battalions, one is divided between Lagos and the Gold Coast. These details are not within my immediate cognizance, but I am informed when the men sent for by the Admiralty are carried to the West Indies, and when the detachment sent to Lagos are withdrawn, the number left will be under 600 men, corresponding precisely with the answer I gave. I think I have completely answered the two questions put to me by the right hon. Baronet. Now, in answer to the right hon. and gallant Gentleman who has just sat down, and who says that these papers show very great neglect on the part of the Government, let me be permitted to ask him whether he has seen that the commanding officer, up to the latest moment, speaks in language entirely at variance with that which the right hon. and gallant Gentleman has just addressed to the House. So late as the 12th of February he speaks of "the whole force being safely
 2011 "He regrets not being able to carry out our original intention of invading the Ashantee country, for which I was in every other respect well prepared, having at these camps seventy days' meat for 1,200 men, and forty-two days' biscuit in store for a similar number." "Whether the declaration of a war with the King of Ashantee was right or wrong is a question of local policy; but that the Home Government has failed in making provision for preserving the health of, the troops is an assertion which I deny." "The  Tamar "With the food and the mode of hutting at the Prah no fault can be reasonably found. Assistant Commissary Blanc, the commissariat officer in charge at Cape Coast, had made such excellent arrangements, that long prior to the month of April the rations at the Prah amounted to a supply of fifty or sixty days for 1,200 men, the whole available force." "Mr. Blanc, told me, that the preserved meat brought so abundantly from England for the troops was the best that he had ever seen. Staff Assistant Surgeon Hammond Spoke also in the same laudatory strain. He informed me that he did not recollect to have witnessed so much care and forethought displayed in the packing and selection of medicines as was displayed in the packing and selection of the medicines transmitted from his department." 2012
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, it was one of the disadvantages of the manner in which the Government had been formed, that the heads of neither the naval nor the military Departments were in that House, and that the noble Lord, whose abilities and industry he did not dispute, but who was not a Cabinet Minister, and who had had nothing to do with the planning of this expedition, and was not responsible for carrying it out, had been called upon to reply to the speech of the hon. and gallant Member opposite. It was not surprising that his explanations had been very un-
 1976 laches "The troops arrived at the Prah about the 1st of February, and on the 8th of April, when the  Tamar fête 1977 Tamar 1978 Tamar Tamar Tamar 1979 1980 laches
 MR. WICKHAM  said, the men employed in the warehouses at Bradford had assured him that the hours of labour were not excessive, for that they did not commence work till eight or nine, and sometimes as late as ten o'clock.
 MR. CRUM-EWING  observed, that he had not the slightest objection to the hours and regulations of the Bleaching Act being applied in this case.
 MR. CRUM-EWING  said, that the Bradford people, for the purpose of sparing themselves a little inconvenience, were willing to withhold benefits conferred by the Act from a large number of women and children. He regretted very much the course which the right hon. Gentleman had indicated his intention to pursue. He maintained that there was not only evidence sufficient to show that the clause was needed, but that its necessity was felt by all but those against whose interests it would operate. Petitions had been presented from all the great towns praying for restrictive legislation, and those petitions had in all cases been carried at public meetings and by overwhelming majorities. There were 2,500 boys employed in the warehouses of Manchester alone, and he asked the Committee whether that large number of children was to be left to the tender mercies of their employers. He should support the retention of the words proposed to be omitted.
 MR. BUTT  expressed his concurrence with the views of the noble Lord, and thought it would be desirable that the Board of Works in Ireland should be represented by a Minister in that House. The Chairman of the Board was totally removed from the control of Parliament.
 MR. J. A. TURNER  said, that the manufactures of the country did not at all deserve the strictures of the hon. Member for Sheffield, as they were desirous of contributing in every possible way to the comfort and interested of their workpeople. He would express a hope that the right hon. Gentleman would adhere to his resolution to omit the shipping warehouses from the Bill. He entertained a strong opinion that the greatest injury would be inflicted on the young persons and women employed in the warehouses at Manchester if they were included in the provisions of the Bill.
 MR. BAGWELL  said, he would withdraw his Motion. He was perfectly satisfied with what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department.
 MR. BAGWELL  said, he wished to bring under the notice of the House the condition of the needlewomen and tailors of the metropolis. Last year the community were startled by the case of an unfortunate needlewoman who met her death in London. She had been in the employment of madras Elise, one of the fashionable dressmakers of the metropolis, and her death was accelerated by working in an ill-ventilated room. At the time of the occurance the Secretary of State for the Home Department, in reply to a question asked in the House, said he should be glad if something could be done by Parliament in reference to the ventilation of these buildings and workrooms. Twelve months had elapsed since the unfortunate occurance to which he alluded, and nothing had yet been done. He (Mr. Bagwell), therefore, thought the Government ought to state what were their intentions. If they were not prepared to
 1940
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the instruction suggested by the hon. Member was not one that could be sent to the Committee, as the hon. Member had not given notice of his Motion. He must, therefore, request the hon. Member to withdraw it.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that the contest was between men who wished to advance the interests of the working classes and those who from selfish motives desired to employ them; a contest which had been carried on in that House for the last forty years. Legislation in favour of the working classes had been opposed at every step by the manufacturers. The first step was taken by his lamented friend Joseph Hume, who required that the power of
 1942 1943 1944
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he would append to the right hon. Gentleman, after the statements made that afternoon, and ask him whether he could have the courage to face the feeling upon the subject out of doors as well as in the House?
 MR. ROEBUCK  repeated his statement that no legislation had been introduced without opposition from the manufacturers.
 MR. COLLINS  said, he thoroughly believed in the advantages which had accrued from factory legislation, and he regarded the measure before the Committee as a step in the right direction.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that it would be exceedingly improper for the House to adopt the suggestion of the hon. Member. Very large
 2025
 MR. BAXTER , suggested that an extension of the Bleach Works Act would meet the case of the packers. He was disappointed to hear from the Under Secretary of State that no further legislation was contemplated, but merely inquiry. In his opinion, the inquiry into the state of the trades under discussion would only be a waste of time, for the result must be the same, as legislation could not be avoided. He was himself a calenderer and finisher in Dundee, and for many years had prohibited employment in his
 1946
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, If he will take into his favourable consideration the wish of many respectable British Merchants and Traders in British Burmah, to have a High Court of Judicature established at Moulmein?
 MR. BAINES  said, a petition had been presented from the Leeds Chamber of Commerce bearing out the, idea of the hon. and learned Member for Belfast (Sir Hugh Cairns), who said he had put no pressure upon the Government. He had merely presented a petition from the Leeds Chamber of Commerce in favour of further in-
 1947 exparte
 SIR FRANCIS CROSSLEY  said, he believed that his right hon. Friend had not withdrawn the clause on account of any pressure from the manufacturers, but because information had been received from Manchester alone; and it was considered necessary that the state of things in the other great towns should be inquired into. The truth was, that the warehousemen were afraid of the Act in the same way that the manufacturers feared the introduction of the Factory Acts, but he felt certain that their opinion would by-and-
 1945
 MR. F. S. POWELL  said, he wished to call attention to a recent case which had come before the magistrates. A factory in which the provisions of the Factory Act had been violated, was proved to a situated in two counties. It having been ascertained that the process carried on in the county in which the proceedings had been instituted was not in contravention of the Act, the presentation failed. He trusted that if the Government contemplated any Consolidation Act, which had been hinted at, the anomaly to which he referred would be provided for.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he should be sorry to revive long forgotten controversies, but he might safely affirm what was a very gratifying fact, that experience had shown the Factory Acts to have been successful in every respect. There was another principle, however, concerned in the present measure, that of legislating without sufficient inquiry. He could not but regard the course which his right hon. Friend proposed to take as correct, because the proposal was simply one of postponement for the purposes of inquiry, and not one of exclusion.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that a Commission had been appointed to examine into the state of those trades, and it would be unadvisable to legislate upon the subject until that Commission had made its Report. He could make no distinct pledge upon the subject, but he hoped his hon. Friend would be satisfied that the Government would give the matter the earliest attention possible.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he did not rise to represent any, interest objecting to the curtailment of labour. He thought however, that the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman was a very fair one to the parties whose interests would be affected by the Bill. A little, delay and further inquiry would result in more satisfactory legislation than could be obtained in the present state of their information.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  observed, that the noble Lord the Secretary for the Admiralty had told them that the  Gladiator 2014 Gladiator Gladiator Gladiator 2015
 SIR JOHN HAY : I did not say he refused to do anything. On the contrary, I spoke of him in the highest terms. I blamed the Admiralty system which prevented orders from being given to Captain Stirling to meet the contingency.
 SIR JOHN HAY : The Return is distinctly from the 1st of July, and does not include the first campaign.
 SIR JOHN HAY : I must correct the right hon. Gentleman. The mortality to which I referred did not extend over twelve months, because the Return is from the 1st of July.
 SIR JOHN OGILVY  said, he thought that the postponement proposed by the right hon. Gentleman for the purposes of further inquiry was but reasonable, as so many gentlemen had complained that their business would suffer from unnecessary interference, and that if time were given them they would be able to prove their case.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, I wish to say a few words before this debate closes, simply with the object of asking an explanation from Her Majesty's Government on two or three points which have been only very slightly adverted to this; evening. I do not intend to say a word on the policy of the Ashantee war, if that can be called a war in which there
 2000 Megæra 2001
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I am sure the hon. Gentleman will not deny what I say. It is a question of fact. I am informed—and I am sorry my hon. Friend is so much annoyed about the matter—I am informed that when the machinery arrived it would not work. If I am wrong, nothing can be easier than to expose the statement. Passing from this point, which seems to cause so much disturbance to hon. Gentlemen opposite, let me ask when this machine arrived out? Why, not till February—the first reinforcement of our troops, swelling the whole number to 1,200, having arrived in the previous August. During the interval our troops had to suffer the miseries and calamities caused not only by the destructive climate, but by the want of proper comforts. The painful and horrible results we all know; but as to the Return, I must really make some complaint of the carelessness with which it has been prepared. The number of the officers on one page does not correspond with that on the other. In the first page a list is given of the number of officers, and they amount to 64. We then find that no less than 35 are either dead or disabled by sickness; but in the next page the number given as effective is 48, which would raise the whole
 2002 "I may be fairly asked what is the course we intend to take in these circumstances? The last mail, as I have said, has only reached me within the last few days, but since its arrival I have been in communication with my noble Friend at the head of the War Department, and also with His Royal Highness the Commander-in-Chief, as to what ought to be done in the present state of affairs; and now I have to inform the House that the determination at which we have arrived, and which I propose to announce to the authorities on the spot by the mail which leaves England on Monday next, is this—that transports shall be immediately dispatched to remove from the coast troops to the amount of those who have recently been sent there, so that the number may be reduced to that which can be accommodated with the means ordinarily available upon the Gold Coast, due regard being had to health and comfort." 2003 "It appears that the number of troops upon the coast will now be more than double the number for which the buildings will afford accommodation, and that the removal of a considerable number will be necessary for their own health and comfort, and for the health and comfort of those who are left, behind. Immediate arrangements, therefore, are intended to be made by the War Department, for reducing the force at your disposal to its normal strength, and removing the remainder from the coast," Gladiator 2004
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he rose to order. He apprehended it was a letter or a despatch that every one would be anxious to see and read, but as it was not in the hands of hon. Members he submitted the right hon. Gentleman was out of order in referring to it.
 MR. ADAM  said, he would also beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether, considering the great importance of our obtaining a better insight into the feelings of the Natives of India, and better information as to their opinions, he will not recommend each of the Governments in India to appoint an officer whose duty it shall be to translate and report to Governments in India to appoint an officer whose duty it shall be to translate and report to Government all matters of public interest discussed in the Native Press; and whether such an officer has not been already appointed in Bengal, whose labours have proved most useful?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : We have heard it, Sir, in the course of this debate, more than once stated that this is not a party question. I should like to know what name you are to give to a Motion which casts censure upon the Government. The word "censure" has, indeed, been withdrawn from the Resolution, but the censure itself has not been withdrawn from its spirit and substance. The Resolution is no doubt a Vote of Censure on the Government generally. The right hon. and gallant Officer who spoke on the other side said he was anxious to censure, but complained that he did not know whom to censure. He told us he wanted to know on whom he could justly throw the blame which he thought belonged to somebody. I contend humbly that the statements which have been made by my noble and right hon. Friends in the course of this debate show that, at all events, the assertion contained in the Resolution—namely, that the Government have not adequately provided for the comfort and health of the troops landed for the purpose of carrying on war against the King of Ashantee—has been completely and conclusively disproved. Why, Sir, it has been over and over again proved by documents, that every precaution was taken to provide the troops with shelter when they arrived; that they did obtain that shelter, notwithstanding a calamitous accident, which deprived them of the use of those buildings on which they might have reckoned; and that in the course of a few days after they landed they were all placed where they could find protection against the inclemency of the weather. It has been shown by my right hon. Friend, from authentic documents, that the supplies of food of all kinds were ample, whether of meats, of biscuits, or of flour. It has been shown that the medical arrangements were as good as it was possible to make them. It has been shown that every effort was made to procure for the troops a supply of distilled water. The right hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich forgot that it
 2016 2017 2018 2019 Cries of from the Opposition Benches
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : What I meant to say was that in 1842, when Lord Stanley was Secretary for the Colonies and Sir Robert Peel was Prime Minister, the protectorate of the African
 2023
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : If I said the Government of the Earl of Derby, I made a slip of the tongue. I ought to have said the Government in which that noble Lord was Secretary for the Colonies.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSIONE  said, he rose to put a Question to the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty, which he was compelled to preface with some observations, and if out of order in doing so, he would move the adjournment of the House. He wished to know, Whether the  Gladiator Gladiator Gladiator Galatea Gladiator
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, he should not have taken up so much of the time of the House in an earlier stage of the Bill had he not felt convinced that it was unfitted to carry out the object which the framer had in view. In its present shape he believed that object would be effected; and he trusted that it would confer great benefits on the country. The right hon. Gentleman seemed to think that he was opposed to the principle. That was not so. His objection was only as to the form of the measure, which he believed had been rendered unobjectionable by the examination which it had undergone. His right hon. Friend had shown great patience and courtesy in his conduct of the measure throughout, and he considered the House and the country had every reason to thank him. He wished, however, to ask him, Whether a person who paid money into a savings bank on account of life insurance would be considered as a depositor in a savings bank so as to bring him within the provisions of the Savings Bank Act, which prohibited a person from having two accounts at the savings bank?
 MR. J. A. SMITH  said, he believed the operation of the measure would be beneficial. There could be no doubt that in too many cases the funds of existing Benefit Societies were misapplied to feasting and entertainments; and he hoped the Registrar would carry out his intention of disallowing such expenses. As to the deferred annuities, he knew, from experience in his own parish, that they were scarcely understood by the labouring classes. In his parish an office had been open for the sale of deferred annuities for five years, and during that period there had not been a single applicant. The measure would be most serviceable to the mechanics in the towns, but he trusted that in time its advantages would be extended to the population in rural districts.
 MR. NEWDEGATE* : I so thoroughly concur with my right hon. Friend the Member for North Staffordshire in all the objections he has stated against this Bill that I regret he has withdrawn his Resolution, because I agree with him when he says—
 "That no legislation to amend the present law relating to goals can be satisfactory which does not include some definition of hard labour, and a schedule of rules for goals; and which does not provide that all gaols; shall be gradually adapted to the separate system, and for a uniform and classified treatment of all prisoners." 2061 2062 "Does not clause 2 make this Bill applicable to all gaols, except the thirty-one gaols specified in this Bill as to be discontinued, and the Government convict prisons?— Yes. "Whereas the whole discretion vested in the justices under the Prison Ministers' Act of last Session, 26&27  Vict "Would it not be competent to the Home Secretary, under Clause 5, to compel the construction of, or appropriation of, a Roman Catholic chapel in any goal now in existence or to be constructed, except the thirty-one gaols specified in this Bill, if he should think fit to declare such gaol inadequate without such chapel?—Yes. "Might not the Home Secretary remove all the Roman Catholic or Nonconformist prisoners from any goal in which there is not a chapel or a minister of their denomination appointed, to some gaol in which there is a chapel and a minister or ministers of their denomination appointed?—Yes. and make the county pay the expense of removal and maintenance." 2063 "1. It is obvious that to secure an efficient discipline every gaol must have a definite code of rules under which it is governed." Will. IV Will. IV "2. The Committee are of opinion that such rules for gaols as may be thought advisable should be embodied as a schedule in an Act of Parliament, and that the Treasury allowance should be withheld from all gaols where those rules are not in force." 2064 2065 2066 Tablet Weekly Register Weekly Register "Sir George Grey's Prison Bill is threatened with fierce opposition. The Government, seeing the futility of expecting that the Protestant magistracy of the country will surrender their prejudices and voluntarily appoint Catholic chaplains to administer spiritual instruction to Catholic prisoners in the gaols under their jurisdiction, have availed themselves of a Bill which they found it necessary to bring into Parliament for the abolition, of certain prisons and the re-organization of others, to introduce a clause giving the Secretary of State power to order absolutely the appointment of Catholic chaplains in those prisons where the circumstances shall appear to him to warrant such a step." 2067 "With these fanatics and hypocrites religious liberty means the right of going wrong in spiritual masters, and the power of tormenting those who repudiate such a right. Catholics hold to dogma in religious matters, and the Evangelical Protestantism would enforce its own principle of the right of every man to think as he pleases upon religious subjects." "As Protestantism is based upon the right of private judgment in matters spiritual, the Government and the Parliament, consisting mostly of Protestants, concluded, naturally enough, that in this Protestant country the benefit of the great Protestant principle would be freely extended to non-Protestants, and that Protestant magistrates and guardians would cheerful take the requisite steps for the religious instruction of Catholics in prisons and workhouses, not withstanding the maintenance of the opposite principle by all members of the Catholic Church. Unfortunately, their confidence was lamentably misplaced." "The permissory character of the prison Minister Bill is traceable to a far different source. Sir George Grey was apprehensive of arousing Protestant bigotry and intolerance by a compulsory measure, and he tried to coax the 'great unpaid' into a liberal and generous course. He has failed egregiously, as we foresaw from the beginning, for the Parliament is far more liberal than the nation; and the deeper we descend into the substratum of English society, the more copiously do we discover the existence of intense bigotry and intolerance. The Clerkenwell magistrates and the Chelsea Guardians are animated by the like spirit—intense hatred of the Catholic Church; and as the same feeling, though, perhaps, less virulently, pervades the mass of English Protestantism, especially amongst the country squires and the middle and lower classes both Government and parliament must at once make up their minds either to leave gross and admitted injustice unredressed and unrectified, or to make their remedies compulsory as regards both prisons and workhouses.? 2068 Weekly Register "Under the Act of Parliament, if there were sixty Catholic paupers in the Liverpool workhouse, and as many Catholic clergymen in the borough there is no authority in the poor law officials to prevent the visit of the whole of those sixty priests to the institution at the same time and at all hours of the day every day of the year." Weekly Register "Sir George Grey has fixed Monday next for the second reading of the Gaols Bill, and as the evangelical bigots in London and throughout the country are straining every nerve to defeat the measure, merely because it empowers the Government to order provision to be made for the spiritual instruction of Catholic prisoners, it is of the last importance that the Irish Members—[let the House observe that it is an English Bill]—who represent Catholic constituencies, should be at their post to support the Home Secretary." 2069 2070 2071 "It was through my intervention that the prison dietary of Pentonville was improved, that the prisoners now receive a dietary which seems to some persons to be so extraordinary. I did this," he went on to say, "by threatening to resign unless the dietary was improved; for I found that the minds of the prisoners were sinking under the debility of their bodies, and that the punishment practically inflicted was so severe that their sanity failed under the system." "My attention has been forced to the results of the system of separate imprisonment. As president of Bethlehem Hospital I have been compelled to hear the warrants of the Secretary of State read for the admission to that lunatic hospital of the victims of the separate system sent from the two Government prisons—the Millbank Penitentiary and the Pentonville prison. The noble Marquess is doubtless unaware that during the last ten years no fewer than forty lunatics have been sent from the Penitentiary to Bethlehem, while in the preceding ten years only fourteen were so sent; and are the public expected to believe that this fearful increase is not the direct result of the separate system?"
 MR. PACKE  said, he rose to second the Amendment. He should like to know some good reason for the proposed change in the system of collecting the taxes. The right hon. Gentleman had happily for himself found the means to muzzle the sixteen Members for the metropolis. ["No, no!"] If that was not so he had no doubt their votes would be given against the Bill. Strong petitions had been presented against the Bill from the Tower Hamlets, from Marylebone, and St. Martin's, Westminster. In addition, petitions had come from all parts of the country, for there never was a more unpopular Bill. There were very strong petitions from Birmingham, Newcastle-on-Tyne, Bath, Stockport, West Bromwich, and other influential towns, against the Bill. People generally were not very fond of paying taxes, but if they must pay them they did not like to have the unnecessary trouble and inconvenience put upon them which the Bill proposed. There were many small sums which the poorer classes had to pay for taxes, and they would not like to have to walk several miles to the market town to pay them. There ought to be very strong reasons to justify them in passing a Bill to inflict the burden on the poorer classes, and he had heard none at present. Another objectionable feature of the Bill was, that persons living in the country would have to pay their taxes to the exciseman—never a very popular officer— instead of to the village collector, as heretofore. He, therefore, very cordially seconded the Amendment.
 LORD NAAS  said, that railway companies had obtained their Acts under certain restrictions imposed on them in Select Committee, and it would be most unfair by a public general Bill to impose new conditions on these undertakings. Some of these small Irish railways had been for some time worked at a considerable loss, and it would be an ill-advised proceeding on the part of the Legislature to make that loss greater than it otherwise would be by passing the Bill. It was true that a population of 600,000 might be deprived of the means of travelling on Sunday, but probably not one in 100,000 wished to travel on that day. He, therefore, begged to second the Amendment, and he hoped that the House would pause before embarking in legislation of this kind.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he was glad to hear what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, because at one period it was doubtful whether the present admirable measure would pass. He thought it would prove a most useful Act, as it gave to the working classes such a security as they were entitled to. The country at large would be benefited by the reduction of the poor's rate, while the poor being relieved from the hardship of being thrown on the bounty of others would be advanced in the social scale.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether it be the intention of the Government to grant a Subsidy of £5,000 per annum, or any other sum, to the "Company of African Traders (Limited);" if so, upon what conditions the Subsidy will be granted, and whether it will previously be submitted to Parliament for approval?
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET , in reply, said, the vessels were captured in the waters of Jamaica on the 14th and 15th of October, 1860, by the  Barracouta Laura
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that he thought that what he was about to state would be satisfactory to the hon. Baronet. The War Office had made an arrangement by which instead of the removal of 500 men from Cape Coast Castle 700 men would be removed. Of these, 500 would go to the West Indies and 200 to Lagos. From Lagos 200 would be removed to Sierra Leone station. That had necessitated an alteration in the arrangement of the Admiralty. It was now proposed that the  Gladiator Waubojeen Bulldog Gladiator Gladiator Waubojees Gladiator Gladiator
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he thought that there would be no such likelihood; but still he should be happy to adopt any Amendment if it should be found necessary.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS : Sir, I think the speech of the hon. Member for Liskeard must have shown Her Majesty's Government that the interest felt in this subject is not confined to this side of the House. I am sure that when these few observations are read by the country to-morrow, people will feel and will probably express a deep sense of the position in which the House of Commons is placed by the refusal of information on the part of Her Majesty's Government upon those questions which excite the country from one end to the other. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer has stated, that in the absence of the noble Lord and of notice of the intention to ask these Questions, it is impossible for him or any other Member of the Government to reply to them. But, Sir, I think that on the eve of such important and momentous events, if it be true that there is no Member of Her Majesty's Government competent or willing to reply to Questions of this importance except the noble Lord himself, then it is the duty of that noble Lord to be here in his place. [Viscount PALMERSTON at this moment entered the House.] I rejoice to see that the noble Lord has taken his seat. I trust he will be able and willing to give that information which hitherto has been asked in vain from Her Majesty's Government. Probably the noble Lord will be informed by one of his Colleagues who sits next him what the information sought for is. [Sir GEORGE GREY: Repeat the Questions.] Well, then, I will repeat them, and I ask—first, Whether Her Majesty's Government can give the House any information with respect to the declaration alleged to
 2033
 MAJOR GAVIN  said, that 50,000 of his constituents were calling out for the opportunity of travelling on Sundays. No one regretted more than himself that the shareholders in these lines were not making money, but they had driven the public cars and all other conveyances off the road, and, therefore, the population must all become pedestrians unless the trains ran between the termini. He was once brought within twenty, miles of his house on Sunday, and he could not get borne for dinner; and he knew of a case in which a doctor could not be had from Dublin to a person who was dangerously ill for want of such railway accommodation as this Bill sought to provide. He hoped, therefore, the House would consider the interests of the majority, and support the Motion for the second reading.
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he should support the Bill. Great inconvenience was felt in the north as well as the south of Ireland from the want of Sunday trains. He knew places in which railway communication was suspended for thirty-six hours.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he had heard with surprise the objections of the hon. Baronet (Sir John Trollope), that the character of the Bill as a permissive Bill was something quite new. The fact was that all legislation in respect of local self-government during the last twenty years, had been of a permissive character. Then as to the exemption of the metropolis from the Bill, he would remind the House that when the Municipal Reform Act was passed the metropolis was exempted, and when it became necessary to deal with the local management of the metropolis a special Act was passed. There was nothing, therefore, extraordinary in the principle of the Bill of exempting the metropolis from its provisions. It had been said that the exemption was the result of a compromise between the metropolitan Members and the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer; but he certainly was not aware of any such compromise. If the Bill were extended to the metropolis it would be necessary to introduce some special provisions, in order to place it on the same footing as the rest of the country. If the Bill were not found suitable, and if it were rejected throughout the country, there could not possibly be any danger to the metropolis; but if, on the other hand, its working were found to be beneficial, there was no reason why its advantages could not be extended to the metropolis at a future time. As the Bill at present Stood, however, he believed it would be very injurious to the metropolis.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that when the Bill was formerly under the consideration of the House a great sensation was created throughout the country, because the working classes believed it would come into
 2039 2040
 MR. AYRTON  said, that as the Bill now stood many persons who held Government stores, which they acquired honestly, might be subject to punishment.
 MR. LEFROY  said, he never heard so important a proposition supported on such poor grounds. Notwithstanding the number of persons said to be shut out from travelling for want of railway accommodation, it was quite evident that they were not able to support Sunday trains. The hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir Colman O'Loghlen) should ask the House not only to run trains, but to give money to enable the companies to do so. It would be unfair to oblige 800 railway servants to give
 2107
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I do not think that these are Questions which it is at all necessary to place on the paper. I consider that I am perfectly justified, in the present state of affairs, in putting these Questions to Her Majesty's Government without a formal notice.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I wish to make an inquiry of Her Majesty's Government in regard to circumstances connected with the Conference. In the first place I wish to ask the Government, Whether they can give the House any information respecting a statement, believed to be perfectly authentic, on the part of the Prussian Minister, at the last meeting of the Conference? He is alleged to have stated that in case the German ports were blockaded, the German Powers would no longer consider themselves bound by the Convention of Paris in regard to privateering. I wish in the second place to learn from Her Majesty's Government whether, in case of the Conference breaking up its proceedings on Wednesday, we are to understand that hostilities will commence on the 26th? The third question is, whether if the Conference concludes, under any circumstances, its business next Wednesday, we may understand from the Government that the protocols will be placed immediately on the table of this House?
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that after listening to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, he should not think it necessary to move the Amendment of which he had given notice, but he felt there was still an important point at issue between them. The right hon. Baronet proposed to confer upon the Secretary of State powers which he (Mr. Adderley) thought ought to be defined by Act of Parliament. There would be no difference of opinion on the title of the right hon. Baronet certainly to the thanks of the House for introducing the Bill, because some reform in prison discipline had become absolutely necessary, and was the more imperative now that they had been dealing with the higher branches of the secondary penal code. It would be monstrous to reform the system of penal servitude while prison discipline, which formed the base of the system, was left untouched. As the right hon. Gentleman had said—one great object of reforming the law relating to prison discipline was to arrive at something like an uniform system. Such was the object of the Acts of George IV. and William IV. So again the object of the Lords' Committee was, in the first place to make imprisonment more feared; and next, to make the system uniform. So important did he consider uniformity of system to be, that for himself he would prefer a worse system that was uniform to a better system which was of uncertain application throughout the country. The principal objection to the Bill was, that it did not provide sufficiently for insuring uniformity; and even the attempt that was made in it to gain that end was based upon a wrong principle, by leaving sentences to be carried out to the satisfaction of the Secretary of State instead of defining them by Act of Parliament. That was quite a new principle, which he believed would be productive of the worst species of centralization. Secretaries of State were changed, and they were not always men having the same views; besides which it was almost impossible for any Secretary of State to have sufficient knowledge of the circumstance of every case to enable him to judge accurately whether punishments were satisfactorily administered. But he would appeal to the right hon. Gentleman against himself. The
 2056 2057 2058 2059 Will
 MR. NEWDEGATE : It was written in 1847, and my attention was first directed to it by the late Duke of Richmond, one of the Commissioners for the management of the Pentonville experiment. The right hon. Gentleman was himself one of the Commissioners, and, highly to his honour, concurred with Sir Benjamin Brodie and the other Commissioners in the necessity for raising the prison dietary up to a high scale, because it was found that the prisoners could not bear separate confinement on a low dietary. The right hon. Gentleman deserves all honour for the part he
 2072 2073
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the hon. Member had misunderstood him. The questions he had put turned on the effect of the whole Bill, and not on one particular portion of it.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he wished, in justice to the hon. Member (Mr. Harvey Lewis), to make one observation. On a former occasion he (Mr. Newdegate) had stated that the withdrawal of the hon. Member's Amendment was so sudden that the large towns had been taken by surprise; but the hon. Member had since written to him and conclusively shown that a circular was issued which gave the large towns due notice of the intention to withdraw the Amendment. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had justified the Bill before the House by saying that in many of the rural districts the collectorates
 2102
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH : It appears that on this serious Question the Government is not in a position to give an answer; they are here without their head; they are a  corpus 2032
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he must admit that there were parts of the Bill which deserved approval, such as allowing payments of taxes to be made by Post Office orders, and by stamps, and also the removal of the liability to pay taxes twice over, owing to defalcations on the part of the collectors. Still he had been disagreeably impressed by the exemption granted to the metropolis. The result would be that if passed the measure would really only operate in the country districts, an exceptional mode of legislation which was very objectionable. Again, the Bill proposed a complete change in the mode of payment of the assessors. Under the old law the collectors were paid by a poundage; but under the proposed measure they were to be paid at the rate of three half-pence a line on the certificate of assessment. He wished to ask for an explanation of that mode of payment. It would be extremely difficult, he believed, to carry the measure into operation in large towns; but it was in the country districts that it was proposed to work the Bill, and so far as he was informed, the assessors in those districts would receive no remuneration at all. In his part of the country there were some
 2093
 MR. WHALLEY : One of the questions of the hon. Member was, whether the right hon. Gentleman under the Bill would not be enabled to transfer Roman Catholic pri-
 2080
 MR. WHALLEY  said, the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, instead of answering the arguments of the Mover and Seconder of the Amendment, had endeavoured to distract the attention of the House from the real point raised by that Amendment. The Bill professed to be
 2078 2079
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, when his hon. and gallant Friend spoke to him shortly after the debate, he (Mr. Baillie) told him that he had read the statement, though he could not for the moment say where it was to be found, but he would look for it. He had now to refer his hon. and gallant Friend in the first place to a very able article upon Indian affairs, which appeared in the July number of the  Quarterly Review Quarterly Review
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, he conceived that when such a statement appeared in a publication like the  Quarterly Review
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that the Bill was opposed to the uniform legislation which had taken place on railways. He should vote against the Bill on the ground that they ought not to legislate for one corner of the empire on a different principle from that which they legislated for other parts.
 MR. BLAKE , in moving the rejection
 2104 2105
 MR. BRIGHT : Perhaps the noble Viscount is not able to give the House an assurance at present that the armistice will be prolonged. I know it would be desirable to give all the information that could possibly be given, because it is obvious that there must be a great feeling of interest in the country on the subject. I do not credit hon. Gentlemen opposite with a greater desire for peace than Her Majesty's Government. But the country has a great interest in knowing what the Government may be able fairly to tell us. I have never asked a question on the subject before, nor do I now. But though there may be good guesses or bad guesses as to what a certain plenipotentiary has done, it is clearly not the duty of the Minister, however great the anxiety may be, to divulge facts, which as a Minister represented in tie Conference he is pledged to keep secret. But I think the noble Viscount would get on more easily if he should tell the House all he can, and I should be most happy if he should be able to tell us anything tending to show that peace is likely to come from the negotiations which have been carried on now for some weeks past
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, the Amendment of which he had given notice was not intended to exclude the rural districts at all. There were two classes of tax collectors—those who received large amounts and, therefore, large remuneration, and those who received small amounts and whose remuneration was in proportion, and it was to those two classes that his Amendment applied. He was bound, of course, to look to the interests of his own constituents, and the inhabitants of the metropolis had in large numbers petitioned against the Bill. The Amendment of which he had given notice would not only have referred to the metropolis, but also to other large towns; but when he found that the Members for some of those large towns, the hon. Member for Liverpool for instance, were not against the Bill, he felt bound to give up his Amendment.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he could explain why the metropolis had been excluded. The Bill was a permissive Bill, and the position of the metropolis was different to that of Liverpool or any other large town. In Liverpool all the inhabitants would have an opportunity of saying whether they would adopt the Bill or not. But Southwark, for instance, consisted of large parishes, such as Bermondsey, and those parishes would not have had an opportunity of considering whether they would adopt the Bill or not, because they were connected with the Commissioners throughout the whole county. Those Commissioners would be in favour of adopting the Bill, and so the large parishes of Southwark would be swamped.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, the question raised by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire was the awful consequences which would result to Roman Catholic prisoners if the priests of their faith should be allowed to see them in prison. Now, he maintained that, as it was a right and proper thing that the Protestant chaplain should visit the Protestant prisoners, though they made no application to have him to see them, so it was equally right that the Catholic priest should see those prisoners who belonged to his communion, even though they might have expressed no wish to that effect. It was a fatal thing both to society and the prisoner himself to turn him out of prison unreformed, and he believed that if the religious influence were not brought to bear on prisoners, whether Protestant or Catholic, there was little chance of their conversion from crime. But was it or was it not a greater violation of the principles of religious liberty to force a Protestant chaplain
 2081 2082
 MR. VANCE  observed, that he had received complaints from some of his constituents of the hardship it was to many persons in humble life who had invested money in the National Debt Office in order to secure small annuities, that payments were made only in London, thus involving considerable expense for agency and stamps in the case of persons who lived in other parts of the kingdom. He hoped the Government would consider whether they could not do anything to remedy that inconvenience, by authorizing the annuities to be paid in Edinburgh and Dublin as well as London.
 MR. WALTER  said, that it was not his intention to follow the hon. Gentleman who had last spoken into that particular part of the subject, which, in his opinion, had been somewhat needlessly imported into the discussion; but he rose to say a few words in reference to a gaol which had been twice prominently alluded to—he meant the principal gaol in the county which he had the honour to represent. He trusted he might be excused for saying that the case was not so bad as had been represented. The right hon. Member for North Staffordshire (Mr. Adderley), and the hon. Member for South Nottinghamshire (Mr. Barrow), had stated that in Reading Gaol there was no work at all—that the principle of that gaol was that the prisoners should not work. That was not exactly the case. There was a crank there, and within the last twelve months considerable money had been spent in laying in a store of stones for the prisoners to break, though he believed that breaking stones was not called hard labour. Reading Gaol was one of the first model gaols in this country, and was built about twenty years ago, on the separate system. From all that he had seen, he was not disposed to give an unqualified adherence to the working of that system. Not only were the cells separate, but the chapel was so constructed that no prisoner in it could see another, as it was assumed that there would be great danger in prisoners knowing each other in gaol, lest they might meet again in after life. He thought that was rather riding the hobby too hard. Of course he was in favour of separate cells for sleeping and for occupation during the greater part of the day; but when the prisoners were at hard labour he did not see why they should not work in common, as at Portland and other Government prisons. He was, therefore, by no means disposed to recommend the system at Reading in an unqualified manner. He had noticed that the chaplains of that gaol had always urged on the magistrates the expediency of passing long sentences, for the mere purpose of reformation, which he considered unwise and contrary to the principles of criminal justice. The theory which those gentlemen wish to carry out was that of an exclusively reformatory plan. Now, he had very great doubts whether they could
 2083
 MR. HASSARD  contended that the reason why there were not Sunday trains was because they would not be supported. There were three Sunday trains during the summer season between Limerick and Castleconnell because they paid. And so where the traffic was remunerative trains would be run. He thought, moreover, that if the House legislated at all it should do so with respect to the whole of the kingdom.
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  trusted that the hon. Baronet the Member for Clare would not take the advice to postpone this Bill.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : I hope the noble Viscount will also give an explanation as to the significance of the words used by the noble Lord the Foreign Secretary, in another place, that the fleet was prepared to go anywhere. Were those words used in a warlike sense?
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Although I fully see the inconvenience of provoking any discussion at this moment, yet, recollecting as I do the way in which we drifted into war with Russia, and feeling the urgency of this occasion, and the very perilous precipice upon which the country stands at the present moment—I wish to ask some Member of the Government, if the noble Lord is not in his place to-night, what significance we are to attach to certain words uttered in another place, to the effect that Her Majesty's fleet is fully prepared for any service which it may be called upon to render. These words are so serious, and the peace of this country is so imperilled at this moment, that I take the first opportunity in the interests of peace of asking Her Majesty's Government what significance they place on those words—whether it is one of those idle threats which have lately been too much used in another place; or whether it is a  bonâ fide
 MR. GREGSON  expressed his general approbation of the measure, which had undergone considerable improvement in Committee.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he rose to congratulate the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the successful result which had attended the consideration of the Bill in the Select Committee, to which he had consented to refer it. As originally brought in, the Bill consisted of
 2037 2038
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he believed that the Bill would be much more acceptable if the apprehension had not been entertained that some of its provisions would have the effect of very much interfering with the liberty of action which had hitherto been allowed to the magistrates. A good deal of disappointment had been occasioned also by the fact, that the Bill did not give full effect to the recommendations generally approved by the Lords' Committee of last year. The three cardinal points were the enforcement of the separate system, hard labour, and uniformity of diet, and in his opinion any amendment of the law relating to the management of the gaols would be inadequate which did not contain provisions on these points. As to the apprehended interference with the magistrates, the Home Secretary had stated that he set no value on Clause 4, as it gave no new power, and that he was prepared to abandon it. After such an announcement, he thought that they need not look at that provision with the apprehension entertained by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire. Indeed there existed no necessity for their entering into a discussion upon the subject. With respect to the great question of the religious teaching of prisoners, and of children in workhouses, he had to observe that he should be ready to discuss it at the proper time and in the proper place, but he did not believe that they had such time or place before them at that moment. The question they had to consider was whether they should not allow the Bill to go into Committee in order that they might be enabled to consider the amendments which the right hon. Baronet himself announced that he was prepared to introduce into its clauses, in accordance with the suggestions which had fallen from both sides of the House. If they were all agreed as to a uniform system of gaol management, there would be no difficulty in embodying the requisite powers in an Act of Parliament. He ventured to ask whether the time had not come when Members ought to lay aside their individual crotchets. He could not say that he had himself disapproved of the separate system when it had first been introduced; and his objections to it, as it was carried out at Pentonville, had not quite disappeared; but it had been adopted in almost all the great gaols thoughout the country, and he believed they might take it for granted that it ought to be generally
 2087
 MR. HORSFALL  said, that he had supported the Bill on its second reading because he concurred in the principle, and he was still of opinion that if it was carried out in a proper manner it would confer a boon upon the ratepayers by effecting a considerable saving. He had, however, a strong feeling against the metropolis being
 2094
 MR. O'HAGAN, (THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND) , in reply, said, it was not quite certain that, it would be possible to incorporate the suggestion of the hon. and learned Gentleman in the promised measure. He would, however, see what could be done.
 MR. SCULLY  said, he wished to ask Mr. Attorney General for Ireland, Has his attention been called to the Parliamentary Return, No. 363, as to the Transfer of Land, presented to this House on the 7th of June instant, showing that the poundage (above  ad valorem s Vict ad valorem Vict Vict s d
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I would suggest to the right hon. Gentleman that as the Questions are of considerable importance, it would be better if he would put them on the paper. An answer will then be given to them to-morrow.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I was not aware the adjournment of the House had been moved. I am very sorry that inconvenience should arise either to the right hon. Gentleman or to others with respect to the circum-
 2031
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he could not imagine how the test of value of the Bill could be found in the exemption of the metropolis from its operation. If the Bill were a good one for the ratepayers generally, the exclusion of the metropolis could only be so far disadvantageous to the metropolis itself. If, on the other hand, the Bill called upon the ratepayers to make needless sacrifices, and placed them under new disabilities, it should be rejected altogether. The question of the exclusion of the metropolis was fully debated in Committee, and he could say that all the knowledge he had of the support of, or opposition to the Bill by the metropolitan Members, was that the hon. Member for Finsbury opposed it, and the hon. Members for Lambeth and the Tower Hamlets supported it. How, therefore, it was possible that the exclusion of the metropolis was to determine the question, whether the Bill was a good or a bad Bill, he could not comprehend. That the exclusion or inclusion of the metropolis might be a mistake was another question, but he could not understand how that could form the turning point of the rejection or acceptance of the Bill. The exclusion of the metropolis was, however, to be taken in connection with another feature of the measure. The Bill was a permissive Bill. The right hon. Gentleman who had moved the rejection of the Bill had founded his opposition to the measure in a great degree upon the fact, that it was a permissive Bill; but he must remind the House that no measure of the kind could be passed unless it were a permissive Bill, so that the choice lay between a permissive Bill or no Bill at all. The idea of passing a compulsory measure to wrest from the hands of the local Commissioners the valuable patronage they at present enjoyed was, he believed, a perfectly visionary project. Every one must acknowledge that the services rendered by the Commissioners were not only valuable but essential to the working of the direct taxation of this country, and nothing that he had ever said in that House had had the slightest tendency to weaken the system or undermine the authority of the Commissioners. He had at all times endeavoured to magnify the obligations which were due to the Commissioners, and in every way to sustain their authority, and
 2095 2096 2097 2098
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I shall commence the few remarks I have to make by answering one or two by-questions which have been put to me in the course of this conversation. The hon. Member for Dublin (Mr. Vance) has heard complaints from some of his constituents that annuities purchased in the
 2042 2043 2044 2045 2046
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the precedent of the Act of 1844 would not go to sustain the proposal before the House, for that Act referred only to railways which should be incorporated either in that year or subsequently.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I adhere to my statement.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  explained that with regard to Mr. Pressly he believed that gentleman's opinion was that a compulsory measure would be most economical, but that no such Bill would be likely to pass. As to Mr. Dobson, he still believed, speaking from me-
 2101
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that last year an application was made to the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs in favour of a subsidy which the noble Lord at first was disposed to decline; but upon subsequent consideration he brought the matter before the Treasury with a recommendation in favour of it. Other papers had reached the Treasury which showed that the Company it was proposed to subsidize was a Company engaged in general trade in competition with all those carrying on commerce between this country and Africa. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had no doubt that this demand ought not to be granted without a great deal of consideration on the part of the House, and ample time being given for all those affected by it to be heard. He had no difficulty in saying that he should make no such proposal during the present Session. He thought, however, it would be advantageous if the Government laid on the table the papers received. That would give hon. Gentlemen an opportunity of seeing the case, but for his own part he thought the objections to the proposal were objections of very great weight.
 MR. BARROW  said, he rose to second the Amendment. At the same time, he rested his opposition to the Bill on different grounds from those which characterized the arguments of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire. He (Mr. Barrow) objected to the Bill because he was opposed to the principle of centralization of authority in this country. He considered there was already quite enough of departmental despotism. The Bill would place the local authorities, as far as regarded the gaols, in a different position altogether to what they stood in at present. If the visiting justices, for example, made an inadequate provision as regarded the dietary of the gaol, the prisoners would have some chances of obtaining a remedy for their grievances by appealing in counties to the justices. The provisions of the existing Act clearly showed that this remedy was intended to be given them by the Legislature. The right hon. Gentleman, it was true, had proposed to make improvements in the prison rules, but the existing law already authorizes him to do so by enabling him to revise and alter any rules submitted to him by the visiting justices, and the failure to exercise this power hitherto does not furnish a sufficient reason for depriving the visiting justices of all voice in the matter. It was the duty of the Secretary of State, as part of the executive Government, to see that the law was enforced; but the visiting justices also were a material part of the executive Government; and what he desired was that these two authorities should act in harmony with each other. He was most anxious that the discipline of the prisons should be enforced; and it was with regret that he noticed, upon examining the records of the gaols and the blue-books upon the subject, that re-commitments were greatly increasing. He was anxious that punishment should be both deterrent and reformatory,
 2074
 MR. COX  said, he rose at the same time as the hon. Member for Leicestershire (Mr. Packe) and for the same purpose, to second the Amendment. Although he sat there as one of the sixteen representatives of the metropolis, if a Bill which applied to the country generally, excepting the metro-
 2092
 MR. MITFORD  said, he thought that a consolidation of the various statutes relating to prison discipline was desirable, and he hoped that the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary would direct his attention to that subject. He admitted that there was a good deal in the argument that the Bill was a step towards centralization, yet when he knew that there were numerous prisons deficient in the means of giving hard labour to prisoners and in carrying out the punishments awarded, he must acknowledge that
 2084
 MR. ALDERMAN ROSE  said, it was felt throughout the country that the existing law provided amply for contingencies, and that the enactment of the fourth clause
 2060
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he rose to move the second reading of the Bill. It had two objects, the first and principal
 2103 employés
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I wish, Sir, to make a short statement to the House of the general purport and objects of this Bill. The Bill is founded, in a great measure, on the Report of a Select Committee appointed by the other House of Parliament in the course of last Session, to consider and report upon the present state of discipline in gaols and houses of correction. That Committee stated at the outset of their Report—and no one can dispute their statement — that many and wide differences exist as regards construction, labour, diet, and general discipline in the various gaols and houses of correction in England and Wales; and the opinion of the Committee, as distinctly expressed in the second paragraph of their Report, was that it is desirable to establish without delay a system approaching as nearly as may be practicable to an uniformity of labour, diet, and treatment. Now, in that general object, I must express my entire assent, but I believe it is impossible to obtain absolute uniformity in these respects unless you subvert the existing system of local administration, which I, for one, should be sorry to see superseded in regard to borough and county prisons. If you are to retain the management of those gaols in the hands of local gentlemen not all agreeing in their views, but acting in accordance with certain general rules, with a certain margin for the exercise of their own opinion, you must be prepared to sacrifice something of that absolute uniformity which it may be desirable to attain. For instance, we should all doubtless be glad to see established a system of uniformity in respect to the punishments awarded to crimes of equal magnitude; but when you have your criminal law administered by fifteen Judges as well as by the Courts of Quarter Sessions and by Recorders, you must submit to some inequalities and anomalies, and some variety both in the punishments awarded and the mode in which they are carried into effect. At the same time it is desirable to do as much as you can, consistently with maintaining the present system
 2047 "It was no doubt one of the objects the Lords' Committee of 1835 had in view in advising the appointment of official Inspectors, to secure a general uniformity of discipline; and it is equally true that that object has not been attained to the fullest extent; but this partial failure of the views of the Lords' Committee has not been occasioned by any want of activity on the part of the Inspectors, but if is owing to the tardiness of the local authorities in adopting the recommendations made by them. The want of improvement; however, and the absence of uniformity of practice are not so great as might be inferred from the terms of the Report; on the contrary, the recommendations of the Inspectors have been acted upon in a great majority of instandes—witness the extensive adoption of separate confinement, which has been in a great measure brought about by their urgent and repeated representations. In the last twenty years the number of prisons in which the separate system has been either wholly or partially adopted has increased from two to seventy-nine in England, and in Scotland it has been more or less introduced into sixty-one prisons; and while the number of cells certified for the separate confinement of prisoners under the provisions of the 2 & 3  Vict 2048 "The first step towards a better and more uniform system throughput the country would, in the opinion of the Committee, be found in an authoritative definition by Act of Parliament of the term of hard labour. Nor does there seem to be in this any practical difficulty. Of the various forms which are in force in the several prisons, the treadwheel, crank, and shot drill alone appear to the, Committee properly to merit this designation of hard labour. Of these, the tread wheel and the crank form the principal elements of penal discipline, and might safely be described as such in any future Act of Parliament." "They further recommend that all gaols and houses of correction shall, as a condition to their receipt of the Treasury allowance, both be provided with a sufficient supply of hard labour machinery for the average number of male prisoners sentenced to and medically fit for hard labour, and be annually certified to the Secretary of State as giving the full daily minimum work on treadwheel or crank, as described above." 2049 2050 Will "That on or before the 1st day of November in every year the clerks of the peace for every county, riding, or division of a county in England and Wales, the clerks of every gaol sessions, and the chief magistrates of every city, town, borough, port, or liberty within England and Wales, now having any prison, shall transmit copies of all rules and regulations in force on the 25th day of September in such year for the government of every prison for and belonging to their respective counties, ridings, or divisions of counties, cities, towns, boroughs, ports, and liberties, to one of His Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State, together with copies of such new or additional rules and regulations as may be proposed for the government thereof; and it shall be lawful for
 2051 "That in case of any clerk of the peace, clerk of gaol sessions, or chief magistrate of any city, town, borough, port or liberty, neglecting or omitting to transmit to one of His Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State copies of the rules or regulations in force for the government of any prison which he is required by this Act to transmit, it shall be lawful for one of His Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State after the 1st day of December in every year, to certify what rules and regulations he deems necessary for the government of such prison; and the rules and regulations so certified by such Secretary of State shall thence forth be binding upon sheriffs and all other persons, and shall be the only rules in force for the government of such prison." 2052 "They have observed from the evidence submitted to them that in many of the best gaols a large proportion of the cells are below the precise standard of size, and consequently uncertified by the Inspector. Such cells, however, appear to be used under certain conditions, without prejudice to the administration of the prison or the health of the prisoners. While, for the future, the fullest development is given to the separate system, it will be for the Secretary of State to consider how far the practical object in view may be met, and the difficulties arising out of the expense of a reconstruction of many prisons obviated, by allowing a certain proportion of cells below the average standard to be certified and sanctioned, it being understood that the occupants of those cells shall consist of prisoners undergoing short sentences, who shall be chiefly employed during the day upon hard labour outside their cells." 2053 "That legislative measures be taken as speedily as possible to render the adoption of separation obligatory upon all gaols and houses of correction in England and Wales, and that the payment of the proportion of the charge now issued from the public revenues in aid of the county and borough prisons be made contingent in each case on the adoption of the separate system." 2054
 SIR GEORGE GREY : What is the date of that letter?
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in reply, said, the 4th clause gave no additional powers to the Secretary of State, but he had no objection to withdraw it, though he did not admit there was any foundation for the apprehensions entertained by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire. If he had intended to give the slightest additional power to the Home Secretary with respect to the teaching of religion in prisons, he should have proposed the change in an open way by introducing a clause for the purpose, and he could only regret that he should have been thought capable of acting otherwise. He was also sorry that the hon. Member for North Warwickshire had alluded to a correspondence between the Home Office and the visiting justices of three gaols in Middlesex, because if the hon. Gentleman had waited till the documents were produced he would have seen that the course he had taken was not unworthy the office he had the honour to fill, and that, in fact, the visiting justices of one of the prisons entirely concurred in his opinions. The right hon. Member for Wilts (Mr. S. Estcourt) had expressed his regret that the Bill did not give effect to three of the recommendations of the Lords' Committee—those relating to hard labour, rules, and dietaries. It would be exceedingly difficult, if not impossible, to frame such a definition of hard labour as would be sufficiently comprehensive to include all kinds of labour deserving to be called hard; but he would be ready to accept in Committee any definitions likely to answer all the requisite conditions. The leading rules with respect to prisons were laid down in existing Acts of Parliament, but the proposal of the Lords' Committee to embody in a Bill every rule relating to every prison, while it would produce
 2088
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he wished to ask the hon. Gentleman, Whether as a Member of Parliament, and one who had held a position connected with the Board of Control, he felt justified in making the statement with no other authority.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he rose to Solicit the permission of the House to ask a Question with respect to a statement which was made by the hon. Member for Inverness-shire (Mr. H. Baillie) in the debate on the previous Monday evening. He would not for a moment ask the indulgence of the House in transgressing the rule which prohibited reference to a past debate, were it not that the statement to which he referred affected deeply the character of a public man. His hon. Friend stated, as reported in  The Times
 MR. HIBBERT  said, he did not wish to discuss the Bill from a religious point of view, because he thought the right hon. Gentleman, had satisfied the House that he did not intend to give any power under the third clause of the Bill to appoint ministers. He strongly objected to the power which the Secretary of State for the Home Department proposed to take under the Bill of removing prisoners from local gaols, under certain circumstances, and placing them in county gaols. That was a most unusual, and unwarrantable power, and quite beyond the necessity of the case, which would have been satisfied by taking a power to refuse expenses in prisons where the separate system was not carried, out. He should oppose the clause in Committee. The right hon. Gentleman had said that the petitions against the Bill came only from Protestants, but he (Mr. Hibbert) had that day presented a petition from the visiting justices of Salford, objecting to the power taken by the Home Secretary to direct how punishments should be carried put. Whilst they admitted that there should be a certain definition of hard labour, they held that the powers of the Secretary of State were already sufficient, and that any extension of them would involve an unnecessary and injudicious interference with the duties of the visiting justices. He agreed in the observations of the right hon. Member for South Staffordshire, with one exception. He doubted whether it would be wise to insert the rules for gaols in an Act of Parliament, because that might prevent future amendment in details. The great improvement which had already been effected in county gaols was due not to the Home Secretary, but to the visiting
 2085 s d s d s d s d
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he was quite unable to support the Amendment which had been moved; and he confessed that the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down rather impressed upon his mind the idea that he ought to be very desirous for the passing of a Bill of the character of that before them. The speech of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire seemed to him to be founded entirely upon the apprehension which he entertained with regard to the fourth clause, which the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary had already intimated his readiness to withdraw. He (Sir John Pakington) confessed that he had never been able to understand the strong objections which had been expressed by some hon. Members to that fourth clause; because, as he read it, it only enabled the Secretary of State to do at any time of the year that which he could now do only at a particular period. At any rate it appeared to him to be a matter not worth half-an-hour's discussion. He-must say that he regarded the Bill as a most important one in the interests of this country; and he hoped the House would regard the question as one rather between honest men and rogues than as between Protestants and Roman Catholics. The Prison Ministers Bill appeared to him to have nothing at all to do with the subject before them. The fact was that many serious evils in the gaols had long existed and long been known; and they had been forced into unusual prominence by the very able Report presented by a Committee of the House of Lords upon the state of our prison discipline. A most dangerous and objectionable want of uniformity in the practice in various gaols had been found to exist. In not a few gaols, especially in the smaller towns and boroughs, a degree of laxity and negligence had prevailed which, combined with that want of uniformity, had seriously interfered with and impeded the administration of the criminal law. Under these circumstances, and in presence of that able Report to which he had referred, he thought the right hon. Gentleman (Sir George Grey) would have neglected his duty if he had not, during
 2076 2077
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, he rose to take objection to this measure on the third reading—a course which he was aware placed him under considerable disadvantage. But he begged to remind the House that no discussion had occurred on the principle of the Bill on the second reading, or, at least, the discussion then was very slight and inadequate to the importance of the measure. He took exception to the measure on three main grounds. First, he thought it very unnecessary to disturb the present relations between the taxpayers and the machinery by which the taxes were collected. Next, if it was at all desirable to alter the system upon which the taxation was collected, he thought it exceedingly undesirable to do so by a permissive Bill. And, thirdly, he regarded all Bills which contained large and sweeping exceptions as very objectionable. Having acted as a Commissioner
 2089 2090 2091
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE : The blue-book shows that the right hon. Gentleman is inaccurate.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he hoped, after the expression of opinion which they had heard, the hon. and learned Gentleman would not press the Bill. He thought the arguments of the noble Lord (Lord Naas) conclusive against the Bill. With regard to the poor gentleman who was suffering, and was unable to obtain medical advice, the question really was whether he was not better without it. They had this saying in the North when a man died, "Did he die by the doctor, or did he come by his death fairly?"
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that before the House went to a division there was one point on which it ought to be well informed. His right hon. Friend (Sir John Trollope) had referred to the communications which had been made to the various Commissioners of the land tax in different parts of the country in the year 1860, and the Chancellor of the Exchequer had said that on the whole the majority of those who had answered the questions put to them were favourable to this measure, or to a measure more extensive, and he had rather twitted his right hon. Friend for not having paid sufficient attention to the circumstance. Now it was impossible for any private information to compete with that possessed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, but the right hon. Baronet had good authority for the statement he had made. In the Committee which sat two years ago, over which the hon. Member for Liverpool presided, the question of the collection of taxes by Government officers was raised, and Mr. Pressly, the chairman of the Board of Inland Revenue, in reply to a question put to him with regard to the propriety of some such alteration as that now proposed, said—
 "It would be very desirable that the Government should appoint their own assessors and collectors; at the same time we thought it necessary, some three or four years ago, to address letters to all the Boards of Commissioners in the country, and after reading the answers of the clerks we found it impossible to carry it out." "The replies received were in opposition to our views; there were some consenting parties, but generally speaking they were in opposition to our views." "Can you state generally the nature of the arguments against the proposed change?" "No; but as far as my recollection serves they would not condescend to argue the point at all." 2099 2100
 MR. CAVE  said, the Bill was valuable us far as it went, but he could corroborate what had been stated as to the absolute necessity for regulating the Benefit Societies in a more effectual manner. These societies were of even more importance than any system of deferred annuities to the ordinary day-labourer, who, at the present rate of wages, could do little more than provide against sickness and other contingencies of to-day, without thinking of the future. He did not suppose, therefore, that many members of this body would avail themselves of the Government annuities, which would, however, be of value to other classes. He thought it was the duty of the Government, with the least possible delay, to bring in a Bill for the better regulation of Benefit Societies. The existing law was quite inoperative, and was also extremely unpopular. Working men sometimes boasted that it was easy to drive a coach and six through any of Mr. Tidd Pratt's regulations, and besides they resented the interference of the Registrar as an infringement of their liberty of action. He lately became acquainted with a society, one of the rules of which was that one-eighth of the subscriptions should be spent in drink. If any one would carry out this calculation in reference to the investment of large sums he would see the monstrous absurdity of these regulations. In a police report the other day the case of a man was brought forward who had been expelled in consequence of being sick too often. The magistrate ordered him to be restored, but the managers pleaded that there was nothing in the box, but promised that when there was anything he should partake of it. The society had been ruined in consequence of so many of the members coming upon the sick fund. It was sad to see any man who had worked hard all his life brought to the close of it with no better prospect than the workouse, but it was sadder still to see a man who by prudence and saving had put by a provision for age and sickness, deprived of it through the faults of others. These were matters which demanded serious attention.
 MR. CAVE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Why the brig  Castilla Lola Barracouta 2027 Laura Cadmus
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD : Sir, I fully admit that it is for the convenience of the House that ordinarily notice should be given of important questions. But there are times—emergencies—there are occasions of so serious a character as to justify Gentlemen sitting on this side of the House in insisting, as far as they can, on having a definite answer from the Government as to their intentions in a crisis such as this. It is not, Sir, as if every member of the Cabinet was not in full possession of the circumstances of the case. Every member of the Cabinet must be aware of what passed on Saturday, and there is not a member of the Cabinet sitting on that Bench who is not capable of giving an answer to the Questions of my right hon. Friend. I trust that the House will insist on having a definite answer.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : My noble Friend was asked a Question, whether the British fleet is in a condition to do anything that might be required of it? [Mr. BERNAL OSBORNE: The question was, whether it is prepared to go to the Baltic?] Well, the Baltic or anywhere else. My noble Friend's answer was, in the words of the Duke of Wellington about his army, that the fleet is prepared to go anywhere and do anything, ["Oh, oh!"] I think the British fleet is perfectly capable of performing any service. I do not think that indicates any particular service. I say generally, whatever contingency may happen, the British fleet, I am persuaded, will be found prepared. With regard to the Questions put by the right hon. Gentleman, and repeated by the noble Lord, I would rather decline to state what passed at the Conference held on Saturday or any other day. There was an agreement that what passed at the Conference should not be made public. I am sorry to say that many reports have got abroad as to what has passed between the Ministers at the Conference; but I am sure the House will see that a statement made in breach of confidence, whoever may have committed that breach, is a very different thing from a statement made by the Minister of the Crown in this House, which carries with it authenticity, and which might give rise to discussions which certainly ought to be avoided. With regard to the next
 2034
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : There is, no doubt, a great anxiety in the country for the continued preservation of peace, and I am quite aware that this House must feel a strong desire to know everything that can be properly communicated with regard to the negotiations. I very much regret that my tongue is tied, and
 2035
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, he would not attempt to answer the noble Lord, because it would take him entirely through  Hansard,
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he rose to call attention to the emigration of the Agricultural Population from Ireland, and if any excuse was required for its introduction it would be found in the conflicting statements as to the condition of Ireland which had from time to time been made by different members of Her Majesty's Government. In the year 1860 the right hon. Gentleman the Colonial Secretary, then Chief Secretary for Ireland, said that there was in the world no more striking instance of the growth of national prosperity than was to be found in Ireland, but in a very short time he was contradicted by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who said that public attention had not been sufficiently awakened to the calamities which afflicted that country since the year 1859. The statements of the Members of the Government, however, were in their turn denied by the Irish Members, who in sisted upon the existence of a more widely spread distress than was admitted from official sources; and in the face of that diversity of statement, it was not wonderful that the Irish people should seek for authentic information on a subject which so nearly concerned them. In March last, he (Mr. Hennessy) called attention to the depopulation of Ireland, and showed that there was a decline of 3,000 in the population of that country every week, and also that the emigration from Ireland at that moment was greater than at any other
 48 49 s s d 50 "In my part of the country for certain portions of the year men are very gratified if they can get occupation at 9 d 51 "Of those who went out many, no doubt, enlisted; but their number could have but little effect in keeping up the strength of the Federal armies. It must be borne in mind that by the Passengers' Act all boys above twelve years of age are classed as 'single men,' and a deduction, therefore, of at least 12 per cent must be made from the single men for boys between twelve and eighteen years of age. A large proportion of the remainder emigrated as sons or brothers in families, and were, therefore, not likely to enlist. After these deductions are made there would probably not remain in 1863 more than from 20,000 to 25,000 single men out of whom the Federal army would have a chance of obtaining recruits, and it is not to be assumed that even a majority of these took service." "How heartrending the sight of these emigrants arriving on our wharves, surrounded by sharpers—the harpies of cities—destined to be swept like a torrent of rain into the sewers of society! Hence the hospitals, the poorhouses, and gaols in the States, and to a great extent in Canada, have more than their proportion of inmates of Irish or their descendants. The emigrant ship, where all sexes are huddled together, breaks down the barriers of modesty, and opens the path, in thousands of cases, to ruin. How many a tear has been dropped by those emigrants for ever having left their home!" "The workhouse system of Ireland is most degrading and immoral in its tendency, if the tree could be judged by its fruit. It is humiliating, indeed, to see numbers of poor Irish girls, innocent and guileless, sitting round in those large depots in seaport cities waiting to be hired. Men and women, enter those places, and look round to find out the girl that would apparently answer their service. How many of them found the protection of the wolf is known only to God!" 52 The Times "The papers of all the large cities are filled with 'appeals' from the friends of various eleemosynary and benevolent societies and institutions for aid, in which the sufferings of orphans, widows, and children are set out in the most touching terms. Washington is filled with misery, nor have I ever been in any cities in the world in which the Irish and other poor populations appear to live in more squalor, or to endure greater privations than in the vile alleys of New York itself, Pittsburg, Baltimore, New Orleans, and the other large towns of the Union. No delusion can be greater than to suppose the poor emigrant at once attains a greater degree of physical comfort in the States than he has in his own country." "The capital employed in agriculture, therefore, not only puts into motion a greater quantity of productive labour than any equal capital employed in manufactures; but in proportion, too, to the quantity of productive labour which it employs it adds a much greater value to the annual produce of the land and labour of the country, to the real wealth and revenue of its inhabitants. Of all the ways in which capital can be employed it is by far the most advantageous to society." 53 "That the effects produced by these public works appear to have been, extended cultivation, improved habits of industry, a better administration of justice, the re-establishment of peace and tranquillity in disturbed districts, a domestic colonization of a population in excess in certain districts, a diminution of illicit distillation, and a very considerable increase to the revenue." "We believe that in many instances the principles of sound policy and of a wise economy ought
 54 "I therefore propose to provide works at Killaloe for the passage of 1,200,000 cubic feet of water per minute, without allowing the water to rise on the callow lands, and, at Meelick, for the passage of a flood of 1,000,000 cubic feet of water per minute, similarly confining the water to the river channel, and at all other parts of the
 55 "Mr. Griffith's valuable Report and Table exhibit the amount of waste land in the different counties, classified according to the different degrees of capability for improvement. They show that Ireland contains waste land—improvable for tillage, 1,425,000 acres; ditto for pasture, 2,330,000 acres; total improvable, 3,755,000 acres; waste land unimprovable, 2,535,000 acres—gross total, 6,290,000 acres." "It thus appears that 192,368 families might be permanently provided for upon lots about eight acres in extent by the existing amount of the best
 56 s 57
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : Sir, the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman touches two main points in connection with the condition of Ireland—namely, emigration and agriculture. But on entering into his statement on these two points he has alluded to several other matters to which I desire, with the permission of the House, at the outset to refer. He adverted to the Bill brought in by my right hon. Friend the Secretary for the Colonies (Mr. Cardwell), to settle the question of the tenure of land in Ireland; and I must say it is unfortunate that the Irish people have not more availed themselves of the opportunities which that measure offers them. But, leaving that point, the hon. and learned Gentleman referred to the different, and, as he called them, the contradictory statements of Ministers of the Crown and others as regards the condition of Ireland. On that the House must feel that when a state of depression falls upon a country it is often very difficult to determine accurately what its effects may be till time has enabled us to judge on the
 58 "Look at what the state of the country is, and then consider what the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland and others have stated, and see how different it is from the prospect which they held out." 59 60 61 Cork Daily Reporter, 62 "Sixty-eight per cent— i.e. i.e. "The unemployed labourer at home necessarily consumes more than he produces, and the national wealth is diminished in that proportion." 63 "Your Committee therefore trust that the most deliberate attention of the proprietors of land in Ireland would be called to this subject, and that they may be induced to make voluntary contributions for the purpose of emigration as a relief from those burdens which, though not legally imposed, are yet found practically to press upon them from the superabundance of the pauper population." "The fact is undeniable that generally speaking there is that excess of labour, as compared with any permanent demand for it, which has reduced and must keep down the labourer at the lowest possible amount of subsistence." "Your Committee would particularly wish to press upon the attention of the House that the evils of population furnishing an excess of labour above the demand for it contain within themselves a self-producing and self-aggravating principle, and that, so long as no measures are taken to restrain them, they must not only continue to exist and increase, but by their very existence must prevent the introduction of that capital which, if introduced, would diminish the redundancy by establishing a greater equality between the supply of labour and the effective demand. ֵ The evils of a redundant population, with all the incidental consequences, have been universally felt and acknowledged, and various suggestions have been made for their partial relief. But your Committee cannot but express their opinion that a more effectual remedy than any of those temporary palliatives which had been offered is to be found in the removal by emigration of that excess of labour by which the condition of the whole labouring classes is deteriorated and degraded. The question of emigration as connected with Ireland has been already decided by the population itself, and that which remains for the Legislature to decide is to what points the emigration should be directed." "There is not in Ireland the division of labour that exists in Great Britain; the body of the labouring class look to agricultural employment, and to it only, for support; the supply of agricultural labour is thus so considerable as greatly to exceed the demand for it; hence come small earnings and wide-spread misery." 64 65 66 67 "You will be glad, I know, to hear that our prospects never were brighter in this country than they are at present, and all our crops are looking splendid, thank God!" 68
 MR. MAGUIRE  expressed his admiration of the tone and temper in which the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland had addressed the House. He felt certain that there was no Irish Member, on whichever side of the House he might sit, but would feel that the right hon. Baronet had risen to the dignity of his office, and had demeaned himself not only with courtesy to individuals, but with a gravity that the importance of the subject required. The right hon. Baronet had made a graceful admission that night, and one which he felt the more keenly as it had been his painful duty on many occasions to bring the state of Ireland under the notice of the House. He assured the right hon. Baronet now that the crisis was over, that he was urged to do so from an overpowering sense of his duty. It was painful to Irish Members to have to appeal  ad misericordiam 69 70 71 72
 MR. MONSELL  said, the enormous increase of emigration from Ireland gave him the deepest pain, and he was convinced that if it went on the results would be most disastrous. The richer portion of Ireland, such as that with which he was connected, would probably not suffer so much, but in the poorer portions land which was yielding from 16 s s 73 74
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  observed, that the question before the House was not a party question, and ought to be treated by hon. Members as men of business. The present state of Ireland was connected with the land system in that country, and he believed it could not be treated by rotation crops or by endeavouring to make tea gardens of the agricultural
 75
 MR. M'MAHON  said, the day had arrived when English Members ought seriously to consider the question as it concerned England. He cared more for the tenants of Ireland than he did for the Irish landlords. The tenantry of Ireland had been trying for years to obtain some measure which should induce them to stop in Ireland, but it had been refused them, and now they were seeking in America that which was denied to them at home. By going there they improved their own condition, but injured the power of this Empire. [ Cries of 76
 LORD ATHLUMNEY  said, the House owed a debt of gratitude to the hon. and learned Gentleman by whom the Motion had been proposed, for of all the subjects they could discuss none more deserved their attention. As had been said during the debate, the affairs of Denmark, of Italy, of Turkey, and of the whole world engaged their attention; but what were these in comparison with the affairs of Ireland? He owned that he had been greatly surprised at the observations on the subject of emigration which had fallen from many who had addressed the House. It had been his fortune, or misfortune, to hold a prominent office in the Irish Government during the most disastrous period that had befallen any nation, and from 1846–7 onward a great pressure was placed upon the Government not to check, but to aid the emigration of the surplus population of Ireland. From that time great progress had been made in that direction. Boards of Guardians were empowered to give very considerable aid to emigration, and that movement had to a great extent encouraged the emigration that had since taken place to other lands than our own colonies. The Irish people were deeply attached to their native land, but the warmth of their family affection was unbounded, and there was scarcely a poor family in the distressed districts of Ireland which had not a friend or relation in America beckoning them on to a happier and a better lot. What means had the Legislature of counteracting such a movement? It had been stated that within fifteen years the enormous sum of over £12,000,000 had been sent from emigrants in America to their relatives or
 77 78
 MR. WHITESIDE : Sir, Icannot re-
 79 s Edinburgh Review, 80 81
 MR. BLAKE  regretted being obliged to differ from the noble Lord opposite (Lord Athlumney) in much that had fallen from him, particularly in the satisfaction with which he viewed the expatriation of the Irish people, and his belief that emigration was desirable for their interests and that, of the country. The noble Lord had asked, what better remedy could be suggested under the existing state of things? He was sorry he was not answered by some one more eloquent than he was; but the remedy was so simple, that expressed in the plainest language it lost nothing of its force, and that was, to cherish the people whom famine and emigration had spared, by securing them just compensation for improving the letting value of the land. If the Irish farmer were assured that he would not be wholly deprived of the fruits
 82 83
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Dublin University (Mr. Whiteside) seemed to think it was in the power of any Government to apply some remedy to the emigration taking place in Ireland. Now, he wished the right hon. and learned Gentleman had thrown out a hint as to the nature of the remedy. He believed that some such Bill as that introduced by the right hon. and learned Gentleman and the late Lord Chancellor for Ireland would do much to stop the exodus. He should like
 84
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  said, that no measure of tenant-right would enable the small farmers of Ireland to hold their own. The only remedy for the depressed state of the country would be the development of trade and commerce. Some advantage might be gained from the cultivation of flax, but those who thought that that article could be immediately cultivated to a large extent would be disappointed. It was a matter for serious consideration, whether it was fair to impose the same taxation upon an undoubtedly weak country like Ireland as was paid by one which had the greater means of prosperity, by the development of trade and commerce which were possessed by England.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, that as an Irish Member and an English landlord he had taken a great deal of trouble to examine the relation between landlord and tenant in Ireland, and he must confess he had always felt at a loss to understand the conduct of Irish landowners. An English landlord, when a farm fell vacant, put all the buildings into thorough and tenantable repair, knowing very well that unless he did so he might get a tenant, but not a first-rate one, and that his rent would be unsafe. English landlords supplied the tiles for drainage purposes, and expected the tenants to put them in; and in case a tenant grubbed up waste land he was allowed to hold it for a certain time without increase of rent, and after he had obtained fair remuneration for his outlay the proper increase in his rent was determined by valuation. He felt sure that if Irish proprietors dealt in a similar spirit with those holding under them, they would have a happier and more contented tenantry to deal with. The reason why a similar system was not pursued in Ireland
 85 Cries of
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, it must be owned that the House has listened to a very interesting debate upon a subject which must have excited very strong feelings on the part of every one interested in the national welfare. At the same time, I hope that the hon. and learned Member who brought forward the Motion will be content with the expression of feeling which he has elicited from all sides of the House, and be satisfied to leave the matter as it stands, without pressing his Motion to a division, which might imply a difference of opinion that really does not exist. It is very much to be lamented that circumstances should induce a large
 86 87 88 89
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he could not help remarking that the Resolution had been supported by all the Irish Members who had spoken. The first part of the Resolution was—
 "That the House observes with regret that the agricultural population of Ireland are rapidly leaving the country;" "That the House trusts Government will direct their attention to the subject, with the view of designing some means to induce them to devote their capital and labour to reproductive employment at home."
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he should move the Previous Question.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, before the Question was put he wished to make an appeal to the hon. and learned Member for the King's County. He had listened to the debate with great interest, and he must say he had never heard a debate upon an Irish question conducted with greater ability, or conveying more useful information on both sides of the House. He thought that the hon. and learned Member for the King's County had made out a strong case for the second part of his Motion. He considered, however, that if the first part were carried it might lead to apprehensions as to the opinions expressed in reference to emigration. At the same time, if the Motion were negatived, it would most likely leave an impression on the people of Ireland by no means advantageous as regarded the feelings which existed in that House in reference to the relations between the Government and the people of the sister country. He could not conceive any better solution of the difficulty in which the House was placed than to accept the assurance given by the noble Viscount in his admirable speech. He (Mr. Walpole) must therefore say, that if the hon. Member for the King's County should, notwithstanding, go to a division, he should support the Motion for the Previous Question.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he would venture to make an appeal to the hon. and learned Member for the King's County, grounded on the enormous importance of that Question, and the extreme undesirableness of anything like a difference of opinion being exhibited to the country when they were substantially all agreed. The noble Lord at the head of the Government had reechoed almost every sentiment expressed by the hon. Mover of the Resolution, and the hon. Gentleman would really injure his own cause by dividing the House.
 MR. LEFROY  said, he had not the advantage of hearing the former part of the debate, but he must say that the statements made by the hon. Baronet below him (Sir George Bowyer) were as unfounded and as unbecoming a man who professed to know anything of Ireland as anything he had ever heard. If the House were forced to a division, he should feel it impossible to support that vague and indefinite Resolution. The noble Lord had stated to them
 91
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he wished to say a few words out of respect to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Walpole). He had been asked not to go to a division; but what had the Government done? At the last moment, and without notice, they had moved the Previous Question. There had been a belief in the House that the Government would give way, and that there would be no division, and acting under that impression several hon. Members had gone away. The noble Lord had made a speech, in which he promised nothing, and told the people of Ireland that he did not regret the decline of the population. Except that negative fact, there was nothing in his speech. Deeply regretting to differ with the right hon. Member for Cambridge University and others, he must certainly feel it his duty to press his Resolutions to a division.
 MR. ESMONDE  said, that although he was as anxious as any man for the prosperity of Ireland, he felt it his duty, if the hon. Gentleman went to a division, to vote against his. Resolution, which, even if carried, could lead to no practical result. He did not recollect any debate which had brought home to his mind more forcibly than had been done that night the conviction that there was something good in store for Ireland. He remembered several discussions on the subject, and several Bills which had been thrown out by the advocates of the landlord interest in the House. He thought that a want of moderation had prevented a settlement of the Question.
 MR. BUTT  said, he meant to vote for the Previous Question. The effect of that debate would be marred if the hon. Member who had raised it was so indiscreet as to press a division.
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  said, that although he was generally a supporter of the Government, he should call in that case upon his hon. Colleague to persevere with his Motion. To put Resolutions on the paper without seriously intending to carry them to an issue would create a bad impression in Ireland.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he believed his second Resolution, in favour of employing
 92
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he understood that the Secretary for Ireland had consented to the second Resolution.
 SIR. GEORGE GREY  said, he had understood that the Previous Question covered both Resolutions.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he believed that the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary was right, but great inconvenience was occasioned by the intention of the Government not being distinctly expressed earlier in the debate. The hon. Member for the King's County had met with rather hard measures from the Government.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he had hoped that after the appeal made to the hon. Gentleman he would not have pressed the Motion to a division. It was only when the hon. Gentleman insisted on dividing the House that the Government moved the Previous Question.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he would recommend his hon. Friend not to give the House the trouble of dividing a second time. The Secretary for Ireland had led the House to believe that he would agree to the second Resolution.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he rose to move that an humble Address he presented to Her Majesty, for an inquiry into the condition as to pay and allowances of the Regimental Quartermasters, with the view to place those officers, should it seem expedient, on a better footing. He would not enter into minute details at that late hour, but he wished to remind the House that they were as deserving a class as any in Her Majesty's service. Last July
 93 s d s d 94
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, it would appear upon investigating the claims of that most deserving class of non-commissioned officers, that the rate of pay which they received, more especially upon first appointment, was extremely low. He did not, however, at all admit that because the adjutants or paymasters received a higher rate of pay the quartermasters also ought to receive it. All that the House and the Government had to look to was that a meritorious class, as the quartermasters were admitted to be, should not be asked to serve for an inadequate remuneration. He had reason to believe that their remuneration was inadequate. The Secretary of State, however, did not think it his duty to come forward with any proposition to that House to raise the pay and allowances of the quartermasters without first making minute inquiry. It seemed to the noble Lord (Earl de Grey) that a competent tribunal might be composed, partly of officers who had a practical acquaintance with the duties the quartermasters had to discharge and a practical knowledge of their position, and partly of gentlemen who should represent the Treasury. Such a Committee would be appointed as soon as possible, and the Government would be prepared to act upon their recommendation. He hoped that statement would be satisfactory.
 MR. PEEL  said, in reply, that the revenue derived from letters sent to Australia was not nearly sufficient to pay our moiety for transmitting that correspondence. It had consequently been decided from the 1st of next month to raise the charge on letters to Australia from 6 d s d "One of the advantages of the plan we have adopted will be that it will leave the House and the Colonial Government free to regulate the rates of postage in any way they may think fit."
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, that in asking the House to agree to the Resolution he rose to propose, he had taken a different course from that which he usually followed, because it appeared to him that the approach of a General Election gave him an opportunity of making some remarks which were certainly called for, and which he trusted hon. Gentlemen would take to their hearts. They had heard of Earl Russell climbing an exceedingly high mountain,
 37 Ultima Thule 38 The Times The Times The Times 39 40 malgré 41 The Times? History of his Own Times; "It was not to be expressed the debauchery and lewdness which upon the occasion of elections are now grown habitual throughout the nation, so that the vice and the expense are risen to such a prodigious height that few sober men can endure to stand to be chosen upon such conditions." 42 "That, as a General Election is impending, and it is notorious that our electoral system is defective and corrupt in practice, and as we have no law which can put down the intimidation of voters nor prevent bribery, it is therefore expedient that a fair trial shall be given to the vote by Ballot."
 MR. C. P. BERKELEY  said, that before the noble Lord answered the Question of the hon. Baronet, he desired to put another Question to him on the same
 34
 MR. C. P. BERKELEY : Then I will simply put my Question.
 LORD ALFRED CHURCHILL  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether the rates of Postage on Letters between this Country and Australia has recently been doubled; and if so, whether, considering that our Australian Colonies contribute one moiety of the Postal Subsidy required for this service, they have been consulted as to this increase, or have in any way expressed their opinion respecting it?
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET,  in reply, said, it had not been usual to appoint a
 36
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Sir, the: middle passage to which the hon. Baronet (Sir James Elphinstone) has referred is, as he stated, necessarily taken by vessels going from that portion of the coast of Africa to the West Indies. The transport will be towed out, as I stated yesterday, into the offing, and will probably leave with a south-east trade; by making a westerly course she will probably carry the southeast trade for a day or two, and then get into the north-east trade, thus making the passage to the West Indies nearly as quick as a steamer. Anybody who knows that part of the world knows that in summer time one can run from the south-eastern into the north-eastern trade with very little delay; and I apprehend that the troops on board that ship will be just as comfortable as they would be in a steamer. I do not know exactly at what the Question of the hon. Member for Gloucester (Mr. C. P. Berkeley) is pointed, but I shall be very happy to give him the number of troops upon which the original requisition was founded, and likewise the subsequent arrangement with the military authorities. The first body of troops to be taken away consisted of 480 men, and a certain number of women and children, and were to go from Cape Coast Castle to the West Indies. Subsequently the War Office determined to send about six officers and 200 men from Cape Coast Castle to Lagos, where they will relieve about a similar
 35
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET,  in reply, said, the Court Martial had awarded the punishment referred to in the Question of the hon. and gallant Member; but the Officer commanding in chief on the station had ordered those young Officers to be sent home to be dealt with by the Home authorities.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, To lay upon the table of the House the entire Despatch from Sir Augustus Paget to Earl Russell, of August 10th, in which it is asserted that Count Sponneck was favourable to the neutralization of the Ionian Islands, and which states that "Count Sponneck appears to have no objection to the razing of the fortifications?"
 MR. LAYARD  said, he must call the attention of his hon. Friend to the fact that Count Sponneck was not, as represented, in favour of the neutralization of the Ionian Islands, but merely stated that he did not see why the principle should not be extended. It would be detrimental to the public service to produce the entire despatch.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he would I beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether it is under the direction or with the sanction of the Government, or of the Board of Inland Revenue, that the Income Tax Commissioners for the district of Blything, in the county of Suffolk, required the farmers within that district appealing under the Act 14  Vict
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he would beg to ask, Whether there would be any objection to produce Copies of the Correspondence with the Board of Inland Revenue on this subject?
 MR. PAULL  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he will consent, on the part of the Government, to the further progress, during the present Session, of a Bill entitled "A Bill to amend the Constitution, Practice, and Procedure of the Court of the Island of Jersey?"
 MR. BUTT  pointed out that several important measures had been disposed of at morning sittings. Three years ago he moved for the appointment of a Commission to inquire into the difference between the English and Irish practice. Finding it impossible to succeed in this House, it was with his consent taken out of his hands and carried by a noble Marquess in the other House. That Commission was appointed, and this Bill was founded on the Report of that Commission. Every person in the courts of justice in Ireland who had been examined had given their evidence in favour of the assimilation of the practice in England and Ireland.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he thought that the Government were hardly in a condition to treat a measure of this importance so peremptorily. He had been in the House up to two o'clock that morning; and when he came down to the Committee on this Bill, hearing that no House had been made, he went to the library to get a book containing the Report of the Committee on this subject, and he lost no time. On his return he found that the House had been made, that the Speaker had left the chair, that the Bill was being hurried through the Committee, insomuch that eleven clauses had already been passed. His intention had been to propose that the Bill should be referred to a Select Committee; but he had lost the opportunity of making the Motion by the precipitancy with which the
 24 25 26
 MR. WHITESIDE  contended that he was not going through the Bill clause by clause, but simply showing reasons why the Chairman should report Progress, with a view to his moving in the whole House that the Bill be referred to a Select Committee.
 MR. WHITESIDE : That was precisely so. He proceeded to point out that there were numerous claims for compensation. Then as to the expense of the Bill—what would it be? There was a building clause, under which offices were to be erected; but before they had any ground for these offices to be built on, the staff was to be appointed and paid, whilst the present officers were doing the work; in fact, the measure could not come into operation for two years. He believed the time at which the Bill was introduced was inappropriate, and it would be well to withdraw it, and have some general orders drawn up and submitted to the Chancellor and the Master of the Rolls for their sanction. Another point he wished to call attention to was this, that Ireland was not in a condition to bear increased taxation, which the Bill would impose. It was idle to expect that a Bill of that magnitude could be passed during the present Session. [The hon. and learned Member, whose address had been listened to throughout with great impatience, and who consequently was very imperfectly followed, concluded by moving, That the Chairman do leave the Chair.]
 MR. SPEAKER : One of the difficulties of this case arises from the circumstance that no Report has been made from the Committee to the House. The decision in the Committee was final and conclusive as to the proceedings of the Committee, and the Committee, in consequence of the vote, makes no Report to the House. The hon. Member, as an individual, asks a question of me, which, perhaps, would have been more properly addressed to the Chairman of the Committee, whose decision in Committee is final. The Chairman of the Committee did, in fact, decide the Question by taking the numbers as they were handed to him and accepting that decision, and it is that decision which prevents any Report being made to the House. But if it be the pleasure of the House to be reminded of what has taken place on former occasions, I do not think that the hon. Member could have had any relief under the circumstances of the case. There are several precedents—some of a recent date. In a case in 1856 one of the Tellers for the "Noes" stated that Mr. Wykeham Martin, who was in the lobby with the "Noes," had refused to vote. He had gone into the lobby by mistake. He was informed that, having heard the Question put and being in the lobby with the "Noes," he must be counted with those in that lobby. There is another case which I think is stronger. On the 8th of May, 1860, notice was taken that a Member had been in the lobby with the "Noes," but, having passed the division clerks, had avoided being counted. He stated that he had gone into that lobby by mistake; but, being in the lobby, and having heard the Question put, the Speaker directed his vote to be added to the "Noes." In that case the misapprehension was discovered as early as it was by the hon. Baronet in the present instance. In this case
 32
 MR. SPEAKER : I must direct the attention of the hon. Member to the fact that moving the adjournment of the House will not give him an opportunity of referring to past debates.
 MR. GEORGE  said, it was not satisfactory that an important measure of this kind should be hurried through in the present state of the House—[there were not more than 20 Members present]. He could not help thinking that undue haste was displayed in pressing through these clauses.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he rose to second the Motion. He would not detain the House long as he did not presume to think for a moment that the Motion would be carried, but he thought thanks were due to the hon. Member for bringing the subject before the House, because at no distant period Gentlemen opposite would have an opportunity of experiencing those evils which his hon. Friend had so ably described. He thought the thanks of the House were due to his hon. Friend for having afforded to each of them an opportunity of ascertaining whether or not they had retrograded on the question of the Ballot. It was just as well, having reference to the day which was not far distant, that they should register their opinions upon such a question for the consideration of the British public. The usual objection to the Ballot was that it could not be carried out; but he would call attention to what took place on a former occasion. On a former occasion when there was a long debate on the question, an hon. Gentleman who had since become a Member of the Government—he meant the hon. Member for Pontefract—speaking for the first time in the House, described the working of the Ballot in Melbourne so as to convince many Gentlemen that if the system were adopted here it would be a great improvement on the present state of things. The hon. Member removed one of the chief objections urged against the Ballot by showing that at Melbourne a scrutiny could take place in as effective a manner as in any Committee-room of the House of Commons. An argument which was much in favour with the noble Lord at the head of the Government was that the Ballot was un-English; but if its tendency were to prevent intimidation, bribery, drunkenness, and other evils, then every man who wished well to his country ought to vote for the Motion of the hon. Gentleman, especially as a General Election was understood to be impending.
 MR. VANCE  seconded the Motion. He had objected from the beginning to the Bill being appointed for a morning sitting, and the result of that day's proceedings proved the correctness of his opinion. When he came into the House there was
 28
 MR. O'HAGAN (THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND)  said, he had listened to the extraordinary performance of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the University of Dublin with very considerable amazement. He had never doubted his hon. and learned Friend's powers; but here the hon. and learned Gentleman had occupied—he would with all due respect say abused—the patience of the Committee for two hours and a half with a speech which had about as much to do with the Motion as with the affairs of Kamschatka or the Great Mogul. Even the authority of the Chairman could not restrain his eloquence; for although he had given notice of a Motion which the Chairman told him he could not move, he had continued to speak upon it for an hour. The motive for his hon. and learned Friend's proceeding was apparent, and the proceeding was worthy of the motive; but he would put it to his hon. and learned Friend, whether such a course was worthy of his hon. and learned Friend's position? He, therefore, would not follow his hon. and learned Friend into the details upon which he had entered; but there were assertions—marvellous assertions, audacious assertions—in the address of his hon. and learned Friend which he could not allow to pass unnoticed. With regard to his position in reference to this Bill, it was a most simple one; he was
 29
 MR. O'HAGAN  said, he had been waiting there half an hour before the House was made. He might express his surprise that those hon. Members who had given notice of Amendments had not come down to move them. He had no desire to hurry through a single clause without the fullest consideration; but it was too bad that hon. Members who had given notice of their intention to move Amendments should fail to make their appearance to move them, and that the Government should then be accused of desiring to press the clauses through the Committee with undue haste. For his own part he was ready to spend any time in order that the Bill should be properly considered.
 MR. O'HAGAN (THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND)  observed that the Commissioners reported in favour of a chief clerk, and he could not adopt the recommendation of the hon. Baronet without sufficient reason being assigned.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : None whatever.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought that his hon. and learned Friend had not been quite accurately informed as to the circumstances of this case with reference to the intervention of the Government. He appeared to suppose that for a certain period the Commissioners referred to had received the balance-sheets of farmers made up from Michaelmas to Michaelmas, under the express authority of the Board of Inland Revenue. The law required that the accounts should be made up from April to April, and the Board of Inland Revenue had no power to alter or to sanction departures from that system. The administration, as the hon. and learned Gentleman knew, was in the hands of district Commissioners, and upon the point being raised, the Board of Inland Revenue directed their surveyors not to interfere or to make any objection to the proceedings of the Commissioners, limiting their intervention to that single direction. In the case of certain farmers the local Commissioners had accepted accounts made up from Michaelmas to Michaelmas as a basis of account for purposes of appeal; but a similar appeal having been made subsequently, the Commissioners felt it their duty to adhere to the letter of the law, and accordingly required the farmer to
 33
 MR. MASSEY  said, he understood that the hon. and learned Gentleman would conclude by a Motion to report Progress, with a view to an ulterior proceeding, and he was showing reasons why it was desirable that he should take this ulterior proceeding, and that to enable him to do so the House should resume.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN : Sir, I desire to mention to Mr. Speaker a question which has arisen in my own case at the close of the morning sitting of the House. A division took place at four o'clock, while the House was in Committee upon the Court of Chancery (Ireland) Bill, on the Question whether the Chairman should leave the Chair. I had intended to vote with the "Noes." At the time of taking the division, the Attorney General was named one of the Tellers, and an hon. Gentleman was named another of the Tellers who was not then in the House. I offered to act as Teller in his place, and accordingly remained here while the House was cleared in order to act as Teller for the "Noes." Just, however, as the House was clear, the hon. Member for Northampton consented to act as Teller, and I therefore retired — going however, by
 31
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, he would remind the hon. and learned Gentleman that it was not the duty of the Opposition to make a House, keep a House, and cheer the Minister. The attention of that hon. and learned Gentleman had been drawn to the fact that it was not desirable that this Bill should come on at a morning sitting, and it was proved that this was so by the fact that the Government was unable for so long a time
 30
 SIR GEORGE GREY,  in "reply, said, he adhered to the opinion which he had formerly expressed, that it was very desirable that reforms in the Royal Court of Jersey, recommended by the Commissioners, should be carried into effect by the Estates rather than by any intervention of Parliament. He would state the intentions of the Government on this subject when the Bill referred to came on for discussion.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether it has been taken into consideration that a Sailing Ship leaving Capo Coast six weeks or two months hence, and bound to the West Indies, will be obliged to adopt the "middle passage;" and, in that event, whether the effects of a protracted voyage in such a climate on Officers and Men already debilitated may not be attended by disastrous effects?
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether it is true that three young Naval Officers have been tried by Court Martial at Jamaica for insubordination, and have been sentenced, in addition to other punishment, to a long imprisonment in the common gaol at Kingston, Jamaica; and whether the Admiralty have confirmed that portion of the sentence?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to advise the appointment of a Royal Commission to consider the pay and allowances of Officers of the Royal Navy?
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  rose to order. There was a distinct Motion before the House; but the hon. and learned Gentleman, instead of speaking upon that Motion, was going into the details of the different clauses of the Bill. He apprehended that the hon. and learned Gentleman ought to speak upon the Motion, and not to pursue the extraordinary course which he was taking.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I assure the House that there are many circumstances and (pointing to the clock) a warning-hand which bid me to be brief;
 44 45 46
 MR. AYRTON  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  hoped that as the hon. Gentleman did not object to the principle of the Bill he would consent to its going into Committee. The present system of proxies enabled directors to do almost as they liked. A case occurred a few years ago, in which a Board of Directors carried a vote of £5,000 to an officer of the company by means of general proxies without the shareholders knowing anything about it until it was done. He proposed to amend the second clause by enacting that, instead of an adjournment for seven or fourteen days, that "when a poll is demanded the meeting shall he adjourned in the usual manner." He would suggest to the hon. and learned Gentleman to postpone the consideration of his objections until they got into Committee.
 MR. CRAUFURD  proposed an Amendment to enable the holder of the proxy to vote at the original or any adjourned meeting; but withdrew it, and proposed to omit the second paragraph of the clause.
 MAJOR HAMILTON  said, that one of the reasons why the people of Scotland did not care to have Bank of England notes forced upon them was that they held their own notes to be as good, if not better. When the Western Bank of Scotland failed, its notes were as good on the day of the failure as they were the day before. The people of Scotland do not care to have
 125
 MR. LOCKE : Sir, before you leave the chair, I wish to make one or two observations with regard to this Bill. It will be in the recollection of some Members of the House that the second reading took place a considerable time since, and the Bill has been postponed from time to time until at length we have arrived at the stage when the House is asked to go into Committee upon it. The reason why I am anxious to make some observations on the matter is this, that the state of opinion in the Island of Jersey has undergone a very great change since I first introduced the Bill to the notice of the House. The Bill, as I stated on a former occasion, is similar to the one which was introduced into this House in the year 1861. Indeed that Bill, which was introduced by Mr. Serjeant Pigott, was precisely the same as the Bill which is now before the House for its consideration in Committee. It was founded upon the Report of the Commission which sat in 1859 and 1860, and which was composed of Sir John Awdry, the right hon. the Earl of Devon and Richard Jebb, Esq. They were the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the civil laws of Jersey, and their Report, with appendix, was presented to both Houses of Parliament in the year 1860. Now, in the year 1861, Mr. Serjeant Pigott introduced his Bill into this House. The Government of that day, Sir George Cornewall Lewis being at the head of the Home Department, entirely approved of the provisions of the Bill; and, in point of fact, the Bill, as I have stated, was entirely founded upon the Report of the Commission. But Sir George Cornewall Lewis at that time stated that it was inexpedient for Mr. Serjeant Pigott to go on with the Bill, as the States of Jersey had not had a sufficient opportunity of considering the recommendations of the Commissioners, and he was anxious that they should be submitted to their consideration with a view that they might
 127 128 nombre inférieur 129 130 131 132 Hansard 133 "I proposed a change in the institutions of the Island. I proposed, with the concurrence of the majority of the States, to do away with the twelve Jurats, and replace them by two Judges, elected by the people, but that these two Judges must be qualified, as having been lawyers of long practice. That was the principal feature of the change." 134 Habeas Corpus 135
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, I stated yesterday in answer to a Question put to me, that I would to-day intimate the course which the Government thought ought to be taken in regard to this Bill. The House will recollect that upon the second reading I expressed my entire concurrence in the object which this Bill sought to attain—the reformation of the Royal Court of Jersey. I stated that the Report of the Royal Commission had shown that there are great defects in the administration of justice in Jersey, arising out of the constitution and forms of procedure in that Court, and that the Commissioners had pointed out those reforms which they thought essential to the due administration of justice in Jersey. But I said at the same time that so long as there was any hope that these reforms would be carried into effect by the States of Jersey themselves, it was inexpedient that Parliament should interfere. A Bill was brought in by the present Mr. Baron Pigott; but it was objected to on the ground that the Report of the Royal Commission had been so short a time before the States that it was desirable to give them ample time to consider the reforms which it pointed out. On that occasion the right of Parliament to interfere was most distinctly affirmed. There can be no doubt that Parliament can interfere in case these reforms cannot be carried into effect in any other manner. The correspondence which has been laid on the table since the Bill was introduced, will show how the matter at present stands. The States in their last communication have declined to entertain the questions referred to them by the Lieutenant Governor. They have done so on the ground that to proceed to take into consideration the suggestions of the Commission and the recommendations of the Lieutenant Governor while this Bill was pending, would imply that they are acting under the coercion which might be supposed to be placed upon them by this measure. In answer to that, I informed them that if it was really intended to take up this question, and that if this Bill was the only obstacle to an entering into the consideration of
 136 137
 MR. ROEBUCK  hoped his hon. and learned Friend would withdraw the Bill, but on the distinct understanding that it was the opinion of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State that that House had full right and power to interfere in the affairs of Jersey, and that if something was not done by the States before the beginning of next Session he would, should he be in office, be prepared to lay on the table a Bill for reforming the Royal Court.
 MR. PAULL : I have undertaken to make the Motion of my hon. and learned Friend the Member for East Gloucester shire (Mr. Rolt) who is unable to be present, and the reason why he intended to submit that Motion was that the States of Jersey are entirely misrepresented in this matter. The statement which was made by my hon. and learned Friend opposite (Mr. Locke) as to the appointment of the Commission, and the proceedings which took place under that Commission, is perfectly correct. The States are quite willing to consider these recommendations, but they are not willing that the Royal Court, which has existed for so many hundred years, should be abolished entirely in the way which it is now proposed to do. They protest against a question of this kind being taken up by any private Member of Parliament. They find that, although the Royal Commission was issued at the recommendation of the Government, and that these Commissioners have visited the Islands, and have received information from those most competent to judge, the question has not been taken up by Government as might reasonably have been expected, and as I think the House will say they ought to have done. If pressure is indirectly to be brought on the Island of Jersey—if the Government are content to leave a measure which they are disposed to support in the hands of a private Member—if, under these circumstances, the authorities of the Island, who ought to be represented in this House by the Government, are left to be bandied about the lobby, to take up their position in some hotel and to issue circulars to endeavour to secure the attention of Members of Parliament
 138 139
 MR. AYRTON  urged that the calculations should be carried to the utmost possible point of scientific accuracy. Mr. Whitworth asserted that by a contrivance of his invention a measurement could be
 109
 MR. BLACK : Sir, we are certainly greatly indebted for the sympathy and compassion which the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Hubbard) has displayed towards poor Scotland. He states that we are suffering under such a monopoly that, even supposing he were to bring gold into the country, it would be impossible for him to obtain as many notes in exchange for it as would be required. Now, I can assure the hon. Gentleman that if he will only bring proper security, or
 123 124
 MR. FINLAY  said, that in proposing that the Bill be read a second time that day three months, he would state in a very few words the reasons which had led him to take that course. The object of the Bill was to make the notes of the Bank of England a legal tender in Scotland, with especial powers to the Bank to establish branch establishments in Edinburgh and Glasgow. Now there was no law to prevent the people of Scotland from accepting the notes of the Bank of England at pre-
 112 113
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, the restriction which at present existed was simply this—at present any one who pleased might make use of the system, but it was not recognized by any Act of Parliament, and therefore there was risk of litigation in any contracts based upon it. The present Bill simply legalized transactions which might be voluntarily entered into. With regard to the observation of the hon. and learned Member for Buckingham (Mr. Hubbard), that the labourers were accustomed to the present system, he would only observe that it was the most complicated system in the whole world, differing, as it did, in different parts of the country. Many persons who were carrying on business on a large scale had adopted the metric system, and wished to have it legalized. The hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck) seemed to prefer a compulsory to a permissive system. He (Mr. Adderley) had no doubt that the merits of the system would very soon bring it into general operation; but he certainly was not prepared to make its adoption compulsory on everybody.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he had not heard a word in that discussion to show that there would be any impropriety in extending to Scotland and Ireland the privilege which England had enjoyed for the last thirty years.
 MR. GOSCHEN  thought, that simple as might be the proposal to establish Bank of England notes as a legal tender in Scotland, the House ought to be very careful before adopting it. The object of the Bill was to compel the people of Scotland to take a description of notes which it was said they did not want; and it appeared that those who took them would be obliged to incur the expense of sending them up to London to be exchanged for gold.
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, the question raised by the Bill was not an abstract but a practical one. The simple proposition was that Bank of England notes should be made a legal tender in a country where it might fairly be said there was no forced circulation except bullion. There was an opposition to the Bill on the part of twelve Scotch banks which objected to having their monopoly broken in upon; but the general mercantile community of Scotland desired to have some such measure as that passed; and if the hon. and gallant Gentleman pressed his Motion to a division he should certainly vote with him. It was said that it would be a hardship to make people in Scotland accept these notes, and that it would be impossible for the £5 Bank of England notes to circulate side by side with the £1 notes of Scotland; but how, he asked, could the one description of notes displace the other?
 MR. BUTT  said, the very precedents to which the hon. and learned Gentleman had referred would, if he had read them completely, have shown him that there was no doubt about the authority of the House in this matter. The last precedent was that of the 27th of March, 1827—the General Turnpike Bill. What occurred with reference to that Bill no doubt took place upon an order for taking into further consideration the Report from a Committee of the Whole House, but the House then resolved to re-commit the Bill, and the Committee to which it was re-committed was in the same position as an ordinary Committee, What followed was thus entered on the Journals:—"The House accordingly resolved itself into the Committee, but after some time spent therein Mr. Speaker resumed the Chair." The meaning of that was that there was no Report. The proceedings of Committees were not then entered upon the Journals when there was no Report, but in the "Minutes and Votes" of that day the entry was as follows:—"General Turnpike Act Amendment Bill—Report for the considered Bill re-committed; considered in Committee; No Report"—which, with the exception that in this instance there was a division, was exactly the way in which what had occurred with regard to this Bill was recorded. Therefore it was clear, that on the 27th of March, 1827, when the Turnpike Bill was re-committed, the Chairman left the Chair without making a Report, and the Bill was at an end unless something took place. What else was done then? On the 9th of April an order was made in the terms which the Attorney General had adopted upon this occasion—"That this House will, upon Wednesday next, resolve itself into a Committee of the Whole House, to consider further of a Bill to amend the Acts relating to Turnpike Roads in England." The other precedent was that of the Paupers Removal Bill in 1815. In that case precisely the same entry was made in the Journals—"After continuing some time on the Committee, the Speaker resumed the Chair;" and on the 20th of June, the House set the Bill up again by order, precisely as his right hon. Friend
 98
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that the highest authority in the House was the Speaker, who had not yet pronounced upon this Question. It was true that it was at first his intention to move that the Chairman should report Progress; but Members who were well acquainted with the forms of the House told him that the Motion which he made deliberately, "That the Chairman do leave the Chair," was analogous to the Motion of the "Previous Question" in the Whole House, the adoption of which prevented the revival of the subject during the same Session. At any rate, whether it was possible or not, it was not usual. When a matter had been discussed and a vote taken, it was the practice of the House to have nothing more to do with it during that Session. Although the hon. Member for Youghal (Mr. Butt) had displayed much ingenuity, he had not produced a precedent of a case in which a hostile vote had been taken upon a division obliging the Chairman to leave the
 99
 MR. WHITESIDE  inquired whether the Question before the House would be whether the Bill should be resumed?
 MR. SPEAKER : It would be in the power of the right hon. Gentleman to raise the Question on the Motion that the Speaker do leave the Chair.
 MR. SPEAKER : No doubt it will be quite competent to any Member to move that the House resolve itself into Committee on the Bill on that day three months.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member for Mallow (Mr. Longfield) not having favoured me with notice that he intended to raise this Question, I have been obliged to refer to the precedents since I came into the House. The House will be aware that the Committee have no power to extinguish a Bill. A Bill is referred to a Committee that it may be considered and amended; but the Committee have no power to put an end to a Bill. That power the House retains to itself. On many occasions, some of which have been quoted by the hon. Member for Mallow, the Committee has ordered the Chairman to leave the Chair, and this having been taken as an indication that the Bill is not favourably regarded by the Committee, it has not been revived by its author in the House. But it is beyond the province of the Committee arbitrarily to take a
 100 101
 MR. GEORGE  said, that in the case of the General Turnpike Bill it was plain, from the short notice in the Journals of the House, that there could have been no division, as in the case of the Bill in question, where the Chairman had been moved out of the Chair. No one disputed that where there had been a Report, a Bill would re-appear on the Notice Paper, but he contended that when the Chairman of the Committee had been voted out of the Chair by a hostile majority, the House had never interfered. There was, therefore, he submitted, no precedent to justify the interposition of the House in the present case.
 MR. HUBBARD  said, the right hon. Gentleman had not alluded to the circumstances which fully justified the hon. and gallant Member for Wakefield in introducing this subject to the notice of the House—namely, that, notwithstanding the very great progress in Scotland in wealth, there had been no new banks established; while in England they had multiplied to an extent hitherto unknown and unprecedented. In point of fact, in Scotland there had been an absolute diminution in the number of those institutions. Was it right that the banking facilities afforded in Scotland should be confined to the number of existing banks, which had among themselves an absolute monopoly? It was as a free trader opposed to monopoly that he joined in asking for Scotland the same avenues for the use of capital which existed in England. The hon. and gallant Member did not ask to share with the existing institutions the power of issue they now possess—that would be properly refused by the Government—but he asked simply for the power of existence. He tells you that he could not open a bank in Scotland without having some means of currency. He must use either gold or notes. If he issues gold, according to the hon. Baronet (Sir Edward Colebrooke) the people of Scotland hate sovereigns to such an extent that they will not take them. Then how was the hon. and gallant Member to work his bank? He must issue notes. And whose notes is he to issue? They must be the notes of the existing banks—of his own rivals, in fact; and every time he undertakes a commercial transaction he must advertise his rivals in trade. The hon. and gallant Member simply asked that a new banking establishment should be released from the liability of advertising its rivals, and should be enabled to supply notes of the Bank of England. He asked no more than that he should be provided with Bank of England notes. At present, Bank of England notes in Scotland were not a legal tender; but Parliament can make them so. The objection which his hon. Friend the present Governor of the Bank of England (Mr. Hodgson) entertained to that course was that by such an issue the
 121
 MR. HUBBARD  thought the explanation of the hon. Gentleman proved that there was no necessity for the clauses which he proposed to substitute for those which had been objected to, because certain operations could now be performed by agreement against which there was no legal objection. If there were any legal restraints on private
 105
 MR. HUBBARD  said, that what the Bank of England did, was not to decimalize the pound troy, but to give a decimal expression to the divisions of the ounce. If the object of the clause was nothing more than to legalize voluntary arrangements between individuals for the use of the metric system, he would not object to it. But he wished to ask the right hon. President of the Board of Trade, whether people would be at liberty to make their entries at the Custom House in decimal expressions.
 MR. LOCKE  said, that the present Act regulating weights and measures rendered it illegal to enter into any contract for the sale of goods by any other than the Imperial weights and measures; but a proviso had been introduced into the section, regulating sales by measure which legalized sales by measures other than local and customary measures, which had the effect of neutralizing that section of the Act. Then, again, the section which regulated sales by the Imperial weights contained a proviso at the end of the section, that nothing therein contained should prevent a sale by any multiple of a pound. In
 106 107
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he had no doubt that the proposed system would be an improvement upon the old one, but he did not like the idea of its being a permissive measure. He wished to know if the President of the Board of Trade approved of a permissive Bill on such a subject. If county A continued the old system, and county B adopted the new one, very great confusion would probably arise.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that two questions were involved—one the question of form, which had just been decided by the Speaker; and the other, whether the House would think fit to revive the Committee, and that would come before the House when the right hon. Gentleman left the Chair. The Speaker having decided the question of form, the House could not be taken by surprise, and it would be competent to any hon. Member to move that the House go into Committtee on the Bill that day three months.
 MR. VANCE  thought it would be for the convenience of the House that notice should be given for a future day, so that Members might be aware of the course to be taken.
 MR. K. HODGSON  thought that the question as regarded the circulation of the notes of the Bank of England in Scotland could only be treated as a great public question. He did not see how it would be possible to carry out this Bill, making the Bank of England notes a legal tender in Scotland without providing some place in Scotland where Bank of England notes could be exchanged, as they were done at the Bank of England and its branches. Now, that would be attended with considerable expense. The system of banking in Scotland and the system of banking in England were so widely different that it would be scarcely possible for the Bank of England to carry on banking business in Scotland in order to compensate them for the expense that this new issuing department would cause. Although it might be right that measures dealing with the circulation in Scotland and Ireland should be introduced, still he thought that this must form part of a great measure, which must deal with the whole banking system in England, Ireland, and Scotland, and that it would be quite impossible to consider the case of Scotland alone. He thought a great deal of weight ought to be attached to the objection that the Bank of England had no lower notes than £5, and that if it were to establish branch banks doing business in Edinburgh or Glasgow they would have to carry on their business in gold and in £5 notes, and that if they were to use £1 notes they could only do so through the issues of the other banks. That would be a great anomaly; and, under all the circumstances, he thought his hon. and gallant Friend would do well not to press the Bill on this occasion. It was part of a great measure; by itself it could not be worked to any great advantage, and he thought his hon. and gallant Friend would best consult the objects he had in view by withdrawing his Bill.
 MR. DALGLISH  said, he would be one of the last men to oppose any real improvement in the banking system of Scotland, but he protested against this constant meddling on the part of private Members
 116
 MR. LONGFIELD  opposed the Motion. It did not appear from the references to the Journals in the work to which the right hon. Gentleman had alluded, and which was undoubtedly a work of the highest authority, that there had been a single case in which, after the Chairman had been moved from the Chair on a division taken, a Bill had been revived during the same Session. The passage in  May's Law and Practice of Parliament, "Sometimes, however, the proceedings of a Committee on a Bill are brought abruptly to a close, by an order 'that the Chairman do now leave the Chair;' in which case the Chairman, being without instructions from the Committee,
 96 Commons' Journals, Commons' Journals, ibid., ibid., ibid., Commons' Journals, Commons' Journals, 97
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he would consider the point raised by the hon. and learned Gentleman.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that in passing the measure of last Session the House undoubtedly gave its sanction to the introduction of the metric system into this country. His hon. Friend the Member for Dumfries had, however, agreed not to press the compulsory Bill, and to substitute a permissive one. He gave his vote for the second reading of the new Bill, on the understanding that he was not committed to all its provisions; but the clauses which his hon. Friend had now put on the papers exactly met his views on the subject. The first of the new clauses was simply to the effect that if a
 108
 MR. O'HAGAN (THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND)  said, that what he had done he had done upon the advice of the highest authority, and having resolved to take that course, he had communicated with the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin, and with the hon. Member for Mallow.
 MR. O'HAGAN,  referring to the circumstance of the abrupt termination of the proceedings in Committee upon this Bill on the preceding day, moved that
 "This House will, on Thursday next, resolve itself into a Committee of the Whole House to consider further of the progress of the Court of Chancery (Ireland) Bill."
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  reminded the hon. Member for Buckingham that, when he, the hon. Member for Buckingham, and himself were governors together of the Bank of England, it had been found convenient to divide the pound troy decimally instead of, as formerly, into 5,760 grains. The hon. Member approved that change, but it was necessary to apply for an Act of Parliament, or the contracts made in pursuance of that alteration would have been illegal. The present Bill would give to every person in the country the same benefit as the Bank of England derived from their Act of Parliament. That, he thought, was an answer to his hon. Friend's objection.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, that as the hon. and gallant Gentleman had been good enough to show him this Bill, and to ask him if he saw any objection to it as connected with the Bank of England, and having stated that he saw no objection to Bank of England notes being made a legal tender in Scotland, he wished to state the reasons why he should vote for the Amendment. This Bill appeared to him to involve a new principle of legislation in banking, and he did not think that they were prepared to go into so wide a question at the present time. It was necessary to consider well before they arrived at the conclusion that Bank of England notes should be made a legal tender in Scotland. His hon. and gallant Friend complained, as he understood him, of a want of paper circulation in Scotland; but he begged to remind him that the banks in Scotland could issue their own notes provided they had gold to meet them in their banks. The Banks of Scotland could issue any quantity in exchange for gold. Why did they not do so? Because the expense was so great that it did not pay them to do so. It was an expensive operation to the Bank of England to issue notes; and the Scotch banks found that it was not profitable to do so. He thought, therefore, that it was too bad to ask the
 117
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I think the hon. and gallant Gentleman (Sir John Hay) must feel from the discussion that has taken place that it is not agreeable to the House to proceed further with this Bill. I confess I am of opinion that there are various reasons why we are not in a position to do so. In the first place, a Bill of this sort cannot be proceeded with without concert with the Bank of England. It is an extraordinary proposal to give powers to the Bank of England without knowing that the Bank of England is prepared to exercise those powers; and to entail upon the Bank of England responsibilities of considerable importance without having obtained its assent beforehand. It is impossible to consider the question of making Bank of England notes a legal tender in Scotland apart from the question of the establishment of branches of the Bank of England in Scotland. We cannot consider that question without entering into an inquiry on the subject touched upon by my hon. Friend the Member for Argyleshire, as to the manner in which the Bank of England is to conduct not only its issuing business, but its banking business in Scotland. This is a consideration which I do not think falls within the view of the hon. and gallant Member. No doubt he contemplates the establishment of branches by the Bank of England, but he knows nothing of the willingness of the Bank of England to establish these branches. He is providing for matters in which he must have the assent of the Bank of England, without knowing that he will have the co-operation of that important body. The hon. and gallant Member seems to think that Scotland and Ireland, in common with England, guarantee the circulation of the Bank of England to the extent of, at all events, £14,000,000. That is an erroneous supposition altogether. There is no guarantee for the circulation of the Bank of England, or any part of it, by the State. The state of the case is this: that the Bank of England has lent the State £11,000,000, which stands in the form of a debt to that institution; and it has besides £3,000,000 invested in the public securities The State is, therefore, a creditor to the Bank to the extent of £14,000,000; but surely the fact that the
 118 119 120
 MR. BAXTER  thought the hon. and gallant Member opposite would do well to rest satisfied with the discussion that had taken place, which had been very much in favour of the principle of his Bill. The speech of the hon. Member for Edinburgh (Mr. Black) would give the impression that the Scotch system of banking was perfect, and could not possibly be altered for the better; but every one who was well acquainted with the subject was perfectly aware that the law relating to it was extremely defective, and must sooner or later be amended. But as the Chancellor of the Exchequer had held out the prospect that probably next Session there would be a revision of the whole system, and had guarded himself against expressing an opinion hostile to the principle of the present Bill, it was not advisable to press the matter any further on that occasion.
 MR. W. EWART  then proposed the following clause in lieu of it:—
 "Notwithstanding anything contained in any Act of Parliament to the contrary, no contract or dealing shall be deemed to be invalid or open to objection on the ground that the weights or measures expressed or referred to in such contract or dealing are weights or measures of the metric system."
 MR. W. EWART  said, that having consulted the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, certain Amendments had been agreed to which removed the objections entertained by certain hon. Gentlemen, and he believed those Amendments were of such a nature as to induce the House to inaugurate the metric system, which he hoped would soon be adopted as the universal practice of the country. It had been adopted in many other countries with the greatest possible advantage, and no desire whatever had been manifested for a return to the old systems. The schedules to the Bill had been carefully revised by the most competent authorities, and he believed they would be found quite satisfactory.
 MR. W. EWART  said, he should move that the clause be struck out, in order to insert an amended clause in its place.
 MR. W. EWART  observed, that at the present time the metric system was voluntarily used in many trades and manufactures. It was in an active state, and the object of this Bill was to promote its extension, and to render permissive that which was not now strictly legal.
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  said, he was sorry to have to oppose his hon. and gallant Friend, but the fact was that a great number of his constituents were excessively suspicious of the English sovereign, and they certainly would strongly object to have Bank of England notes forced upon them, instead of their own £1. He submitted that the people of Scotland should be allowed, as far as possible, to manage their own affairs; and he hoped that on the present occasion the Scotch Members would not be overridden by the tyranny of an English majority. Scotland was prepared to stand by its £1 notes, and there was no reason in the world why it should be obliged to accept English paper.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  observed, that having taken a great interest in the subject, he had given notice of a Motion for the introduction of a Bill to render bank notes a legal tender in Ireland, as the hon. and gallant Member opposite proposed to do in regard to Scotland. He was disappointed at the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer), because he seemed to hold out no hopes that the principle on which this Bill was based would be accepted in another Session. Still he thought that this discussion would not be without some good, as it would tend to facilitate the introduction of some general scheme of banking whenever the Chancellor of the Exchequer should turn his attention to the subject. He did not think that the real question before the House was a question of currency at all. It did not in the slightest degree affect the issue of £1 notes. It would be just as well to say
 122
 SIR JOHN HAY  believed that it would be unwise, after the appeals which had been made to him, and considering the period of the Session, if he were now to go to a division. At the same time he thought that the discussion which had taken place, and the interest displayed in the subject, fully justified him in introducing the question to the notice of the House. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had said that in his opinion it was desirable that any change should be made step by step. He sincerely trusted that the discussion which had now taken place would be one step towards the change, which the majority of the people of Scotland desired to see. He hoped that early next Session the Chancellor of the Exchequer would bring in a Bill to give to Scotland and other parts of the United Kingdom those privileges in connection with banking of
 126
 SIR JOHN HAY : Sir, in rising to move the second reading of this Bill I wish to say a few words in explanation, because when the Bill was introduced there was no opportunity of explaining fully the object it has in view. It cannot be said that legislation is unnecessary, because in the present Session two Bills have already been introduced to the notice of this House—one by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, which he withdrew with a view at some future time to legislate more largely and comprehensively on the subject. The other Bill was introduced by three Members of this House, representing three of the large commercial constituencies of Scotland; and that measure was also withdrawn on the understanding that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would at an early period consider the whole subject, and bring in a comprehensive measure to meet the wants of Scotland in this particular. It must be known to this House that Scotland differs from England, there being no legal tender there except gold. In England, to avoid expense, the Bank of England is authorized to issue notes which are convertible into gold when presented at their establishments. Now, for the solvency of the
 110 111
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  did not think that any great danger would be likely to arise from making Bank of England notes a legal tender in Scotland; nor did he believe that the anomaly which it would introduce would be greater than that which now existed—that £1 notes were allowed on one side of the Tweed and were not allowed on the other. But he thought there would be some difficulty in the way of introducing such a measure as that now proposed. When his hon. and gallant Friend (Sir John Hay) brought forward his former Bill, he (Sir Edward Colebrooke) gave him his support, considering that the present system of banking in Scotland laboured under a defect which was not foreseen when the Bank Act of 1845 was passed, which it was for the Legislature to consider, and the duty of the Government to deal with. He agreed with his hon. and gallant Friend that they should use every effort to break down the monopoly which now existed, and to restore the system to something like the condition in which it existed before these unwise restrictions were placed upon it. The objections which had been taken were not so much to the currency as to the question of banking. The principle of the late Sir Robert Peel was to place restrictions upon the currency, but to leave banking perfectly free. In dealing with the question, however, Parliament acted on different principles with regard to Scotland and England. The effect of Sir Robert Peel's measures had been to lead to a large extension of the banking system in England, especially in London, but it had acted in an opposite direction in regard to Scotland. He could not say that any great evils had arisen from the restrictions now existing; but he could not regard the subject without alarm when he saw that the present banking system was like a Tontine proprietorship, and that on the failure or absorption of one of the banks the currency was taken up by another, which extended its branches to the different parts of the country. There was no doubt that, in the public opinion of the country, there practically existed an impediment in the way of the establishment of new banks. This system could not be safe or sound, and it was one which the Government should attempt to remedy. But the question was—Would the Bill before the House act in that direction? He was for free trade in banking; but he felt some alarm lest, if they allowed the Bank of
 115
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : Will my hon. Friend give notice of his Question?
 GENERAL PEEL : The noble Lord has not answered the latter part of my Question. What was the answer from the Admiralty?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : The Admiralty replied immediately by letter through the Horse Guards, asking what number of Troops would have to be conveyed. The letter from the War Office stated that it had been determined to remove a considerable portion of the force from the Gold Coast, and requested that the requisite quantity of freight might be taken up for their removal.
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he would bog to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, From what source the expense of the reference to the Admiralty Court in the case of Banda and Kirwee Booty is to be defrayed?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON,  in reply, said, that there were two Engineer Officers at present employed in the South Kensington Museum, and a third was about to enter on his duties there. There were also twelve Sappers and Miners usually employed in superintending the lighting and other arrangements, and in learning the arts of photography and drawing. These officers were not, however, borne upon the Estimates of the War Department, but were entirely connected with the Museum. For a detailed explanation of their duties he must refer the noble Lord to one of his right hon. Friends to whose Department they were attached.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  replied that the Rifle Range in question had been examined, as all Ranges were, by an Officer, who reported satisfactorily on it, and stated it was safe. The Railway Company also were consulted as to the arrangement prepared for the safety of the trains, and no objection had been raised until within a very few days ago, when Mr. Richards called the attention of the War Department to the alleged danger to the railway in question. It was immediately arranged that one of the Assistant Inspectors of Volunteers should proceed to re-inspect the Range. He would have gone down that day, but Mr. Richards could not have met him, but he would go down to-morrow and meet Mr. Richards and several Volunteer Officers, and inspect the Butt.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON,  in reply, said, the quantity of gunpowder at present stored at Marchwood was 50,000 tons. It was not stored in one magazine, but in seven distinct magazines, and the greatest quantity in any one of them was 28,000 barrels. Before the hon. Member gave notice of this question, inconsequence of some apprehension that existed in the minds of the people of Southampton, a Report was called for from Colonel Gordon, commanding the Engineers, the principal officer of artillery, and the storekeeper, with regard to the safety of the magazine, and they stated that they had examined it very minutely, and they were of opinion there was no place in which powder might be stored with greater safety than at Marchwood. It was a mile and a half from Southampton, in a district not very densely populated. There were no houses near it except those occupied by government officials. The most stringent regulations were in force; they were far more strict than those applying to private magazines; and from the position of the magazines and the excellent manner in which they were managed, he thought that there was no reason to apprehend any danger.
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, in reference to his statement that the Troops landed from the  Megæra,
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON,  in reply, said, the Troops which landed from the  Megæra 153
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, The date and terms of any Requisition from the War Office to the Admiralty for transports to remove the Troops from the Gold Coast; and whether such Requisition was marked "pressing" and "immediate," and what was the answer to it?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON,  in reply, said, it would be recollected that the Secretary of State for the Colonies on the 20th of May made a statement to the House respecting the arrangements made for the withdrawal of the Troops from the Gold Coast. On the following day all the arrangements respecting the withdrawal were made between his right hon. Friend (Mr. Cardwell) and the Secretary of State for War. On the same day letters wire written from the War Office to the Admiralty and the Horse Guards informing them of the determination that had been come to. Both those letters were marked "pressing" and "immediate."
 MR. PEEL  said, in reply, that the recommendation was only one of several made by the Committee. They also recommended that the forests should be enclosed, and the forestal rights of the Crown sold. Various reasons had prevented the recommendation from being carried out, but the general subject was receiving the attention of the Treasury.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON,  in reply, said, the experimental establishment at Shoeburyness was almost entirely engaged in the trial of the Armstrong and
 158
 CAPTAIN TALBOT  said, before putting the Question of which he had given notice, he wished, by way of explanation, to state he had lately received a letter, written by an eminent Member of Council. ["Order!" "Question!"] Well, his Question was, To ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies whether the Government have received a letter, dated the 10th of June, from the Chamber of Commerce of Malta to His Excellency the Governor of Malta, expressing their hopes "that His Excellency the Governor will be pleased to direct the necessary steps to be taken in order to obtain from Her Majesty's Government the abandonment of the contemplated Dock at the Marsa, in view of the very serious inconvenience to which it will subject the Mercantile Marine after it shall have been extended from the French Creek;" whether he is aware that this letter was decided on in a very full meeting of the Chamber of Commerce, composed of the principal Merchants of Malta, and that the letter contains a request that it may be forwarded to the Home Government; and whether there will be any objection on the part of Her Majesty's Government to lay this letter upon the table of the House?
 CAPTAIN TALBOT  said, he would now beg to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, whether the report is true that the works of the proposed new Dock at Malta are being carried on with great activity, although the Vote for that work has not yet been sanctioned by Parliament, and the question is now under the consideration of the Committee sitting upon Docks and Basins.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that the Pension Warrant did not sanction the issue of the same pension to the relatives of Officers who had died of disease as to the relatives of those who had fallen in action. With reference to the latter part of the Question the relatives of Captain (not Major) Merrick would not receive the price of his commission, because the Warrant also laid it down that the purchase money should be returned in the case of Officers who had been killed in action, or had died of their wounds within six months; but, as he stated the other night, Captain Merrick landed from the  Megæra
 LORD STANLEY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether it is true that the  Gladiator
 THE O'CONOR DON  said, he trusted it would be unnecessary for him to remind the House of the condition in which the Question stood. He regretted not to see the hon. and learned Member fur Belfast (Sir Hugh Cairns) in his place, because having proposed a Question, he thought that he ought to have been present when it was called on. He (the O'Conor Don) did not propose to enter into the general subject of national education in Ireland. There was only one particular phase of the Question to which he would endeavour to confine his observations. At the outset he found a difficulty in understanding the object of the Resolution proposed by the hon. and learned Member. The Motion was—
 "That in the opinion of this House the rules sanctioned by the Commissioners of National Education in Ireland on the 21st day of November, 1863, are, so far as regards their operation on the aid afforded to convent and monastic schools, at variance with the principles of the system of National Education." 178 179 180 s. d. 181 s. s. s. d. s. s. s. s. d.
 THE O'CONOR DON  resumed: He would, therefore, ask the House, whether it was prepared to condemn schools which gave education at a cheap rate, and which the people of the country favoured from religious motives? The right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin objected to the convent and monastic schools because they had a religious tendency,
 182
 THE O'CONOR DON : I never meant to imply that the hon, and learned Member for Belfast meant to attack convent schools, except so far as Mr. Sheridan's Report was concerned. I, however, hold that his Resolution in effect attacks all convent schools.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, there was no objection, if the noble Lord wished to move for it, to produce the Correspondence; but if the House would allow him he would read a very short statement which would explain what had occurred—
 "The  Aurora, Gladiator, Geyser Aurora, Gladiator, Geyser, Aurora Gladiator, Geyser, Gladiator Devastation, Gladiator, 162 The Times
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : It is a personal explanation—not that my personal character is in the least involved in it.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : It is so far a personal explanation that I stated to the House the reasons which induced the Government to send troops from Cape Coast to the West Indies under particular circumstances, and I wish to refer to the way in which my statement was contradicted by the hon. and gallant Member—[ Cries of in the midst of which the noble Lord resumed his seat.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  replied that immediately after he announced in the House that the Vote for the proposed Dock at Malta would not be proceeded with, a telegram was sent to the Admiral on the station—namely, on the 5th of May last—to the effect that while the Question was under the consideration of the Select Committee, the works of the Marsa Dock were to be suspended.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : In answer, Sir, to the Question of the hon. and gallant Member, I have to state that the Admiralty have considered, as I suppose everybody else has done, the report of the action which took place last Sunday between the  Kearsarge Alabama, Research. Research. Research. Research Alabama, Alabama Research Royal Sovereign, 157 Prince Albert, Royal Sovereign,
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  stated, in reply, that it was very objectionable to lay on the table Reports of Officers to the heads of Departments. Therefore he could not agree to lay upon the table the Reports to which the hon. Baronet had referred; but if the hon. Baronet chose to move for them upon a future occasion, he (Lord C. Paget) would be ready to state his reasons for not agreeing to the Motion.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of
 151
 MR. AYRTON,  in rising to move the Amendment of which he had given notice, said, the Bill ought to be treated as a private measure because its object was to gain a private advantage for the corporation of London. In principle there was really no difference between the Bill before the House and a Bill promoted by the London and North Western Railway Company, or any other trading association. Let the House look at the manner in which it was introduced. Bills levying duties ought to be founded upon a Resolution previously passed in Committee of the whole House. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had brought
 167 168
 MR. AYRTON  said, that after the decision from the Chair, he had no option but to submit to the proposal of the Government, but he would suggest that the Bill should be committed  pro formâ
 MR. AYRTON  said, that it was at the time that the corporation appointed a Committee of Secrecy to raise money to pay their debts, which Committee forthwith embarked in transactions which led to the painful scene that occurred in that House when, some hon. Member having asked Mr. Speaker a question with respect to the corporation funds, he left the chair and never appeared again. From that time till 1834 the corporation did very much as they liked, for there were then no Members for the Tower Hamlets. The Royal Commission of 1854 mentioned this claim, as the hon. Member for the City had stated, but they expressed their opinion that the duty ought to cease; and in 1856 a Bill was introduced by the noble Lord (Lord Palmerston), the right hon. Baronet(Sir George Grey) and the then Attorney General, to abolish it. As the present Home Secretary said on one occasion, the obstructive dining power of the corporation was such that it was almost impossible to proceed with a Bill against them, and that measure was withdrawn. In 1858 another Bill was brought in, which also proposed to abolish this tax. That Bill was referred to a Select Committee. The corporation were heard by counsel before the Committee. [Mr. CRAWFORD: Upon one clause only.] The corporation had an opportunity of putting anything before the Committee, which in the end declared that these duties should end in ten years or sooner. It was too late, however, to carry a Bill in that Session of Parliament. In the following year the subject was again brought before a Committee, of which the then Lord Mayor was a Member, and they reported that they saw no reason to doubt the correctness of the conclusions arrived at by the former Committee. He thought he
 169 170 d. s. d. s. 171
 MR. BLACK  said, that in times past
 183 184
 MR. LEFROY  said, he regretted that the hon. and learned Gentleman had introduced into the debate a tone which hitherto had been entirely strange to it. He did not think that his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Belfast (Sir Hugh Cairns), in the able and powerful speech which he made on the question, ever intended to make the attack attributed to him by the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just spoken. The argument of the hon. Member for the King's County in support of his Amendment was, that the rules of the Board had been changed to meet the views of the Presbyterians, although their schools remained in connection with the Board. The foundation upon which his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Belfast rested his Motion was that the rules relating to convent schools had been a breaking in upon the original system of National Education. The concession to convent schools showed how much the original system had been changed. His objection was that the system was thus made denominational, and that the change tended to give convent schools the command of the education of the country. He (Mr. Lefroy) honestly avowed that he felt considerable difficulty in refusing to support the general Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for King's County, while he was prepared to support the particular Motion of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Belfast; but his hon. and learned Friend had supported his
 219
 MR. A. RUSSELL  seconded the Motion.
 MR. LAYARD,  in reply, said, he expected by every mail to hear of the release of Mr. M'Hugh, and he hoped he might be able to lay it on the table to-morrow.
 MR. DISRAELI : I conclude from what the noble Lord says, that the documents he proposes to lay upon the table will be in the hands of Members on Tuesday.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I would take this opportunity of asking the noble Viscount the First Minister of the Crown, Whether he has any communication to make to the House with respect to the proceedings of the Conference yesterday?
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I rise to order. I am sure the House will give permission to the noble Lord to make any statement which he may think necessary for the advantage of the public service, or in vindication of his own conduct, but it can only be made on that understanding. The noble Lord is now taking a highly irregular course.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, the answer of the right hon. Gentleman was perfectly satisfactory.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether it is true that an order addressed to bankers or other persons for any payment of money, whether as dividend or otherwise, and which hitherto has been exempt from Stamp Duty, as being neither a Letter nor a Power of Attorney, is, by a new construction put by the Commissioners of Inland Revenue on the Act of the present Session, to be made liable to the Duty of Five Shillings, or any other Duties charged on Letters or Powers of Attorney; and, if so, whether such new construction will not be a great hardship on individuals, and an interference with established usage?
 MR. CARDWELL,  in reply, said, he had not received the letter alluded to by the hon. and gallant Member, but as soon as it arrived he would be happy to lay it on the table.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, in reply, that the first part of the Report for 1863 was almost ready to be delivered, and the second part was in the hands of the printer.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, that he was sorry that an English Member interposing in an Irish debate should be thought out of place. ["No, no!"] He should not detain the House long, but he thought it right to reply at once to the speech of the right hon. Baronet, the conclusion of which was so entirely inconsistent with its commencement. The right
 208 "The attention of the Irish Government has been drawn to certain contemplated changes in the fundamental rules of the system of National
 209
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : Four Commissioners told the right hon. Gentleman they had done so or were about to do so—[Sir HUGH CAIRNS: Had done, three months before]—and informed the right hon. Gentleman against what points these protests were levelled. The right hon. Gentleman thereupon wrote to the resident Commissioners, and from the Commissioners received a reply denying that a change in any fundamental principle of the system would be affected by the new rule, should it be carried into operation, or could have been contemplated by the Commissioners when they framed the proposed regulation, Until that evening it had always been supposed that the right hon. Gentleman objected, in the spirit of his letter, to the mode in which the rules had been dealt with; but now he found fault with the hon. Member for the King's County for having, as he said, blamed the Commissioners. Why, who began the blame? The right hon. Gentleman himself. Of the Commissioners some had protested against the acts of their colleagues; the Bishop of Derry—according to the right hon. Gentleman, one of the oldest friends of the system—declared that the fundamental rules had been altered. The right hon. Gentleman himself showed that the schools had been changed practically into denominational schools, and therefore it was idle to say that the system had not been departed from. It was the inevitable tendency of systems of education to fall into the hands of persons zealous as to religious matters. Except in the model schools they had always found great difficulty in carrying out the joint system. From the beginning there had been comparatively few schools under joint management. Rules
 210 "One of these religious persons in giving instruction will not only give it after secular education has been supplied, but will give it in conjunction with literary instruction." 211
 MR. HUNT  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home De-
 161
 MR. HUNT : Sir, I should like to ask the noble Lord, whether the Conference will meet on Saturday to deliberate, or simply to go through some formulary? I think this House is entitled to know whether the Conference has closed its deliberations or not, and whether it meets on Saturday to go through some matter of form?
 MR. BUTT  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, When the papers relative to the case of Mr. James M'Hugh, moved for on the 14th of June, will be produced; and whether any Communication has been received from the Government of the United States holding out any expectation of an early release of Mr. M'Hugh?
 MR. BUTT  said, he thought it unfortunate that they had been carried away into a general discussion of education in Ireland. He must confess that there never had been so much agitation raised about so small a change. In the month of November last the Commissioners republished their rules, and in one respect did they make a material alteration, which the hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir Hugh Cairns) invited them to declare was at variance with the principles of National Education, and thus practically asked the House to pass a Vote of Censure on the Commissioners. Now, in 1831, immediately on the establishment of the system, the question arose whether the convent schools should receive aid; and it was found that the Kildare Place Society, which the system was intended to supersede, did give a large number of these schools assistance. The lending of support to them, therefore, was no new thing, nor could he understand how any person anxious to bring education and civilization to the lower classes in Ireland, could deliberately reject the services of those ladies who were so well calculated to effect those objects. The whole ground of the Vote of Censure which the House was asked to give was this, that the Commissioners had agreed to give in some schools of greater efficiency a little higher salary to first class monitors; and it was supposed that many of
 217 vice versâ. 218
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had asked why the clergy of the Church of Ireland did not avail themselves of the advantages offered by the Board, and he declared that a man of his great understanding could not comprehend why they did not. He would tell him why. Because they belonged to the Church of England, which the right hon. Gentleman was supposed to represent, and he referred him to a petition signed by 5,000 of the clergy of the Church of England to that House, in which they said they approved that decision. They were the founders of the Kildare Place Society, and he spoke truly when he said that that society did give aid to convent schools, but they did so upon the condition that, in the schools receiving aid, the Scriptures should be read. He thought Lord Stanley was right in directing that aid should be given to those convent schools, and he also thought the convent school of Youghal should receive aid, but not under false pretences The point for the House to consider was, whether there was any solution but one—to let the religious element free, and to provide a good secular education available for all classes. He knew no other solution but that. The hon. and learned Member for Youghal had declared that the Motion proceeded from bigotry of gentlemen in the North of Ireland. Was the House aware that the promoters were strong supporters of the Government, that Mr. Gibson, who was returned for Belfast by the Catholics and Presbyterians, had signed the protest? If the Attorney General for Ireland had read the names of the eminent merchants of Belfast who were strong supporters of Roman Catholic emancipation, he would find those names amongst those who were now protesting against these changes; and it was, therefore, unwise of the hon. and learned Member for Youghal to attack some of the most acute and intelligent men to be found in all Ireland.
 MR. BLAKE,  in seconding the Motion of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the King's County, fully concurred in everything that had fallen from him, except the latter portion of his speech, where he expressed fears that the Chief Secretary for Ireland would withdraw the opinion contained in his letter to the Education Commissioners. However he differed in many things from the right hon. Baronet, he bad a better opinion of him than to apprehend he would do anything of the kind, because whatever his faults were—and he had not then the least intention of charging him with any retractation of what he avowed, or playing the hypocrite to his opinions, whether right or wrong—the habit of retractation could not be included amongst them. He congratulated his hon. and learned Friend for the bold and straightforward course he had adopted in moving the Amendment. It was better that the truth should be admitted, and that every man should declare his opinions and the course he would take on this most important question. He was prepared to do both, and would lay in plain terms before the House what be believed to be the real facts of the case, and his own reasons for his change of opinions, and the course which he had taken, and would adhere to, on the Education question. He was for denominational grants and for combined religious and secular education, which necessarily involved the separate system, which he sincerely believed was best to insure sound moral training, which was a consideration of the greatest importance; and he had no doubt pupils would acquire worldly knowledge all the better for the combination, and in order to accomplish what sincere religionists on both sides rightly desired—the power to educate their youth in the manner they deemed best calculated to promote their temporal and eternal welfare—he thought it better that the truth should
 194 195 196 197 198 "Dublin Castle, 30th Jan. 1864. "Sir,—The attention of the Irish Government has been drawn to certain contemplated changes in the fundamental rules of the system of National Education in Ireland, the effects of which will be seriously to imperil the principle upon which the system is based; and I am to remind you, as Resident Commissioner, that the Board of Commissioners, as incorporated by Royal Charter, has no power to change any fundamental rule without the express permission of His Excellency the Lord Lieutenant. "I am, &c. (Signed) "ROBERT PEEL. "Right Hon. Alex. Macdonnell, &c. &c. &c." 199
 MR. SPEAKER : If the noble Lord wishes to make a personal explanation I have no doubt the House will permit him to do so, but I lather understand from him that it is not a personal matter.
 MR. SPEAKER : The Question raised by the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets is one well worthy the consideration of the House, and has quite properly been brought under its notice by
 172
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that the hon. and learned Attorney General for Ireland told them the other evening that the present agitation was an attack on the system of National Education in Ireland. If so, by whom was it made? From the papers laid on the table he gathered that the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary was one
 185 "The attention of the Irish Government has been drawn to certain contemplated changes in the fundamental rules of the system of National Education in Ireland, the effects of which will be seriously to imperil the principle upon which the system is based." 186
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he did not refer to the subvention. The point to which he desired to draw attention was that, while the promoters of an ordinary National school might establish another in the same town, and receive aid for both, there was a rule of the Board which provided that one school only attached to any conventual community should receive aid. In England, if there were two schools connected with a convent both would receive aid. Thus, in Blandford Square, there was a community of nuns with two convent schools attached, both of which received aid. In Ireland, only one in connection with any single community would be assisted. Thus in Limerick the Sisters of Mercy had several well-conducted schools, but they only received a grant for one.
 MR. HENNESSY : The rule told them one thing, the blue-book told them another thing, and the practice told them another thing. The practice of the Board was at variance with their own rules.
 MR. HENNESSY : Not of the same community.
 MR. HENNESSY : The Report of the National Board did not corroborate what the right hon. Gentleman said. He did not, however, deny that such a rule was in existence.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he thought it would be better for the right hon. Gentleman to explain after he had concluded his remarks. The rule, he believed, existed, and if so, only one school in connection with one community could receive Government aid. That was the rule passed in 1855, and he thought it would be found to be as he had stated. But there were other rules which struck mainly at convent schools. One was that the children should not make the sign of the cross, and another rule was that no crucifixes, no religious pictures or emblems of religion, should be exhibited in the school in school hours. Was it possible that such rules should be enforced in a convent? Speaking as a Catholic, he said it was utterly impossible to do so, and it would be unwise for any Government to attempt to enforce them. At a late meeting in Dublin, presided over by the Lord Mayor, and attended, among others, by the Bishop of Saldes, the Rev. Mr. Kirby said that a certain individual had visited a school in Cork kept by the good Sisters of the Presentation Convent, but under the Board of National Education. The children had been taught to make the sign of the cross whenever the clock struck, but the nuns told the children not to make the sign while the visitor was present, he being an Inspector of the National Board. When the clock struck, however, the custom overcame the injunction, the tiny hand of every child in the
 188 "However, in many of the schools I visited, these objects are kept in a little recess in the wall at the end of the room, and are hidden by a curtain." 189 "That notwithstanding the explanations so kindly given, we are still of opinion that the changes introduced in the National System of Education are most serious and dangerous, and incompatible with the safety of the religious principles of our Catholic children." 190 "Patrons, managers, and teachers, are not required to exclude any children from any religious instruction given in the school; but all children are to have full power to absent themselves, or to withdraw from it." 191 The Times "This concession considerably altered the original proposed system. It rendered it, instead of being a rigid system of exclusion of all religion from the common education of the people, an experiment how far Roman Catholics and Protestants could proceed together with perfect unanimity in introducing Scriptural light among the population generally, an experiment the most interesting and important, but the most delicate and difficult ever intrusted to any Commission." "And thus I am a happy English child." 192 "We are unhappy Irish children." "We do not worship stocks and stones." Cries of 193
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he would not press his Amendment if the hon. and learned Gentleman would withdraw his Resolution.
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he doubted the propriety of introducing into a Commutation Bill a preamble reciting the existence of a prerogative which had been much doubted, often disputed, and in many cases could not be enforced. He thought it a dangerous thing that the corporation should be enabled to claim as a debt due by the owners of a cargo so much per cwt., especially as a debt preceding the execution of the work which formed the consideration. As the measure stood, it would establish a monopoly and ignore the changes which mechanical facilities might hereafter provide for the execution of the work. He thought it highly undesirable to stereotype a rate of charge without reserving some power of competition.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, that as a Roman Catholic Member he might be supposed to know something of the class of schools that had been attacked by the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir Hugh Cairns). He would do that hon. and learned Gentleman the justice to say that he dealt with every question in the spirit of a gentleman, with great calmness, courtesy, power of logic, and arrangement of his subject. But the hon. and learned Member for Belfast was in that
 212 213 214 215 216
 MR. ROGERS  said, he would also beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, When the Annual Report for 1863, on the state of our Colonial Possessions, presented on March 18th, will be in the hands of Members?
 MR. ROGERS  said, he wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade, When a Return on the subject of Unclaimed Wreck, ordered on the 29th of April, will be laid upon the table?
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, that as the Amendment of the hon. Member related entirely to the Standing Orders of the House, it was desirable that the discussion of the merits should be disentangled from the difficulty suggested, and that the House should decide whether the Bill was a public or private one. In the first instance, he (Colonel Patten) had been under the impression that the measure was a private one; but after looking at several other Bills which had passed the House, he confessed he entertained doubts upon the subject. He, therefore, would respectfully suggest that it would much simplify the discussion if the Speaker would favour them with his opinion on it.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he would accede to the suggestion, but on Monday he should move that the Bill be referred to a Committee of ten Members, to be named by the Committee of Selection.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he rose to move the second reading of the Bill, and with a view of correcting some misapprehensions which prevailed on the subject, both in and out of the House, he would take the opportunity of briefly stating the objects of the measure. From time im-
 164 165 The Times The Times, 166
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, If the same consideration which is shown to the relatives of Officers who fall in battle will be extended to the relatives of those Officers who lost their lives in the late campaign on the Gold Coast; and if the purchase money for the Commission of the late Major Merrick will be returned to his representatives?
 MR. O'HAGAN (THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND)  denied that he had ever said anything of the sort. He distinctly explained the difference as to the subvention in the case of convent and other schools.
 MR. O'HAGAN (THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND)  said, he could not but complain of the unfounded insinuation which the hon. Member for Belfast had urged against the Commissioners—that they had perverted the truth. The extract from the instructions to the Inspectors, which had been quoted by the hon. Member, ought not to be read alone, but ought to be accompanied by the two previous clauses. The Commissioners desired to receive every information and suggestion about the schools which could possibly be of any advantage; but as those statements were too long and wearisome for the public generally, another form had to be filled up, confining the Report to the bare statement of facts. He would only say further, in reference to some humorous observations which were made by the hon. and learned Gentleman, that many things might be said in the course of debate by one Member, which another Member could not approve; but, as far as his own opinions were concerned, they had been stated perhaps at
 234
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  asked the hon. Gentleman when he alleged that the corporation destroyed their records?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the opinion of the right hon. Gentleman would be of material assistance to the House, not only for its direct purpose in throwing light on the Motion of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets, but also in respect to the vote which they would, he supposed, ultimately have to give on the question, whether the Bill should or should not be read the second time. He assumed that the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets would no longer press his Motion on the point of form, but acquiesce in the opinion just delivered from the Chair; and he assumed also that he would not insist on the objection he had raised as to the want of a preliminary Resolution on the introduction of the Bill. Apart from the question, whether or not the Bill required a preliminary Resolution, as being a Bill affecting trade, it was pretty clear that as a Bill affecting taxation it would not require such a Resolution, if, at least, the revenue of the corporation of the City stood on the same footing as the public revenue of the country. Although it was the practice, for the convenience of the House, in moving the reduction of a duty, to do it in the form of a Resolution in Committee of Ways and Means, yet that practice was founded simply on the advantage of giving full information to the House of what the plans of the Government as to the finance of the year might be, and it was quite competent for any Member of the Government, or any independent Member of the House, to introduce any Bill for the reduction of a tax without a preliminary Resolution. The case had been ably stated on both sides. So far as his Parliamentary experience went, and it now extended over a very long period of time, he had never known the duties of a representative of the City of London more ably or satisfactorily discharged than they were by his hon. Friend (Mr. Crawford), who had brought forward the subject in a very clear and practical manner. Then, the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the Tower Hamlets set out a great deal of matter, he admitted, of much importance, one portion of it being connected with the subject of the reform of the corporation of the City of London. He took it that there were few who sat on those Benches that could look back with entire satisfaction to the part which Parliament had played, or rather had not played, in the reform of the corporation of the City;
 174 175 ad hoc,
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that his hon. Friend must have been misinformed—at least, the facts which had come within his (the Chancellor of the Exchequer's) knowledge were entirely different. The Act of the present Session had no bearing on this subject, except to reduce the Duties which were recited in it, and were not applicable to the instruments of which his hon. Friend had spoken. No new construction had been put on the law as it stood, and as it had stood before the Act of the present Session. What had taken place was this—some persons felt a doubt as to whether the orders to which his hon. Friend had referred were liable to Stamp Duty, as was the case with Powers of Attorney, and the opinion of the Law Officers of the Crown was that they were so liable. But the date of that opinion was as old as the month of December, 1860, and he was not cognizant of any further proceedings having been taken since that time. It was not a question of penalty, no penalty being imposed for not using a stamp. It was purely a question of discretion in the parties as to the legality of the instrument they used, and the risk of being unable to enforce it in case it should be questioned in a court of justice.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I do not think there is any one who has listened to the speech of my hon. Friend (Mr. Lefroy) who will complain of its temper or tone, nor can any one charge him with disingenuousness in regard to the motives which govern his conduct in this matter; but I must confess I cannot understand the difficulty he feels in rejecting the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for King's County for the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Belfast. It appears to me that the Motion and the Amendment are ostensibly in diametrical opposition to each other. In fact, the Amendment is hardly within the limits of Parliamentary Amendments; it is a complete inversion of the Motion, and it is such an extension of its scope as entirely to change the character of the debate. The hon. and learned Member for Belfast, assuming the language of the straitest sect of those who support the National Board, complains of an undue deviation from the original system; and the hon. and learned Member for King's County picks out of his Motion the very words on which its pith depends, and substitutes for it a Motion of a totally different character, assailing the very institution which the hon. and learned Member for Belfast professes to uphold. It is another question whether we may not find
 220 221 222 223 224 225 226
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I spoke on it before you came into the House.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I said no such thing. I said that, so far as circumstances would admit, the same principles would be applied to the two countries.
 MR. COX  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether any steps have been taken to carry into effect the recommendation of the Select Committee on Royal Forests (Essex) presented on the 9th day of June, 1863, which recommendation was as follows:—
 "Your Committee report that a considerable extent of Ground has been enclosed without any consideration being paid for the Forestal Right of the Crown over them, which do not appear to have been either purchased or redeemed: and your Committee recommend that immediate steps be taken by the Crown to assert its right and to abate such enclosures."
 MR. MONSELL  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, What is the cause of the delay in the competitive trial to be made by the Ordnance Select Committee of the heavy rifled guns on various systems now lying ready at Woolwich; and whether there is any reason for delaying this trial until the extended trial, by another Committee, of the Armstrong and Whitworth systems is brought to a conclusion?
 MR. MONSELL  said, that was a mis-
 187
 MR. MONSELL : I am aware of this particular rule, but it does happen that in Limerick the Sisters of the same community have several schools, and receive assistance.
 MR. MONSELL : Yes; of the Sisters of Mercy.
 MR. ALDERMAN ROSE  said, he thought the right hon. Gentleman had very fairly stated the manner in which the Bill came before the House, and as the judgment from the Chair had disposed of the Amendment, he need not refer at any length to the manner in which the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets had unburdened himself of his peculiar notions with regard to the City of London. The hon. Member said that he represented the Docks and the Fellowship Porters. He ought to be aware that the Docks charged the public 3½ per cent more than the City of London charged. As to the Fellowship Porters, they came before the House last Session under the auspices of the hon. Member; but from the petition of an immense majority it appeared that the control of the funds of that body was in the hands of a few who wished to distribute them among themselves. The fact was that, the moment the question was raised, the corporation had called a meeting of the trade, those who were most competent to give an opinion as to the work to be done, the prices that should be charged for it, and what the trade were prepared to pay. The corporation deliberated upon it, and it was found the charge made in the Bill was fair and reasonable to have the work satisfactorily done. It was very easy to throw any quantity of dirt upon a public body, but he declared emphatically that the random assertions made by the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets on a former evening were totally unfounded.
 MR. ALDERMAN ROSE  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State
 152
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied, that the Bill had been returned from the House of Lords only within the last five minutes. He proposed to have the Amendments printed, and then that a proper opportunity should be given for taking them into consideration,
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the Government would vote against the Amendment, and then the division would be taken upon the original Resolution.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he wished to know whether the sanitary arrangements for Field Service laid down by the late Lord Herbert have been attended to?
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : The right hon. Baronet has repeated in stronger terms still the very expression which I endeavoured to put down in writing. He says that it is his opinion, but it is something more. It is the opinion of the Attorney General, for they are "synonymous." And then the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer says that in England you have separate training for teachers—why not, therefore, adopt the same practice for Ireland? The right hon. Gentleman's theory appears to be that the system is to be defended in one country because it exists in another.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : It is the Chancellor of the Exchequer who has pronounced the doom, if that doom has been pronounced, of the Irish system of National Education. To him and the Chief Secretary and the Attorney General belong the honour, if honour it may be, of destroying a system which, if carried out in the spirit in which it was originally designed, without the alterations introduced since, has bestowed, and is still bestowing, inestimable benefits upon the people of Ireland.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : The House will, no doubt, be glad to hear if the business of the Government is always conducted in the same manner at Dublin. Would the right hon. Baronet be content, on the strength of a simple assurance, and without examination, to write, "The attention of the Irish Government has been drawn to certain contemplated changes in the fundamental rules of the system of National Education in Ireland, the effects of which will be seriously to imperil the principle upon which the system is based?" But the matter does not rest upon that. He had those two remonstrances in addition to what he might have been told by the four Commissioners, and it is impossible to avoid seeing that the Chief Secretary believed them to be, as he affirmed, "fundamental rules of the system of National Education in Ireland." The right hon. Baronet said that the convent schools were in direct competition with the model schools, and that they ought therefore to be checked.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : Well, for ten; or twelve years, although there have been many debates, I have never heard him open his mouth before upon this subject. The Chancellor of the Exchequer has no right to say, I having on scores of occasions expressed my opinion in favour of the Board generally, that under cover of this Motion I am seeking to undermine it; but let us see whether the Board has always shown itself so very anxious to conciliate persons of religious feelings in Ireland by softening the rigid theory of the system as it originally stood. I could mention several cases, but let me take the most recent one, In 1860 the clergy of the diocese of Deny, who were desirous of putting their schools under the Board, said they were willing to
 230 231 232
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : Sir, I think the House has reason to congratulate itself both as to the substance and the tone of the greater part of the debate upon this subject. If I might take leave to refer to one particular speech, I would say, with the permission of the hon. Member for Roscommon (the O'Conor Don), that I never heard a question of this importance argued with greater fairness, ability, and point than by the hon. Gentleman, though I do not agree with his argument. If I might make an exception, I would say that I think the hon. and learned Member for Youghal (Mr. Butt), in his speech, brought into the debate an asperity and an acrimony which I hope he did not intend to evoke, and from which, fortunately, up to that time, the debate had been free. Finally, the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who had obviously heard extremely little of the debate, and still more obviously had studied very little of the question, has made it necessary that I should set right some misrepresentations which he has—of course, unintentionally—made. It has been said that the form of the Motion which I have submitted to the House is really an attack upon convent schools, and a demand that convent schools shall be deprived of any aid from the Education Board. Now, I thought that in opening the discussion I had prevented any such apprehension. But I now repeat that not only would I not advocate any proposition for depriving convent schools, educating as they do some 40,000 or 50,000 children, of aid from a Board which calls itself National, but I would go further, and say that a Board of National Education would not be worthy of the name unless it applied itself to the question of how schools which educate such a body of children should be brought within its reach and supplied with aid by its means. I say now, as I have said in this House before, that in like manner the Board has to some
 227 228 "The Commissioners of National Education have directed us to call upon you to make a special inspection of and report on each convent or monastic school in your district. We are, therefore, to instruct you to suspend at once the discharge of every other duty, no matter what its character, in order to carry out the wishes of the Board on this important business. We have, accordingly, to request that you will spend a day or so in the study of the queries and headings contained in the special form, on which you are to make your report on each school, and we cannot possibly doubt that, after an inspection based upon an intelligent apprehension of these queries, you will be able to give such an honest, thoroughly impartial, and comprehensive report of each convent or monastic school in your charge as will assist in the elucidation of truth in respect to a controversy which you can scarcely have failed to observe is going on in reference to convent schools." "That suggestions, technical details, &c, appropriate in ordinary reports, are accordingly to be avoided. Should the consideration of this Report suggest any points of an important nature for the improvement of these schools as to organization, &c, such points can be made the subject of a special communication to the Board at some future period." 229
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he also wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, To lay upon the table of the House any Reports from Captain Shortt, of the  Gladiator,
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether the attention of Her Majesty's Government has been drawn to the Report of an action which took place last Sunday between the United States frigate  Kearsarge Alabama Research. "The space in the battery is so confined that the men have not room to work the guns with that facility that is required. 1. The battery is 33ft. in length by 32ft. in breadth inside; within this space are four heavy guns, upwards of 80 men, funnel, wheel, hatchway for supplying powder and shell. 2. There is a difficulty in traversing the guns from the broadside to the bow and quarter ports. 3. When the broadside guns were fired with extreme train, foremost ones to the left, after ones to the right, the captains of them could not stand to direct and fire them. These points being of great importance, I have considered it right to bring them before the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty." 156
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, there was no one who had more zealously devoted himself to the interests of the metropolis at large, as distinguished from that small portion of it compromised within the City, than the hon. Member for the Tower Ham-
 176
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he would suggest, that before the right hon. Gentleman gave his opinion, that it was desirable they should be told what the difference was in respect to the Standing Orders between the Bill before the House and the City Police Bill, which was stopped by the corporation.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : I had not seen the rules myself; but, as I have already stated, I had been told by four Commissioners what they were.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : What I did say was, and I gave it as my opinion only, that the convent schools had increased so much of late years that they would soon destroy
 233
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he would beg leave to put the hon. Member right on that point.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : After the direct appeal that has been made to me, it is necessary that I should address a few remarks to the House, and I think before I conclude I shall be able to convince the two hon. Gentlemen who have last addressed us, that the letter which has been so frequently referred to was not altogether unjustifiable. Before going to that particular subject, I am anxious to allude to one or two remarks which fell from the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Hennessy). I have often heard him make good speeches in this House, but I do not think his speech on this occasion was worthy of him. The National system during its existence has had many difficulties to encounter and many fiery trials to go through. It has had antagonists from all quarters; but I rejoice to think that it still works for good, when I know that there are more than 6,000 schools in operation, with an average number of children on the rolls for the year of more than half a million. Therefore, I think that no one will be inclined to give his assent to the sentiment of the hon. and learned Gentleman, when he almost rejoiced that the National system was, as he said, upon its last legs. That is not the belief I entertain. It is true that since 1831, when the Whigs of that day to their immortal credit established the system which now prevails—no doubt since then, many changes have been made in the rules and regulations of this National institution, but deliberately in every instance with the approval of the Government of the day. But, referring immediately to the question before us, I must, in the first instance, notice the remarkable speech of my right hon. Colleague the Attorney General for Ireland. But if I am desirous of supplementing the remarks which he then made,
 200
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that he had not seen the written rules, but he had received verbal information from the Bishop of Derry, Dr. Henry, and other Commissioners as to the changes which were contemplated.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : The hon. and
 201 Daily News, "I deprecate the introduction of rules eminently calculated to bow the seeds of discord, and to subvert one of the noblest institutions of our land." 202 203 Cork Examiner "In three provinces" says that journal, "it is very well known the system of mixed education does not exist; in nearly all the schools the Roman Catholic clergy have almost unlimited discretion as regards religious instruction; were it otherwise, the National system would be intolerable; it lives, in fact, upon the false pretence of being what it is not." 204 205 206 207 "The rules sanctioned by the Commissioners of National Education, so far as regards the operation of the aid afforded to convent or monastic schools, are at variance with the principles of the Board of National Education."
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether his attention has been called to the situation of the Butt which has been erected for Rifle Practice near the New Croydon Railway, between the Streatham Common and the Thornton Heath Stations; and whether the War Office are satisfied that the Range can be used without danger to the public?
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE : Will the noble Lord lay on the table the terms of the reference to the Court of Admiralty?
 MR. HUTT  said, in the absence of his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade, he had to state that all the information was not yet obtained, but he believed it would be complete in a few days.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Yes, if the hon. Gentleman will move for it.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, according to the general practice of the Court of Admiralty, the expense of any proceeding in regard to Prize Money is paid out of the general proceeds of the Prize Money, and is not charged to the individual officers except in cases in which, in the opinion of the Judge, the allegations of the parties have been improper, unfounded, or deserving to be visited by costs. A reference has been made by the Government, but there are several other claims besides those of the Banda claimants to which the attention of the Court of Admiralty is to be directed, and I cannot say whether the Court will be of opinion that they have been improperly brought forward or not.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, the Question of the right hon. Gentleman is a very natural one, and I am quite aware
 163
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I stated my opinion that the meeting on Saturday will be the final meeting. It is impossible for me to say what will take place at a meeting not yet assembled. I say that on Monday I shall lay on the table a Report of all the proceedings of the Conferences, accompanied, I hope, by the proceedings of Saturday.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : They will be laid on the table on Monday, and I presume they will be distributed with the papers on the following morning.
 MR. CORRY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether the Admiralty would object to send a competent officer to Cherbourg to examine and report on the mode adopted to strengthen the sides of the  Kearsarge Times
 MR. CORRY  said, he wished to know whether the flag list was to be no longer divided into the three squadrons of Red, White, and Blue?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  replied, that the sanitary regulations referred to were included in the book of Medical Regulations which were directed to be, and he believed were, in the hands of every surgeon in the Army. It was specially laid down in these regulations, that the senior medical officer should be responsible for seeing that the sanitary regulations were carried out, and he had not received any Report to the effect that those regulations had not been carried out.
 MR. DIGBY SEYMOUR  said, he rose to call attention to the system pursued of removing paupers and persons under sentence of banishment from Jersey to the seaports of England, especially Southampton. He had previously brought the Question before the House upon a memorial from the corporation of Southampton, complaining that people under sentence for crime, and paupers, were provided with a free passage from Jersey, and shipped to Southampton and other ports, where they became a burden to the ratepayers. He had been happy to hear that with regard to Guernsey that statement was not correct, but
 278 279
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that as the Bill was only delivered to hon. Members on the 18th inst., and no opportunity had been given to the brewers of Ireland to see and consider it, he should like to have some explanation as to its objects.
 MR. LONGFIELD  said that, bowing to the decision of the Speaker, that it was competent to re-commit the Bill, he intended to move that it be referred to a Select Committee. When the Attorney General for Ireland fixed the Bill for a morning sitting, objections were raised by Irish Members on that (the Opposition) side, from the feeling that they would be deprived of the attendance of English Members, upon whose good sense they relied to defeat what they considered to be a job. All the Irish Members who had given notice of Amendments were also engaged upon Committees, and then no fair opportunity for discussing the Bill would be afforded at morning sittings. It could not be expected that they would make a House to carry a job by which the Irish Members of the Administration were to be benefited. The right hon. Gentleman, however, did not consider the motives he (Mr. Longfield) had urged sufficient to induce him to alter his arrangement; but he fixed the Bill for a Tuesday morning sitting, when there were several Orders standing upon the paper. With some difficulty he (Mr. Longfield) left his Committee with a view of moving, if possible, the Amendment of which he had given notice. The Speaker, with his usual punctuality, was ready to take the Chair, but a House was not made till after half-past twelve. He could not longer absent himself from his
 286 bonâ fide 287 288 289
 MR. LONGFIELD  resumed: The Royal Commissioners who investigated the subject, recommended the abolition of the masters in Chancery, and the substitution for them of a vice chancellor and chief clerks. That they had done entirely regardless of the cost to the country. They had not reported any evidence showing that the assimilation of the Irish and English practice would be judicious; but the Report exhibited on its very face that the idea was a preconceived one. The result would inevitably be that three of the Royal Commissioners would be provided for under the present Bill, Was that a Commission whose recommendations ought to be attended to? In that way the Royal Commissioners were voting themselves placemen to be paid by the public money, which they were told to save. He conceived that the House ought not to refuse to send the Bill to a Select Committee, the Member of which would be able to judge by evidence whether the measure would effect a public saving or not. It had been said that the Bill was for the good of Ireland; but there might be dif-
 290
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he rose to second the Amendment. Considering the thin state of the House, he thought that they were performing a most solemn farce in now pretending to discuss the Bill. An hon. Member connected with Ireland had twice or thrice moved that the House be counted in order to get it fuller, for it was well known that the subterranean brigade were ready, upon the usual summons, to emerge at any moment from the infernal regions. So far as a reform of the Court of Chancery, which the Bill proposed to effect, was concerned, he could only say, speaking as a country gentleman, that the mode in which the business of that Court was at present transacted in Ireland was perfectly satisfactory. Theoretically Chancery business might be better transacted in England, but Irishmen wanted no change in their system of Chancery procedure. There were in Ireland three masters, men of high legal attainments, and he saw no good reason why those three men should be paid salaries for retiring while others were put in their places who could not give greater satisfaction. He, for one, objected to the change, and should oppose the Bill in every shape and form.
 MR. HUNT  said, he did not propose to discuss the merits of the Bill, but simply wished to enter his protest against the mode of proceeding which its promoters had adopted, believing them, as he did, to be acting in contravention of the established usages of the House. The Bill having been disposed of as it had been on Tuesday last, in Committee of the whole House, ought not, he thought, to be brought forward again in the present Session. On the occasion to which he referred the hon. and learned Member for Clare had, it seemed, voted by mistake with the majority, but he could say for himself, and he believed also for one or two other friends of his, that they were likewise the victims of a mistake, inasmuch as they thought the bell which rang two minutes before four o'clock on Tuesday could not be the division bell, and did not in consequence come into the House and vote in favour of the Chairman's leaving the Chair, as he at all events intended to have done. If a Bill were referred to a Select Committee and that Committee pronounced against it, it was not, he believed, usual to proceed with it in the House, and he did not see why the case in which a Bill happened to be disposed of by a Committee of the whole House should stand on a different footing. He recollected that in 1861, when the second reading of the Marriage with a Deceased Wife's Sister Bill was moved by Mr. M. Milnes, who had since been translated to a higher, and he hoped a happier sphere, he (Mr. Hunt) had moved a Resolution pointing out particular defects in it, but not amounting to its rejection, in the same way as the usual Motion made for that purpose. That Resolution he had carried by a small majority, and the Bill was disposed of for the time, but Mr. Milnes a few days after appealed to the Speaker to say whether he would be in order in proceeding with the measure that Session, and the decision was, that it was competent for the hon. Gentleman to appoint another day for the second read-
 292
 MR. O'HAGAN (THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND)  said, that as the House had already heard on two or three different occasions the same statements and imputations made in almost the same words as they had listened to that evening, and as he had on those occasions replied to those statements and imputations to the best of his ability, he should not go over ground again which he had before trodden. As to his own position in regard to the Bill, he could only say that it was not a measure of his, or, properly speaking, of the Government. In submitting it to the House he was simply endeavouring to carry out the recommendations solemnly made of a Royal Commission of the highest authority. Complaints having been made for many years of the gravest character with reference to the constitution and practice of the Court of Chancery in Ireland, all men belonging to the profession, and all persons outside the profession competent to form an opinion, felt that a change was necessary. At the instance not of the Government, but of a noble Lord who, as far as his Resolution went, was acting not in community with, but in opposition to, the Government, it pleased the Crown, upon an Address from the House of Lords, to appoint a Royal Commission. The fact that he, as one of the Law Officers of the Crown, was a Member of that Commission would not preclude him from bearing testimony to the eminent men, the highest in their respective professions at either side of the Channel, of whom it was composed, among them being the Master of the Rolls, the Attorney General, Sir W. Page Wood, and the hon. and learned Member for Belfast (Sir Hugh Cairns), whose recommendations seemed to meet with but scant approval from his political friends. The Commission, after full and conscientious inquiry, reported that Ireland ought to enjoy the benefit of those successive changes in the law which in England had been attended with great advantage, and have worked so satisfactorily
 293
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, his right hon. and learned Friend had spoken with unusual ardour, considering that the subject of law amendment was one that generally tended to composure of the mind. As a young Member he would take the sugges-
 294 295 296 297
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, he had no objection to adopt the suggestion, and would therefore withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. BUTT  said, he hoped that the House would clearly understand before it went to a division, that the short question before it was, Whether reforms which had been carried on in England, and found to work most successfully, should be extended to Ireland?
 MR. GEORGE  said, that a Bill of 192 clauses, which proposed to alter the whole practice and procedure of the Irish Court of Chancery, required a great deal more discussion than it had received before it could possibly become law. The Masters in Chancery in Ireland fulfilled the very duties which they proposed to create expensive officials to discharge. The Commission of 1861 was composed of men of the highest character, but the Committee of 1856 was equally composed of men of the highest character. It was strange, how-
 298
 MR. VANCE  said, that after the very narrow majority by which the Government had defeated the Amendment of his right hon. and learned Friend the Member for the University of Dublin, he thought they should not press the Motion for going into Committee. He understood that eleven of the clauses had been agreed to when only four or five Members were present, and he therefore thought that they ought to re-commit the Bill  de novo.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, it was true the majority just obtained by the Government was a small one, but it was larger than that by which the Motion for the Chairman to leave the Chair was carried on Tuesday last. If the House would allow the Speaker to leave the Chair, and would go into Committee on the Bill, the Government would not proceed with any of the clauses that night; and before the Committee on the Bill was resumed, his right hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General for Ireland would consider what course he should take with reference to the measure, regard being had to the circumstances which had already taken place, and to the period of the Session at which the House had arrived.
 MR. HUNT  observed that, as it was obvious the Government could not carry the Bill during the Session, it would be more graceful of them to at once withdraw it.
 MR. O'HAGAN (THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND)  said, the subject was one of great importance with reference to proceedings in Ireland, and he did not think that he ought to be called on to come to a decision off-hand as to the fate of the Bill, but he would give the matter his best consideration.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, no doubt the hon. Member was a great authority in these matters, but he ought to have recollected that the Speaker, in answer to a question addressed to him, had declared that the course which had been pursued was strictly in accordance with the rules of the House.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he did not understand that such a proposition had been laid down. On the contrary, he thought the rule was that a vote that the Chairman do leave the Chair was regarded by any Gentleman charged with a Bill as a strong hint not to introduce it again. It seemed, however, that with right hon. Gentlemen opposite the strongest argument in favour of the Bill was that the opinion of the House had been pronounced against it.
 COLONEL W. STUART  said, that though the Speaker had decided that they might, according to the letter of the law, go on with the Bill, yet they all felt that it was sharp practice to go on with it with only a majority of two in favour of such a proceeding, while a majority of one the other day had stopped the progress of the Bill. The other day the Chief Secretary for Ireland was present, but to-night he was not in his place.
 MR. ESMONDE  said, he would remind the House that the Bill had only been put
 300
 MR. F. S. POWELL  said, he did not understand the feverish anxiety of the Government to pass the Bill, and to cover their reputation at the expense of the sister country. He hoped they would yield to the undoubted feeling of the House, and take further discussion at a reasonable hour.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that his right hon. and learned Friend did not ask them to make further progress with the Bill that night, but he did wish that effect should be given to the Vote which had been twice taken. He protested against the assumption that a majority of the House in Committee was to prevent the House receiving the Bill. If that were so, measures of great importance might be frustrated by a casual Treasury Bench majority.
 MR. LYGON  said, he wished it to be understood that he felt himself incompetent to discuss the Bill upon its merits, but having watched its varying fortunes, fluctuating as they did every five minutes, he would ask the Government if they intended to persevere with it. If it were right to reinstate it upon a technical objection, it was perfectly right also for that side of the House to urge technical objections against its progress. He begged leave, therefore, to move the adjournment of the debate.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that there was one great difference between the objects of the two sides of the House. The Government desired to see the Bill discussed on its own merits, and to have it passed if the House concurred in the opinion they held of the advantages which they believed it would confer, while the other side of the House desired to prevent its passing under any circumstances—not to defeat it by argument, but to prevent its progress by offering every obstruction in their power. As, however, the point was not in reality one of great importance, the Government would consent to the adjournment of the debate.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, the proposal was merely to substitute the precautions practised in England for those practiced in Ireland, and he really could not tell
 284
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, the hon. Member was not in order in referring to what was said in a former debate.
 MR. PEEL  said, that the Act of the; last Session was coming into rather extensive operation, and it would be very undesirable if, after all the trouble that had been taken to form district boards, they should find that the security which they could give the Government for loans was not such as it could accept. The Bill was mainly intended to repair that defect; and he could not see, therefore, what exception could be taken to it. The mortgages of persons who had a priority of claim before the Government would really be improved by the draining of the land; but if there were any case of hardship, he should be glad to insert words in Committee to meet it.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET , in reply, said, he had the pleasure to state, that Her Majesty had sanctioned the granting of the Blue Ensign to ships commanded and partly manned by men belonging to the Royal Naval Reserve, and that henceforth the White Ensign would be the ensign of Her Majesty's fleet. The Blue would be the ensign of ships of the Royal Naval Reserve, and the Red the ensign for the Merchant Service.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, the three distinctive flags were done away with, and there would be now only Rear Admirals, Vice Admirals, and Admirals.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET , in reply, said, he was obliged to his hon. Friend for having put the Question, and he would state on what grounds the Admiralty had given their orders for the transport to proceed in the way she was about to do. Captain Richards, hydrographer to the Admiralty, in a paper dated the 21st of June, 1864, says with regard to the passage from Cape Coast to the West Indies—
 "The middle-passage is simply the passage across the ocean from continent to continent, and, of course, any ship crossing from Cape Coast to the West Indies must make it. Either a sailing vessel, or a vessel towed by a steamer, or a steamer alone, leaving Cape Coast in July or Au-
 257 "In the days of Horsburgh ships crossed the belt of variable winds too far to the eastward, and, consequently, were much delayed. Modern experience has shown that by crossing the line well to the westward no such delays are experienced."
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET , in reply, said, his right hon. Friend forgot that the  Kearsarge
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he accepted, with pleasure, the admission of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that the subject of the malt tax was entitled to serious consideration, but he regretted that the right hon. Gentleman should have subsequently hinted, by his mysterious allusion to the tea and sugar duties in the present, and to the beer duty in the past, that in his opinion the repeal of the malt tax would be inexpedient for many years to come. There could be no doubt whatever as to the impropriety of the House of Commons pledging itself beforehand to the diminution or repeal of any particular duty on financial grounds, but in the case of the Malt Tax there were social and political considerations which might render a departure from that general rule both justifiable and expedient. The Motion of the hon. Member for the North Riding was merely a supplement to that past system of fiscal re-arrangement which commenced in 1842, but which, in the opinion of those who represented the agricultural interest, was not carried far enough. Since 1842 every tax which was thought to press upon the springs of industry, or which affected any branch of our textile manufactures, had been altogether repealed. The particular ground on which these great changes—changes which caused great distress among the agricultural classes—were justified, was the broad political ground that if they were once adopted, all causes of dissension between class and class would be removed, and that henceforth the agriculturist and the manufacturer would not be divided into hostile camps. But so long as the malt tax remained untouched was it true to say that there was no class of producers, no class of manufacturers, affected—and unjustly affected—by our present system? It was impossible to deny but that on the producers of barley on the one hand, and the manufacturers of meat on the other, these restrictions pressed harshly and unjustly. It was often said with respect to the growers of barley on good barley land, that the malt tax did not operate in a prejudicial manner towards them when they had a good harvest. But what was
 270 271 à priori d. s. d., 272 s. s. s. "Usquebaugh burnt the Irishman, The Scot was drowned in ale." 273 "The cause of the mischief we complain of is evidently the excessive use of tea, which is now become so common that the meanest families, even of labouring people, particularly in boroughs, make their morning's meal of it, and therein wholly disuse the ale which heretofore was their accustomed drink, and the same drug supplies all the labouring women with their afternoon's entertainments to the exclusion of the two penny." 274 s. 275
 MR. NEATE , who had the following Notice on the paper:—
 "That the owners and occupiers of land, by reason of the immunities from Taxation which they now enjoy, and the comparative lightness of the burdens to which they are subject, are not entitled to any priority of consideration on any review of the Taxation of the Country," 276 277
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he should vote for the Resolution, although he should not have done so if it had proposed an immediate interference with the revenue With regard to the proposition of the hon. Member for Oxford (Mr. Neate), implying that special exemptions were given to land, exceed in value the special burdens resting thereon, he had to say that whenever that hon. Gentleman should think fit to raise that issue, he (Mr. Newdegate) would be prepared to controvert the proposition. He should vote for the Resolution before the House, not merely with a view to the repeal of the malt tax, but with the intention of recording an opinion, that when ever a revision of taxation might be again considered, whenever there should be a surplus, which would render a reduction of taxation feasible, the subject of the malt tax should be considered not merely with reference to a repeal of the malt tax, but with reference to the position of the agricultural interest and the consumer as affected by the malt tax, and with a view to the adjustment of other taxation to the inequality produced by the malt tax if the malt tax is not repealed. It was for that purpose he gave his vote with the hon. Member for the North Riding in order to mark his sense of the injustice that would be done unless the incidence of the malt tax were considered in any future adjustment of taxation.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, all that was wanted was that there should be a plain statement of what the Act would do.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that if the Attorney General for Ireland would state that he had gone through all these Acts and could say that they were unobjectionable, he should be satisfied.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that there was something in the objection to the Bill, but as the right hon. Gentleman proposed to improve it in Committee, he would not oppose the second reading.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he thought this a peculiar mode of legislation. The right hon. Gentleman was asked to state the effect of the clauses.
 MR. BAGWELL  said, he did not see what was the use of the Bill, for until the Government undertook the arterial drainage of the country nothing could be done.
 MR. DODSON  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. DODSON  said, he would beg to ask, Whether, under the Highways District Act of 1862, the towns not subject to the jurisdiction of the Board, but adjoining or surrounded by highway districts, are legal places for the meeting of the Board?
 MR. GEORGE  said, that this Bill was a most unjust one, though in a very small compass. There was in existence no Act of Parliament which gave rent charges for drainage a priority over other incumbrances as regards unimproved land; and as he objected to such a priority, he begged to move that the Bill be read a second time that day three months.
 MR. HENNESSY : No description of them whatever was given.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he thought that he was speaking strictly to the question. With regard to a Bill imposing restrictions similar to those contained in that at present before the Committee, he had ventured to move the adjournment of the debate. The right hon. Gentleman on that occasion said, that "an hon. Member who
 285
 MR. HENNESSY  said, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, when appealed to for an explanation, had said that those clauses referred to some fiscal regulation; but he would inform the right hon. Gentleman of the scope of his own Bill. The effect of it would be in one instance to repeal an Act which prohibited adulteration, in the face of a recent statement by the Government that the adulteration of beer was increasing in Ireland. That was one mistake, and another was that a Bill only brought in on the 17th of June, which proposed to inflict on Irish brewers all the regulations existing in England, should be forced on by the Government without explanation, while, when a humble Irish Member asked for explanation, the right hon. Gentleman adopted a tone which was unworthy of his high position. In order to give the right hon. Gentleman an opportunity of looking into the Acts whose provisions he had incorporated in the Bill, but which he had evidently not read, he would move that the Chairman do report Progress.
 MR. HENNESSY  said that, having appealed in vain to the Chancellor of the Exchequer for an answer, he now put the question to the noble Lord at the head of the Government. The right hon. Gentleman, he thought, rather misunderstood his own position, and ought to have taken a lesson from what occurred not long ago. Having put upon the Notice paper several Amendments to one of the fiscal measures of the right hon. Gentleman, when it came on for discussion at a late hour a Motion of adjournment was made, and the right hon. Gentleman said—
 MR. HENNESSY : That was a little irregular. The clause extended to Ireland certain sections of various Acts of Parliament, and he thought the right hon. Gentleman ought to tell the House what would be the effect of them when applied to Ireland.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he wished to ask for some explanation.
 MR. HENNESSY : See how the Chancellor of the Exchequer is treating me! What is "comprised?"
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that the clause must interfere with the Beerhouses Bill, because the Government recommended that Bill as exceptional legislation, which, they said, was necessary for Ireland, while the clause declared that it was expedient that the laws relating to brewing should be made uniform throughout the United Kingdom.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he would beg leave to call the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the discrepancies which, he contended, existed between the Bill and a Bill introduced last Session with respect to brewers. On a former occasion the Chief Secretary for Ireland said that it would not be wise to assimilate the laws of England and Ireland on this subject; but in the present Bill there was a proposal for uniformity. He hoped that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would state why the Irish brewers were included in the measure. He also wished to ask for explanation as to the 16th clause, which deprived magistrates of the power of allowing a person convicted of illicit distillation a few days for the payment of the penalty.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he rose to ask Mr. Attorney General for Ireland, When he will lay on the table of the House the promised Bill for regulating and reforming the Irish Court of Admiralty, and what his intentions are with regard to that measure? It would be remembered that a Bill was introduced by himself last year to assimilate the jurisdiction and practice of the Irish Court of Admiralty to those of the English Court, and in that course he was sustained by memorials and petitions from some of the foremost commercial bodies in the United Kingdom, including Lloyds, the Chambers of Commerce at Liverpool, Glasgow, and Manchester. The Court of Admiralty in England had been reformed several times with great advantage, its jurisdiction having been enlarged and the procedure simplified; and it was very necessary that the Irish Court should undergo similar amendment. Some
 280
 MR. DALGLISH  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether it is true that the Transport which conveys the troops from Cape Coast Castle to the West Indies is likely to pass through a belt of 600 miles, in which only calms and light winds may be expected; and if the mean limit of the north-east trade wind in August is now considered to be in the 13th degree of north latitude?
 MR. O'HAGAN (THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND)  said in reply, that, as one of the Commissioners, he could only endorse the Report, which, however, had only been issued a few days ago. He could assure the hon. Member that he took a strong interest in the matter. Not a moment should be lost without the subject being considered, although he could not pledge himself that the state of public business that Session would afford an op-
 281
 MR. O'HAGAN (THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND)  said, the land drained would often not be worth the expense of the drainage, and therefore the cost was proposed to be secured on the adjoining land not required to be drained; otherwise the money would not be advanced at all for; the draining. He would suggest that the
 302
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, in the absence of his hon. Friend (Mr. Crawford), he would beg to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether any steps have been taken towards granting the privilege of bearing the "Blue Ensign" to Merchant Vessels commanded and partly manned by Officers and Men of the Royal Naval Reserve?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, as it would appear from negative indications given by the House, that the debate was to be restricted within the narrow limits of a duel between the hon. Member (Mr. Morritt) and himself, he could wish that whether he succeeded or not in dealing with the argument in support of the Motion, he should be able to imitate the temper in which the hon. Gentleman had brought the subject before the House. The questions before the House were, on the one side, that in any future modification of indirect taxation the malt tax required consideration, and, on the other, that the House should resolve itself into a Committee of Supply. In point of fact, the Motion of the hon. Member was met by another, which, according to the forms of the House, was equivalent in this instance to the "Previous Question;" and those who voted that the Speaker should leave the Chair would not pronounce a negative on the proposition of the hon. Gentleman, but would indicate in a Parliamentary way that they doubted whether the House should be called upon at present to pass any opinion upon the hon. Gentleman's Motion. It was not a negative of the proposition that the Government asked the House to pronounce, and he should be very sorry to go the length of putting a negative on it. The hon. Gentleman admitted that it was generally unwise to pledge the House beforehand to make a selection of subjects for remission of taxation at a period when they must be necessarily in the dark upon many questions which ought to bear upon the matter. The hon. Gentleman thought himself justified in the course he had taken by assuming that he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) as the representative of the Government in matters of finance, had endeavoured by anticipation to exclude the malt duty from consideration. But such had not been his intention. It was quite true that in presenting his financial statement he offered a partial argument against the remission of the malt duty; but that was strictly and exclusively from one point of view—namely, from the competition in which the malt duty stood at that moment as the favourite subject of an important movement in the country, and with reference to the actual surplus at the time. It was not, therefore, that he wished the House to arrive at any conclusion with respect to its future course in
 264 265 266 267 268 269
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that hon. Members would readily understand why he had not made any statement on the Bill. It consisted of twenty clauses; but as no two of them related to one subject, he thought the better course would be to treat the Bill clause by clause. With reference to Clause 16, objected to by the hon. Member for the King's County, he would agree to postpone it, and the discussion could be taken on it when bringing up the Report. The 9th and 10th clauses merely facilitated the execution of the law; they imposed no new burden, and did not interfere at all with the provisions of the new Beer Act. One of them, indeed, would confer a great benefit upon licensed victuallers in Ireland, for it would allow them for the first time to brew their own beer.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he could only repeat the explanation which he gave before the Speaker left the Chair. He was willing, however, if the hon. and gallant Gentleman desired it, to take care that there should be an opportunity of discussing on the Report any clauses the meaning of which he did not understand. The Bill had nothing to do with the Beerhouses Bill, one being of a fiscal character, and the other relating only to police regulations.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The statement which I made related to both clauses. They have both the same subject-matter.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : It is comprised in what I have said.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the hon. Gentleman had taken a course which was totally without precedent in that House. The regulations under which trades which were liable to revenue inspection were conducted were of the most voluminous character, and to call upon him to make such a statement as he had been asked for, and to read, as the hon. Member had done, to the House clauses which did not in the slightest degree explain themselves, was an abuse of the time and patience of the House. The hon. Gentleman had not raised a single definite objection to the clauses. When he stated that he objected to Clause 16, he immediately offered to postpone it, and he would have done the same with these clauses if any reason had been shown for taking such a course. Legislation of a complicated character could not be discussed in all its details, and he must decline to enter into all the details. He had already stated the general effect of these clauses. If objections were taken he would gladly meet them, and he would postpone the clauses if necessary; but he hoped the time of the House would not be wasted by pursuing the present discussion.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The effect has been stated.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would postpone the clauses until the Report if the hon. and gallant Gentleman would promise in the interim to read the sections and make up his mind whether they were objectionable or not.
 MR. MORRITT  said, the Motion he had to bring forward was one perfectly devoid of party considerations. It was,
 "That in case of any modification of the indirect Taxation of this Country the Excise on Malt requires consideration." 259 260 261 262
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  observed, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had exhorted them not to pass abstract Resolutions; but he would remind the House that the repeal or diminution of the duties on paper, advertisements, and wine had in each case been preceded by a Resolution of that character. There must be a considerable difference of opinion on the subject between the right hon. Gentleman and some of his Colleagues. Some years ago when the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed to reduce the duties upon wine, he dwelt with great force upon the adulteration to which wine was subjected. The argument was equally applicable to beer, and if it supplied a good reason for reducing the duty on wine, then it ought to be good for the reduction of the malt duty. He thought that free trade agriculturists had been too long treated on the principle of "Heads, I win, and tails, you lose." He therefore hoped that at the next opportunity the Chancellor of the Exchequer would take their case into consideration and do them justice.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he had gone through the clauses, and could say that there was nothing objectionable in any one of those which it was proposed to extend to Ireland.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  referred to an understanding with the Chancellor of the Exchequer on a previous occasion, that upon the introduction of the present mea
 282
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that when the hon. and learned Gentleman brought forward the subject some time ago he (Sir George Grey) stated that he had only received a report from the Lieutenant Governor of Guernsey, but not from the Lieutenant Governor of Jersey. He had, however, recently received a report from Jersey, upon the memorial of the corporation of Southampton. The memorial referred to the removal of persons charged with some crime to this country—he did not think it entered into the question of the removal of paupers—and therefore the Report of the Lieutenant Governor related only, he believed, to criminals or persons charged with crime. The best way of affording the House full information upon the subject would be to produce the memorial of the Town Council of Southampton, the letter referring it to the authorities of Jersey and Guernsey, and the Reports of the Lieutenant Governors of those Islands. If the hon. Gentleman would move for those papers they would be produced. But there had been in addition a correspondence conducted by the Poor Law Board with reference to the removal of paupers, which was quite a distinct question, but he had no doubt that that might be produced also.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that since 1840 the ordinary police had not been employed in the enclosed part of St.
 256
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Under the Highway Act of 1862 some doubts existed on this point, but by an Amendment to the Local Government Act made last Session towns adjoining or surrounded by highway districts were constituted legal places for the meeting of the Highway District Boards.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether the Sanitary Regulations for Field Service issued by the Secretary of State, were obeyed before the Army took the field for the Ashantee War?
 MR. J. HARDY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is the fact that the Police are not employed in Saint James's Park as they were in the Green Park and other Parks; and, if so, why that is the case; and whether frequent complaints have been made to the Home Office of the proceedings which take place from want of police supervision in Saint James's Park?
 SIR RICHARD BULKELEY  said, he rose to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether his attention has been drawn to the evidence given at the inquest on the sufferers by the late Railway accident at Egham by Mr. Robert Archibald Scott, Traffic Manager of the South Western Railway, in which he says—
 "Ordinarily, I should think there would not be the slightest danger in starting them (the trains) at an interval of five minutes, allowing the first train to make a first stoppage at a distance of eight miles. It is quite an ordinary working of the trains. Some lines allow only three minutes." "That the Royal train (containing their Royal Highnesses the Prince and Princess of Wales) passed through Egham in the morning at 12·51, and that Lee passed through at 12·47."
 MR. CORRY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, with reference to his recent statement that a large order had been given for the manufacture of 10½-inch smooth-bore Guns for the Navy, throwing a spherical shot of 150lb., Whether the Admiralty will consider the advisableness of having those Guns rifled on
 337
 MR. MONTAGUE SMITH  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the buildings and sheds used for the Superior Courts of Law and Equity, and to the inadequate accommodation afforded by them. He had hoped to be spared the necessity of directing notice to this grievance, as last year the Government intimated that some steps would be taken to remedy it; but the introduction of their promised measures was still delayed. The House took great interest in the discussions relating to picture galleries or museums for the exhibition of art, but he was sure the country would think it of much greater importance than spending money even on such desirable objects that the courts in Which justice was administered should be made worthy of the nation. The state of made worthy of the nation. The state of the Courts of Law was as bad as it possibly could be, and the word "sheds" fairly described many of the buildings used as courts. Last Session he called attention to this subject on account of the Second Court of Queen's Bench being obliged to close its sittings, because the Chief Justice stated that it was utterly unfit for a Court of Justice, and detrimental to the health of all attending it. In the present year the Judges of the Queen's Bench had again had occasion to complain of the places allotted to them for the purpose of exercising their functions. On a recent occasion, when a necessity arose for having a
 364 365 s. 366
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the intentions of the Government had been perfectly  bonâ fide. 369 370
 MR. COWPER  said, the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman was a good illustration of the difficulties which beset the question, and which had caused a delay that most persons deplored. The hon. and learned Gentleman spoke with great authority, and he entirely repudiated the general grounds upon which the whole of the legislation in the matter proceeded. Nothing, he said, was wanting in respect of accommodation for the Equity Courts, except two or three Vice Chancellors' Courts. But, from what he (Mr. Cowper) had been able to gather, the hon. and learned Gentleman's proposal was totally insufficient as regarded even the Courts of Equity; and with respect to the Law Courts, the wants of the profession and of the public quite prevented the Government from acceding to such a wretched piecemeal proposal. Why not, he said, adopt the scheme suggested in 1859 by Lord Chelmsford, by which two Vice Chancellors' Courts and certain chambers were to be erected? But, in that matter, he (Mr. Cowper) was content to walk humbly in the footsteps of the Earl of Derby's Government. In 1859, instead of adopting the scheme proposed by Lord Chelmsford, they appointed a Royal Commission upon the question of concentrating the Law Courts. The Report of that
 373
 MR. COWPER  said, that he had stated from the beginning that the Government did not intend to select any particular architect, but meant to have a general competition.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said he rose, pursuant to notice, to call attention to the subject of Recruiting for the Army. The question was one of the highest importance and demanded the utmost consideration of the military authorities, inasmuch as the fact was notorious that enlistments had been gradually decreasing for the last few years, and if something were not done to check the downward course it was obvious that the efficiency of the army would be seriously impaired. He held in his hand a Return, which showed that a great falling off had taken place within a few years in the number of men enlisted. In 1860 the number enlisted in the United Kingdom was 21,664, but in 1863 the number was only 6,924, and in the year before that
 388 s. d. d. d. 389 390
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he was glad the hon. and gallant Member had called the attention of the House to the subject, as it would give him an opportunity of removing the misapprehension which seemed to prevail in the public mind regarding it. The Returns of men enlisted at the various recruiting stations to which reference had been made no doubt showed that a considerable decrease had taken place since 1860. These Returns, however, were confined to the recruiting stations, and did not embrace the number of men who were enlisted at head-quarters. If in 1861, 1862, and 1863 the number enlisted at the stations was extremely small, it was because more men were not wanted, as the strength of the army was being gradually reduced. There was, therefore, as far as these Returns were concerned, not the smallest ground for alarm. That was the first year since 1860 in which there had been any pressure whatever in supplying the demand for recruits. A large body of men would be entitled to their discharge, and it was no wonder if the recruiting machinery, which had during the last year or two become rather rusty through disuse, should not be capable all at once of meeting the requirements of a sudden emergency. It therefore became necessary for the Horse Guards to issue fresh instructions on the subject; but there was nothing in the Horse Guards' Circular at all of a novel character. It was intended only to remind officers in charge of recruiting parties of various things which were formerly well known, but which had been somewhat forgotten of late years, owing to the limited operation of the system. He did not think that there was the slightest ground far apprehension as to the number of men required for the army that year not being obtained, as the increased efforts consequent upon the issue of the Circular had proved entirely successful. In the end of the last and the beginning of the present year the Commander-in-Chief and the military authorities in charge of the recruiting department were rather afraid that there might be difficulties in raising the establishment to its proper figure. The number of recruits, however, for whom
 391 s. s. d. s. 392
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he wished to refer to an item of £1,796, being the "balance of expenses of the special mission of the hon. H. G. Elliot to Greece," and another item of £1,000 for an outfit allowance to the "hon. H. G. Elliot, Her Majesty's Minister at Turin." The initials were the same, but those two items occurring in one year could hardly refer to the same person. He wished to know whether the Dromio of Athens and the Dromio of Turin were the same persons?
 MR. DAWSON  said, that the Presbyterians of Ireland were not a rich body, as, except in the case of a few places, the great bulk of Presbyterians consisted of persons whose means were too limited to enable them to provide for themselves the means of religious instruction. The grant was in accordance with a compact and a practice long established, since James I. induced a number of Scotch families with their ministers to emigrate to Ireland.
 MAJOR STUART KNOX  complained that the hon. Member for Finsbury had again insulted the Presbyterians of Ireland. He wished to know from the noble Lord at the head of the Government whether he had given a favourable consideration of the application for an increase of the grant?
 SIR HERVEY BRUCE  observed, that the Motions for withdrawing this grant from the Protestant Nonconformists in Ireland originated not with Irish, but with English Members. It was said no other class of Dissenters received an endowment from the State. The Presbyterians in Ireland, however, stood on a different footing from other Nonconformists. The three denominations in Ireland received national grants; why should not the religious body in question? He should support the Vote.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he wished to move, at the end of the clause, a proviso to secure the payment of certain pensions due to British subjects. The pensions to which he referred were charged as an offset against the remission of £4,000 under the Bill, and his Amendment provided that the sum should not be remitted until the salaries were paid.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that if the Government made an improper use of their power that House was not bound to ratify it. He hoped the Committee would be no parties to such dishonesty, and he asked them to condemn the conduct of the Government with regard to it. Those gentlemen had subscribed for years to a fund;
 404
 MAJOR HAMILTON  said, this country was bound to give the3e officers security for their pensions. The pensions were granted under a stipulation that these officers should not be employed by the English Government, and that had been carried out. He loped the Committee would be no party to such a fraud.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he differed from the Chancellor of the Exchequer as to the length of time those gentlemen had served. Many of them had passed half their lives in our service. We were parties to the seizing of the fund which guaranteed their pensions, and should now take care that they did not suffer through our neglect.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he would move the addition of the first part of his Proviso only, namely—
 "Provided always that certain sums for pensions and compensations, payable to British subjects and others who were employed in the service of the Ionian Republic when under British protection, and guaranteed by the said treaty, shall be regularly paid."
 COLONEL DUNNE  said that what he desired was, that the King of the Hellenes, as our pensioner, should not be paid unless he paid our pensioners.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that he should take the advice which the noble Lord had given to him. The arrangement was for a remission of the debt to the Greek Government, and he thought that if the King was kicked out he would be very clever if he ever got his pension.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he had understood the hon. and learned Gentleman not to reflect on Commodore Wilmot's conduct
 398
 MR. LYGON  asked, what course the Government intended to take to bring the Bill into harmony with the treaty?
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, in reply, that the right hon. Gentleman was under some misconception. What he had stated on a recent occasion was, that a large order had been given for 110-pounder rifled guns for the navy, and that likewise a certain number of 10-inch guns were in preparation, some of which were already on board the  Royal Sovereign.
 LORD HOTHAM  said, he wished to know whether the Government had decided as to the choice of an architect?
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, it appeared that, as soon as the schools had trained the officers, and as soon as the Canadian Government had got round them the organization of the militia, and as soon as the Canadian Parliament had proceeded to vote sufficient supplies, then by that time the militia would be in existence. But his fear was, that the emergency would be a little too pressing for such a lengthy process. The right hon. Gentleman and Earl De Grey agreed that our forces ought not to be scattered, but that with the exception of a certain number of posts they were to be massed in Montreal and Quebec, in neither of which cities he believed were any fortifications
 382 383
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, that the House and the country would be disposed to concur in the principles which the right hon. Gentleman had just laid down, and to be of opinion that the line of policy which he indicated that it was his intention to take was the safe one for this country to adopt. But his fear was, that the right hon. Gentleman and the Canadian Government were not sufficiently alive to the exigencies of the period in point of time. No doubt if they all lived long enough, and if peace should last as long as they hoped it would between the United States and this country, the measures which he had sketched out would bring a satisfactory solution of the difficult question of the local defence of Canada. But his fear was, that the right hon. Gentleman's plan contained the germs of great delay, and the right hon. Gentleman's tone made him fear that he was not sufficiently alive to the great promptitude necessary, and the imminent risk of dangers which no one liked to contemplate. The right hon. Gentleman began by describing the preparations which the Canadians were making for defence. As he understood the right hon. Gentleman, the Canadians were contemplating a training college and a militia.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he would move that the Chairman report Progress.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, that after what had just fallen from the Chancellor of the Exchequer he should recommend his hon. Friend to withdraw his proviso. The right hon. Gentleman said that there
 407
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, if he understood the right hon. Gentleman he asked the House to consent to a treaty, when the Crown of England was already so unconditionally pledged that if the consent of the House was refused a breach of faith would be incurred. He could not understand how any decision of that House upon a question proposed to it by the Government could be determined in one way or another by the argument of a breach of faith. With regard to the liberal provision made for those gentlemen, it might be a liberal provision if the money were paid; but if not paid it could not be called a liberal provision. If the faith of England were pledged to the payment, it would, indeed, be a liberal provision; but with the faith of Greece pledged it was quite another thing.
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he would beg to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, in reference to Return No. 267 of this Session, "Established Church (Ireland), number of livings in each diocese in Ireland, value of living, &c." Whether the net annual value of each living which is given was exclusive of the glebe house and land, and whether in the possession of the incumbent or let to tenants?
 MR. AYRTON  said, he desired to bring under the notice of the House a matter of considerable importance, bearing in mind the precedent it involved, and the effect it might have on their future proceedings. In 1832, after the British Government of that day had adopted the decisive policy of establishing the independence of Greece, they determined, in conjunction with Russia and France, to afford such material assistance to the new kingdom as might enable it to organize a regular Government. In fulfilment of that design, a Convention was entered into between those three Powers for the purpose of enabling Greece to raise a loan sufficient to meet the financial necessities of that country. By that Convention it was provided that a sum of 60,000,000f., or about £2,400,000, should be raised by way of loan in three separate instalments. The first was to be raised immediately; the other two as the circumstances of Greece might require. The Government of that day took care that the Convention should preserve to the House the opportunity of expressing its judgment on the transaction, and, accordingly, while the Emperor of Russia bound himself at once and unconditionally to guarantee one-third of the loan, the constitutional sovereigns of France and England only bound themselves, the one to recommend to the French Chambers, and the other to recommend to Parliament, the expediency of giving a similar guarantee. Some three or four years afterwards, in 1846, a question arose whether the British Government were bound to guarantee the second and third loans, if the other Powers did not adopt the same course; and the Government of that day, instead of taking it on themselves to decide the question, applied to the House of Commons for an Act to amend the original proceeding and to resolve the doubt. From 1832 to the present time no less than £977,000 had been paid out of the Consolidated Fund on account of the Greek loan. The treaty undoubtedly contained provisions for the repayment of the loan, which was to be a first charge on Greek revenues, but until the year 1847 the Greeks did not pay anything. In 1848, the attention of the Government having been called to the fact, some pressure was put upon that country, and about £40,000 was paid on account of the advances they had received. Greece
 357 358 359 360
 MR. AYRTON  said, the discussion which had just taken place would illustrate the state of things which he had endeavoured to bring under the notice of the House, when hon. Members were too absorbed in another matter to attend to anything else. The House found itself in this ridiculous position, that when anyone got up to express his opinion he was told it was most impertinent to do so. The Chancellor of the Exchequer exhibited an instance of Chinese politeness. He offered a Bill for the consideration of the House, with the clear understanding, however, that the House was not to consider it at all. That was evidently an unsatisfactory state of things, and the Chancellor of the Exchequer, knowing it to be so, had said he hoped it would not occur again, and he was good enough to suggest that there were precedents—which were very bad precedents—in accordance with which the Government had acted. But if the Government had acted as it ought to have done, in fulfilment of the pledge given by the right hon. Gentleman, he would venture to affirm that the House of Commons would never have consented to pass the Bill before them without some provision by which the money to be paid to the servants of the Crown would be made an antecedent charge. But in the position in which the House was placed he believed they had no alternative but to pass the Bill, as Her Majesty had entered into a treaty by which her faith was pledged.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that the treaty made it a personal dotation, and gave it to the King for his life. Her Majesty's Government had confined it to his reign, and had put an interpretation upon the treaty which the King would not have placed upon it.
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, he was unable to understand what could be the obstacles to the introduction of the Bill on that subject. The dilatory pleas which had so often been put forward were hardly becoming, and the Government ought not to give reiterated promises if they had no  bonâ fide
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  stated that the diplomatic expenditure, so far from having remained stationary, had been increased under every head. The present Vote, for example, had been raised since 1851 from £16,800 to £37,000. It would be far better to give our representatives abroad a fixed sum for house rent than to provide them with embassy houses. He was of opinion, moreover, that many embassies, particularly in Germany, might be suppressed with advantage; and he complained that our Minister Plenipotentiary in Prussia had been elevated to the rank of an Ambassador with a corresponding increase of salary. In these days of railways and telegraphs it was no longer necessary to maintain large diplomatic establishments in all parts of the world. At the smaller courts all we wanted was a mere charge d'affaires instead of large and expensive diplomatic establishments. The cost of the embassy at Wurtemberg was £3,000; Saxony, £3,300; Hanover, £4,000; Bavaria, £5,000. It was high time that there should be a reduction in this expenditure. He would support the Motion for the reduction of the Vote.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, the only result would be that the Government would be obliged to economize and husband that sum of £180,000, and pay the expense of the diplomatic service out of it. This was the only way in which they could prevent this large increase of expenditure.
 MR. LAYARD  thought the hon. Member was mistaken in his view as to the increase of expense on account of the embassy houses. The practice of taking these establishments for a series of years was found to contribute both to convenience and economy. He hoped the Amendment
 395
 MR. LAYARD  said, the subject which the hon. Gentleman had brought before the House had given considerable trouble to Her Majesty's Government and to Lord Lyons. He was not aware that the particular case described by the hon. Gentleman had been reported to the Government; but Lord Lyons had informed them that those restrictions had been imposed upon vessels going to Jamaica and the West Indies. The opinion of the Law Officers of the Crown had been taken on the subject, and it was to the effect that the restrictions were illegal and vexatious. As for requiring that goods which had been landed at a neutral port should never find their way to the Confederate States, there was no doubt that those terms were altogether beyond the competence of the United States Government to impose, and in consequence of the representations of Her Majesty's Government those restrictions had in many cases been removed. One or two of those cases were under the consideration of the Law Officers of the Crown, and instructions would be sent to Lord Lyons to make strong representations to the United States Government on the subject.
 MR. LAYARD  said, his hon. Friend had brought the question forward during several Sessions, but he begged his hon.
 394
 MR. LAYARD  said, there was no practicable mode of effecting the object which the hon. Gentleman had in view. The treaty was in specific terms, and the Bill merely ratified the treaty. It was not possible to add the present proviso to the treaty, as it would be a breach of good faith.
 MR. LAYARD  said, that Commodore Wilmot was an officer of the greatest humanity, who had devoted a great part of his life to the welfare of Africa, and had undertaken a perilous journey to Dahomey for the express purpose of getting the King lo give up the slave trade, and put an end to the barbarous "customs." Unfortunately, he arrived at a time when the great annual ceremony was performed, at which human beings were sacrificed. His object was not to break with the King, but to obtain a personal influence over him; and in this Commodore Wilmot had succeeded. His (Mr. Layard's) impression was that Commodore Wilmot was not present at any of those scenes, and he would certainly have looked with horror on anything of the kind. His visit had some result, for the King released some unfortunate captives who were taken by the Commodore down to Lagos, and there had their liberty given them. Commodore Wilmot had received no remuneration in respect of this mission, and he was entitled to every praise for the courage, humanity, and devotion he bad exhibited in Africa.
 MR. LAYARD  said, that Mr. Elliot was sent to Athens on a special mission, and was afterwards appointed to Turin. These items contained the necessary expenses, and referred to the same person.
 MR. LAYARD  said, that the sums allowed for chapels depended upon the number of British residents in the different places. The charge at Constantinople was rather large for diplomatic services, but he believed that the expense for the year following would be decreased by nearly £2,000.
 MR. DISRAELI : I quite agree with the noble Lord that it would be very inconvenient if the House on this occasion were to enter into a general discussion respecting the transactions that have taken place between Denmark and Germany, and the policy of the English Government with regard to them. One of the reasons why I now rise is to remind the House of the exact position which it occupies at this moment. As far as the negotiations of Her
 352 a laugh 353 Cheers Cheers Viscount PALMERSTON: Not a bit. Renewed cheers 354 loud cheers Cheers Cheers cheers cheers Renewed cheers 355 Laughter and cheers. Loud cheers. précis Loud cheers.
 MR. ADDERLEY,  who had given notice to move—
 "That in the opinion of this House it is inexpedient that detachments of British troops should be stationed upon exposed posts on the Canadian frontier unless adequately supported by Canadian Forces"— 374 Trent 375 376 377 378
 MR. SELWYN  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman, in his narrative of the reasons which induced the House to reject the former proposal, had overlooked one or two great difficulties which were felt at the time. He had also been very much surprised at the description which he gave of the Suitors' Fee Fund as a fund that belonged to nobody, and was the property of the public. Without discussing that question, he would assert that if the origin of the fund were considered, the
 371 372
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, in reply, that the recommendations of that Committee had reference to matters of various kinds, and not immediately connected with each other, and it would probably be convenient to introduce several Bills to carry them into effect. He had directed the Report to be sent to the different Boards of Guardians, with the view of ascertaining if there were any practical difficulties in the way of adopting some of the Amendments proposed. He should shortly be in a position to inform the House what course the Government would adopt with regard to the Report. At all events, if he could not introduce any Bill this Session he should be prepared at the earliest moment of the next Session to introduce a Bill on the subject.
 Mr. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he would remind the noble Lord that in his estimate of the dangers to which Canada
 384 385
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he entirely agreed in the statement and language of the Motion—
 "That it is inexpedient that detachments of British troops should be stationed upon exposed posts on the Canadian frontier, unless adequately supported by Canadian Forces;" 379 "Sound in principle, calculated to have a most beneficial effect on the present efficiency of the militia force, and to create and foster in the future a taste for military pursuits among the population." "The schools for the instruction of the militia officers are working well. The officers of Her Majesty's army who have charge of these schools appear to me to work with great energy and judgment, the candidates for commissions are coming forward in larger numbers than we can at the moment admit to the schools, and display great industry and intelligence in the acquisition of military knowledge; and I am very sanguine in my expectations that we shall have, before long, scattered over the entire colony, a body of well instructed men capable of commanding the provincial militia should their services be required." 380 "This decision will render it possible to concentrate the troops remaining under your command by the withdrawal of those now stationed to the westward of the very extended line of the Canadian frontier; and I am directed to inform you that Lord De Grey requests that you will take the earliest steps to effect such a concentration, as Her Majesty's Government are of opinion that it is highly desirable to retain the troops in Canada in two principal masses at Quebec and Montreal, and to diminish as far as possible the number of scattered stations in that colony other than the small posts occupied by the Royal Canadian Rifles for the purpose of checking desertion." 381
 MR. CARDWELL : I said that the training schools are actually in progress, and are training so great a number as to lead the Governor General to express a hope there would shortly be a sufficient number of trained officers to lead the Militia.
 MR. WARNER  said, he wished to ask the President of the Poor law Board, Whether he will lay upon the table of the House in the present Session a Bill to carry into effect the recommendations of the Select Committee on Poor Relief?
 MR. HADFIELD  remarked that the Vote had increased 60 per cent, although the number of the Presbyterian ministers who received it had diminished 20 per cent in the course of as many years. It was a curious fact that the only body of Nonconformist clergy who received aid from the State had diminished in number, while all other Dissenters in the United Kingdom who received no aid from the State had increased in number. He should move the reduction of the grant by the sum of £29,000.
 MR. HADFIELD  remarked that more than 4,000,000 Catholics in Ireland supported their clergy without State aid.
 MR. BUTT  said, he wanted to call attention to an item of £52 in connection with the mission of Commodore Wilmot to the King of Dahomey; and to express his opinion that no British officer should have consented to or sanctioned by his presence the horrible massacre which that gallant gentleman had witnessed, and which had been ordered by the King as a sacrifice to the spirit of his Majesty's father. The proceedings of Commodore Wilmot had outraged the feelings of a great number of persons in this country; and in asking Parliament to vote the money for the mission they really asked it to be a party to these barbarous practices. Thinking that Parliament should assert the principle that no prospect of gain from trade ought to Lave induced the representative of the Queen of England to sanction such a scene by his presence, he moved the reduction of the Vote by this sum.
 MR. DODSON  said, he wished to call attention to the inconvenient form in which the Votes for the diplomatic service were submitted to Parliament, and to the inadequate information as to the real cost of that service afforded to the House. All that hon. Members generally knew on the subject was that there was a sum of £180,000 a year charged on the Consolidated Fund for the purpose of paying diplomatic salaries, which sum was entirely at the disposal of the Foreign Office, and over the expenditure of which the House had no control. He held in his hand, he might add, a Return which showed that in the year ending the 31st of March, 1863, there was spent on the diplomatic service a sum of £111,000—the actual sum voted, he believed, being £157,000—in excess of the £180,000 to which he had alluded. In order, however, to find how that money had been disposed of, it was necessary to hunt over five different classes of Estimates, while the expenditure of some of it was to be found under the head of Consuls, some under that of Consular Compensations, and some under the head of Miscellaneous Expenditure, Now, the various items of the outlay for the army and navy were presented to the House in a consecutive manner, and he should like to know why the same course should not be pursued with regard to the diplomatic service. He objected, too, to having any portion of that expenditure withdrawn from the cognizance of the House of Commons by being charged on the Consolidated Fund, and should wish to see the whole of it annually submitted to the House for its approval. If not, the information with respect to it ought, at all events, he contended, to be supplied in an intelligible manner. The hon. Gentleman concluded by moving the reduction of the Vote by £10,000.
 MR. DODSON  said, he thought that the explanations of the noble Lord and the Under Secretary were most unsatisfactory. He would divide the Committee on the question, and hoped to be supported.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he was quite aware of the fact, but being anxious to move that its consideration be postponed to that day week, he desired to give reasons in favour of that course. The Bill had been introduced on the 17th of June, and until it arrived at the stage of Com-
 401 Geo. Will. Geo. Geo.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he had an Amendment to propose.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had rebuked the hon. Member for Stamford for not understanding the Question; he would show how little the right hon. Gentleman knew of his own Bill. The right hon. Gentleman said that the money would be paid to the King, not only during but after his reign. The words of the Bill, however, were— "It shall be lawful to pay the said sum to George I., King of Greece, during his reign."
 MR. VANCE : While we are upon the subject of our embassies, I should be glad to know who conducts in this country the relations between his Holiness the Pope and the Government of Great Britain? We had a long discussion the other night on the conduct of the diplomatic relations between this country and the Papal States,
 396
 MR. VANCE : But there is no one accredited in Rome; and yet Mr. Odo Russell conducts the relations. Who in this country has a corresponding position?
 MR. MALINS  said, he regretted the absence of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, because he wished to hear that right hon. Gentleman explain why the present state of things was allowed to continue. This was not a subject on which there was any difference of opinion. All agreed that the present state of things was disgraceful to the country. There were only two Equity Courts that were fit for the purpose, the Lord Chancellor's Court and the Lords Justices of Appeals' Court. As for the Equity Courts, no one would say that any of the three Vice Chancellors occupied a court fit for the administration of justice. And what accommodation was there for the transaction of that enormous mass of business which was referred to the Judges' Chambers? He reminded the House that four years ago, when he name down with
 367 368
 MR. L0NGFIELD  said, then in that case the Government ought to consent to the Chairman reporting Progress. He should therefore move, That the Chairman report Progress.
 MR. TORRENS  said, he thought that some explanation was required as to the expenses of the embassy at Constantinople.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that the Board of Trade had no legal authority to interfere with the traffic regulations of railways, and therefore any regulations in force could not be said to have had the sanction of the Board of Trade. Nevertheless, the Inspectors of Railways gave information to the Board of Trade from time to time on which the Board thought
 336
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would give the hon. Gentleman all the explanation in his power. He believed the hon. Gentleman had challenged the proceedings of Her Majesty's Government—first, with regard to the promise stated to have been made by them last Session; and, secondly, with respect to precedents in analogous cases. With regard to the promise, it had, he believed, been fulfilled, both in the letter and the spirit. In the record of the proceedings of the House he found that, in answer to a question put by the hon. Member for Horsham (Mr. S. Fitzgerald), he stated that the sum in question, £4,000, must, I in the first place, be the subject of diplomatic arrangement, and, as it would not be until after such an arrangement that Her Majesty's Government would be able to apply to Parliament for an Act, he apprehended they would not be able to submit a Bill upon the subject during that Session. Therefore, he stated distinctly that there would be an Act of Parliament, but that it could not be introduced until after the negotiations then pending, nor probably during the Session then drawing to a
 361 362 363
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The Motion is to postpone the older.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would not follow the irregular example of the hon. Member in discussing the details of clauses on a Motion to postpone the consideration of the Report—a very unusual Motion, he must add. The usual practice was to allow the Member in charge of a Bill to name a time, and then, if disapproved of, to object at that time to its being proceeded with. But his object in pressing the Bill was to obtain a decision of the House upon a clause which, for the convenience of hon.
 402
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would consent if the particular clause to which he had referred were sanctioned on the following day to defer the consideration of the rest of the Bill.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not know an instance in which such liberal care had been taken of the private interests of individuals. After a short term of service they found themselves in possession of incomes which were by no means applicable to such a case in this country. Assuredly the hon. Member could not intend that the private interests of those gentlemen should be mixed up with our diplomatic engagements. Her Majesty had made an engagement with other Powers to surrender a certain sum, and that was a matter entirely distinct from the case of those pensioners. Perhaps the hon. Member would say that it was only in case of breach of faith that the proviso would come into operation; but we had no right to make that a ground for not fulfilling an engagement on our part. We had solemnly engaged to give the King of Greece £4,000 a year, and any breach of faith on the part of the Greek Parliament would not in the slightest degree relieve us from the obligation of paying this personal dotation.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, if the noble Lord had been in his place in the early part of the evening he would have heard a discussion of the
 405
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it did so appear from the Bill itself, and therefore by the next stage of the Bill the error could be remedied.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he was speaking from recollection on the diplomatic arrangement, and his impression and belief was that the remission was intended as a personal dotation to the King individually. The words "personal dotation" were employed in the treaty, and the essence of the matter was that the dotation should be independent of his retaining the throne of Greece.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that such a proposal would be most inequitable. The claims of these persons was not against the King of the Hellenes in his personal capacity, but against the Greek State and Government, and it was under the custody and charge of the British Government to see it satisfied. The arrangement, however, was not with the Greek Government or the Greek State, but was an arrangement for the benefit of the King of the Hellenes personally, and attached to him irrespective of the Greek State, or of his being at the head of it. If he were to cease to be King of the Hellenes, his right would remain the same, and if the Greeks were to put him out and then refuse to pay these pensioners it would be very hard that he should not receive the money.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the alteration would not remove the difficulty.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the question was, whether or not he was right in his construction of the words "personal dotation?" The terms of the Bill as they stood were against him. His hon. Friend the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs would ascertain before the next stage of the Bill came on what was the construction that ought to be placed upon these words.
 MR. COX  denied that he had insulted
 400
 MR. COX  said, that from his experience, he was not of opinion that the Presbyterians of the North of Ireland were too poor to support their own clergy. He, as a member of the Church of England, always voted against church rates, because he did not think it was right to tax a Dissenter for the support of his Church. Therefore, he objected to being taxed himself for the support of the Presbyterian Church in Ireland.
 MR. TITE  said, in reply, that the Metropolitan Board had had under its consideration the crowded state of Park Lane, and had come to the conclusion that the
 335
 SIR FRANCIS CROSSLEY  said, he objected to grants of public money for the support of any man's religion. He believed the endowment, instead of doing good, was doing harm in Ireland. The Protestant Nonconformists in that country were able to support their own ministers, and he hoped the House would stand by his hon. Friend in resisting the Vote.
 MR. F. S. POWELL  said, he wished to ask for an explanation of the items for board wages and servants' wages at the embassies in France and Turkey. He also remarked that the Vote contained items for chapels and chaplains in France, Turkey, and Greece; but not in Russia and Spain. How was it that in a country where the Protestant religion was proscribed, no sum for Divine service was included in the Votes? When travelling abroad he found that in some places there was no Church of England. He hoped that the Roman Catholic Members of that House, who spoke so much about religious liberty and freedom of conscience, would express their disapprobation concerning the manner in which those principles were ignored in Spain.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had spoken of irregularity, but it would be found that the irregularity rested wholly with himself. There would be another opportunity of considering the grave question, whether the Resolutions adopted by the House warranted the propositions contained in the Bill; at present, all he desired to say was that the Bill had been exactly one week before the House, and from its title was not at all likely to attract the attention of the brewing trade. The right hon. Gentleman had, on the introduction of the Bill, not vouchsafed any explanation which would show to those interested in the brewing trade what the real intention of the measure was; nay, more, two or three nights ago, when explanations were asked, there was very great difficulty in getting any at all, and the explanation ultimately given was that the Bill would have no operation at all upon the brewing trade, or if it had, that it would be solely for their advantage. The Chancellor of the Exchequer shook his head, but he had heard him repeat the statement only a moment before. He had only been able to look very hastily into the Acts which were quoted in the Bill, but he undertook to say, that in one instance certainly, and he believed in a considerable number, the statement of the hon. Member for the King's County was perfectly borne out. The very first penalty dealt with in the Bill was doubled by being increased from £100 to £200. The Chancellor of the Exchequer evidently was not aware of the effect of his own Bill, or he would not have made his former statement and repeated it that evening. A cloud of statutes were dealt with in what he must call a most slovenly way, the whole English law as to brewing being extended to
 403
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he would suggest that if his hon. and gallant Friend would leave out the last line of his Resolution the National Treasury would
 406
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he would beg to ask the hon. Member for Bath, as a Member of the Metropolitan Board of Works, Whether that Board has come to any decision as to the opening of Hamilton Place to public traffic, with the view of relieving the crowded state of Park Lane?
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, in reply, that in the Return in question the net annual value of the livings was exclusive of the value of the glebe house, but was inclusive of the net value of the glebe land, whether in the occupation of the incumbent or not.
 MR. CAVE  said, he wished to call attention to a subject which was of considerable importance to a branch of colonial trade—that, namely, between New York and Jamaica. A New York firm, Messrs. Cordova and Co., had been in the habit for a considerable time of shipping provisions to Messrs. Levy and Co., a mercantile house in Jamaica, to the extent of £100,000 a year. These provisions were disposed of by Messrs. Levy in the ordinary course of business in Jamaica. These gentlemen had informed him (Mr. Cave) that they had no trade whatever with the Southern States, and it was, of course, extremely unlikely that they would ship contraband of war from the port of New York. The trade, in fact, was of a most legitimate and ordinary character. However, a short time ago, Mr. Levy, the head of the Jamaica firm and a member of the House of Assembly in that island, now in England, received a letter from his New York correspondent, dated May 28, informing him that the ship  Leonard Berry, Perilia, Leonard Berry 386 387
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the only effect of curtailing the Vote would be to starve these different missions, and prevent their performing work essential to the public service.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The hon. Member is entirely mistaken. We have no authority to misapply to this service money which is voted for a different purpose. That is for salaries, pensions, and allowances, and for nothing else. The Government would be acting against the law if we were to apply it for this purpose.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the Vote did not bear on the argument of the hon. Gentleman. It was a Vote for the contingent expenses of the different missions, which expenses were regulated by certain rules, and depended upon services performed. It did not touch salaries, but was for messengers, postages, and other things, expenses that must be incurred. The only effect of curtailing the Vote would be to deprive the department of what was required for carrying on the service of the country. The estimate in one year was founded upon the expense of the year preceding. The amount of the expenses was examined at the Foreign Office, so that no expense should be incurred that was not in accordance with some standing regulation, and for some service performed. The only result of the proposed reduction would be to prevent the service being carried on.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I rise to move that these papers be printed. In doing so, I am quite aware that there never was an occasion, probably, on which a Minister of the Crown had to make a statement—short and simple as I intend to make it—to this House of Parliament, and through it to the public, on which the feelings of the country, the sympathies of the country, the aspirations, and, I may say, the anxieties of the country, were more deeply engaged than in the question on which it will be my duty for a short time to detain the House. Sir, the sympathies which the British nation feel in the cause of Denmark will do honour to them in all time wherever they are recorded. ["Hear, hear!"] I stand here, however, not to excite those sympathies or to profit by them. I stand
 338 339 lex regia 340 341 pro tanto from the Opposition. 342 343 344 345 Opposition cheers. 346 Opposition cheers. Ministerial cheers 347 Ministerial cheers. Laughter, and ironical 348 cheers from the Opposition. Opposition cheers Opposition cheers a laugh 349 cheers cheers renewed cheering Continued cheering cheers 350 351 Renewed cries of "Oh!" laughter, and ironical cheering from the Opposition followed by counter cheers from the Ministerial Benches Cheers
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : No one that I am aware of.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I can only answer the question which has been put to me in the negative. There is no person accredited in this country to carry on diplomatic relations between the Government and the Pope.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, an application had been made for an increase of the grant, but he had not given any encouragement to the suggestion.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, that by this clause the conservators had power to levy a tariff and dues on all vessels from a boat up to a ship of the largest size. He objected to the lighters and steam tugs being made liable to a tax of this kind; and he therefore begged to move the omission of the words "lighters and steam tugs used on the river Thames."
 MR. HUTT  said, he could not agree to the Amendment. The subject had been carefully considered by the Committee, and they determined that the clause should remain as it at present stood. The Committee appointed last year to inquire into the subject of the navigation of the Thames said, that no craft were more indebted to the labours of the conservators than the barges and lighters, and this clause had been introduced at the suggestion of the Committee.
 MR. HUTT  said, he had promised to agree to the Amendment, because it had been urged that the operation of the measure would act very unfairly upon the district, but he could not but confess he had done so with regret.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he must resist the insertion of the proviso, because he regarded it as legalizing a nuisance. It was of little use to attempt the cleansing of that part of the Thames which ran through London, if towns above the metropolis were to be permitted to empty their filth into the river. If he went into the lobby alone, he would vote against the insertion of the proviso.
 MR. LOCKE KING  reminded the House that when the Bill was introduced the clause before the House was not in it. Me thought such a clause ought not to be placed in a Thames Conservancy Bill, but ought to be embodied in a general Act dealing with the drainage of the towns upon the Thames. There was nothing in the preamble which warranted the insertion of the clause.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, that as the Bill was one to protect the Thames from pollution, this clause was a reasonable one, and the insertion of a proviso which would have the effect of sanctioning the creation of a nuisance at Kingston-on-Thames was not at all justifiable. He should go into the lobby with the hon. and learned Member for Southwark (Mr, Locke).
 MR. LOCKE  reminded the House that the Bill allowed Kingston-upon-Thames to go on with its present pollution of the Thames, and only enacted that no increased sewage was to be discharged into the river. He thought the proposition was a monstrous one, and not founded in justice or right.
 MR. HEADLAM  thought that sewers legally in course of construction should share in the same exemptions as those already made, however objectionable the discharge of sewage into the river might be.
 MR. DOULTON  said, the adoption of
 417
 MR. ALCOCK  thought it would be a good thing if all the towns on the Thames were forbidden to make use of the river for the purposes of sewage; but it was unfair to come upon Kingston-on-Thames so suddenly when they had just entered into a contract which would cost them £10,000.
 MR. SMOLLETT  said, he objected to going on with this Bill at all. He did not think the Lord Advocate could have taken any course more calculated to prove the truth of what has been said, that the business of Scotland was conducted in this House in a most unsatisfactory manner. The Bill was first introduced in the middle of June, they were now in Committee upon it on the 28th; and neither upon the first nor the second reading, nor upon the present stage of the Bill, had there been any explanation given of the necessity of introducing it at all. The Bill itself was a very short and a very unpretending Bill, and might have been introduced at the commencement of the Session if the Lord Advocate had been attending to the Scotch business as sedulously as he had represented himself to have done. The Bill purported to amend an Act passed about two years ago. The Bill then passed was a sort of continuance Bill. The Lunacy Commission in Scotland was constituted about the year 1857; it was to expire in five years; so that in 1862 it became necessary to introduce a Bill to continue it. The Board consisted of an unpaid chairman and of the Commissioners—medical men—with salaries of £1,200 a year each, and the Secretary of State had power to appoint two Deputy Commissioners of Lunacy at salaries of £500 a year each; there was a secretary with a salary of
 418 "The provisions of the first recited Act in regard to the appointment of Deputy Commissioners shall be and are hereby continued until Parliament shall otherwise determine." 419
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he agreed very much with what had fallen from his hon. Friend (Mr. Smollett), and particularly as to the prevalence of a feeling in Scotland against the continuance of the Lunacy Board as at present constituted. When, however, the objections to the Bill were made known to the Lord Advocate, his hon. and learned Friend had frankly promised that the Bill should really be a continuance Bill for two years, so as to allow time for the consideration of the question. With that understanding, he hoped his hon. Friend (Mr. Smollett) would allow the Bill to pass, in order that, before the two years should have expired, there might be an opportunity of considering the footing on which the Board should continue. He must say that though the existence of such superintending Boards was looked upon with great jealousy by many persons in Scotland, yet he was not one of those who thought that parishes should be left to deal with their own lunatics in the way
 420
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that this was a mere continuance Bill. He would not on this occasion dilate on the general management of Scotch business in tills House, but he entirely denied that there was any ground for the general complaint which the hon. Member for Dumbarton had made in regard to it. He thought it would have been much better if, instead of making large criticisms upon the outside fringes of this question, he had applied himself to consider whether, during the time the Lunacy Board had been in operation, there had not been a very marked and beneficent change produced in the management of lunatics throughout the country. He was far from saying that the present machinery was perfect; but he was satisfied that no one who had taken an interest in the question would deny that they had set on foot an improved system for the treatment of lunatics which, although it might be susceptible of improvement, had put an end to a state of things which the hon. Member for Ayrshire (Sir James Fergusson) had justly said was a scandal to any civilized country. There was a good deal still to do; but much had been done. The fact was, that the Board had not powers enough under the first Act, and they were therefore extended under the second Act. It was quite true that parochial boards made their representations, and that they came up in a joint body to protest against the two medical members of the Board; but he (the Lord Advocate) was not at all prepared to say that he altogether agreed with those representations; neither did he think that the opinions of such Boards
 421
 MR. BAXTER  hoped the hon. Member for Dumbarton would not persevere in his opposition. He thought that the proposition was quite fair, and that the present system should be continued for two years, and probably in the course of that time either his hon. Friend, or some other person, would be prepared to submit to the Lord Advocate some plan for the re-construction of this Board, if any re-construction should be deemed necessary.
 MR. SMOLLETT  said, he would not persevere with his Motion; but he thought the statement of the learned Lord ought to have been made on the introduction of the Bill or on its second reading.
 MR. CAIRD  desired to ask the Lord Advocate whether the duties of the officials, to whom it is proposed to give an increased allowance, have been augmented; and whether it is on that ground that the increased allowance is to be made?
 THE LORD ADVOCATE , in answer to the question of his hon. Friend, begged to say that this Board was originally fixed on a low scale of remuneration. Of late years the annual expenses of the office had increased, and he thought the additional allowance now proposed was in every respect just and reasonable.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, that as some surprise might possibly be expressed in Scotland at the increased allowance which it was proposed to give, it might be well that it should be clearly understood that it was given on the grounds stated by the Lord Advocate. They had now on the Board gentlemen of the highest position in their profession, and it was desirable to retain them, for if they were to have such a Board, it should be composed of the best men, and of those in whom the public have confidence. The chairman of the Board is Sir John Don Wauchope, and, although he was unpaid, his office was by no means a sinecure. He had done an immense deal of service; and if the Board was to be continued with such a man at the head of it, he ought to be paid. If the Board was to be settled on a permanent footing, he could not understand why public services of the most valuable character should be performed
 423
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  wished to add his testimony to the zeal and ability with which Sir John Don Wauchope had performed his duties.
 MAJOR HAMILTON  said, he did not think they ought to pass this clause in silence. It allowed trustees and guardians of wards to acquire the property of these wards themselves, and with the leave of the Court of Session. It might happen that trustees or guardians of wards, in acquiring their property even with the consent of the Court, might do so for a fraudulent reason. He did not mean to insinuate that this would be the case, but he thought that some explanation of the clause was desirable.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that no doubt this power ought to be watchfully exercised. He thought, however, that the cases in which it would be most generally exercised were family trusts, and where the trustees were generally interested in the property. Very often a much greater price could be obtained from a person who was a trustee. Sometimes the only man who cared to purchase was a trustee, and it would be often far the best arrangement which could be made. He believed that a power of this kind could be exercised on application to the Court of Chancery; and it was intended to give the Court of Session the same power. The general rule that no trustee should become the purchaser of a trust had been found to cause great inconvenience and embarrassment in many cases, and he thought there was a general impression that this power ought to be given. As far as he was aware, he thought it would be of great advantage.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, the object of the clause was merely to authorize the purchase of property by trustees. It did not interfere with the power of the Court of Session in regard to selling. He had no doubt that in ordinary cases the Court would not consent to a sale except by public auction; but he was quite willing to consider whether the clause could not be amended in any way before the Report came on.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that formerly there was no such rule as that which now existed, and it was a very ordinary thing for the family agent to be made a trustee. It was considered that it would be of great advantage to have his knowledge and experience. Now, however, the family agent could not be appointed a trustee, without surrendering the agency of the trust. That has been found very inconvenient. He agreed that the general rule was a salutary and wholesome one; but there were many cases in which it would be extremely convenient to have the benefit of the knowledge and experience of the family agent as a member of the trust.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that as there seemed to be considerable difference of opinion, he would have no objection to postpone the clause till the Report.
 MR. PEEL  said, it would be a cause of much regret if none of the open spaces around, and, more especially, those in the metropolis, should be preserved; and he owned that it was the duty of the Government, more particularly in those cases where the intentions of Parliament had been expressed, to attend to those things. In an ordinary case, where there was an open space in which different persons had an interest, as commoners, tenants, or lords of the manor, the inclosure of such land, if it was within a certain radius of the metropolis, could not be effected without an Act of Parliament. On such an application being made, therefore, Parliament
 435 436
 MR. COWPER  said, he entirely agreed with his hon. Friend that it was most desirable that some means should be taken to preserve the commons round London from inclosure at the rate that was going on. Wandsworth and Mitcham Commons, to say nothing of Epping Forest, had been largely encroached upon; but he thought his hon. Friend would not be advancing his object by the Resolution which he had proposed. The Government was not obliged or required to suggest a solution for the difficulty which was felt in the matter. Last year an Act of Parliament was passed which threw on the Metropolitan Board of Works the duty of looking after open spaces within their jurisdiction; but he believed they had not yet done anything in the matter, and he suspected that the present Resolution, if passed, would not remedy their failure. It would be far better to appoint a Select Committee to inquire into the whole subject, and endeavour to ascertain how the difficulties now experienced could be overcome.
 GENERAL PEEL : Sir, I disagree with the opinion that the breed of horses in this country has deteriorated. I have been for at least forty years a breeder of this class of horses, and if my authority is worth anything it is certainly opposed to that of Mr. Dickenson, for I believe that we have never before bred such horses for endurance and speed as now. The hon. Member's proposal is that the grant for Queen's Plates should be put an end to, "as it no longer encourages the breed of good horses." Now, I requested the hon. Gentleman to postpone his Motion, and I did so because on the 1st of next month there is a show of horses in this town, and I believe there will be 300 hunters, forty-two thoroughbred horses, with hacks and horses of every description. I wanted the House to judge for itself whether the breed of horses had fallen off or not. In the Easter vacation I went to see two studs of horses — one belonging to a noble Lord who unfortunately did not run first but ran second for the Derby. He had thirty-six horses in training and I think eighteen of them would have carried me. I do not think I can give bettor proof of the quality of the present breeds of horses.
 445 446
 MR. PERCY WYNDHAM  said, that the attention of the country had lately
 438 "Great advances have been made in the breeding of cattle, sheep, and pigs, in every part of the United Kingdom during the last forty years. What is the case with regard to horses? Have they not retrograded in the same degree? Can the present race of horses be compared with those bred forty years since? The cart-horse, perhaps, is the only class that can bear the comparison. There is a cause for this which I shall mention hereafter. Formerly, Royal Plates of £100 each were given for competition all over England, for four-year olds, 10st. 41b.; five years, 11st. 61b.; six, and aged, 12st.; decided in four mile heats. Our horses were then the envy of the whole of Europe. These Royal Plates, for high weights and long distances, brought up our horses to this point of excellence; so long as they were so given so long we kept our supremacy; but, by some unfortunate influence the conditions were altered, and lighter weights and shorter distances allowed. From this point I date, under my own observation, the commencement of the deterioration of our thorough-bred horses, and consequently those in everyday use." 439 "A racehorse which can run three miles is worth £3,000—a half-mile horse's value is £100, which is a sufficient bribe to exercise our ingenuity to produce stout runners." "It is not to be supposed that a sane person will risk a horse worth £3,000 to run four miles under heavy weight, for a miserable prize of £100." 440 441 "When a prize of £100 was given by the Royal Agricultural Society at Battersea, the best six stallions were brought from all parts of the country, even a Derby winner, to whom was awarded the prize. Nevertheless, the object of the society was not obtained. It is not the winner of the Derby or St. Leger, a horse that will never be taken from his own stable door, that should come to an Agricultural Show, exhibit himself there, and walk off with the prize; but it is a good strong thoroughbred country stallion, that is available for the use of the ordinary mares of the country."
 MR. PERCY WYNDHAM  said, he had to thank the noble Lord for the promise which he had given, and he would withdraw his Motion.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he rose to move for an Address for a copy of any Correspondence which had passed between any Departments of the Government with respect to the granting pensions to Colonial Governors. Having on a former occasion had the honour of addressing the House on this question, which was of very great importance to a large class of public servants, he would not trouble the House at any length; but before the close of the Session, and after the answers which had been given by the Secretary of State for the Colonies, he believed the House would consider him justified in pressing the Government for a distinct understanding of their intentions on the subject. He would recal to the House one fact, and that was, that the only class of public servants who were precluded from receiving pensions or superannuation allowances for long services were the Colonial Governors. Their omission from the benefit of the Act of 1859 had been attributed to one of two causes. Either there were most important reasons for their exclusion, or else it had been an oversight, and, on the whole, he was inclined to believe in the latter solution. Three or four reasons had been given why those Governors should not be placed in the same position as other public servants. It was said they were not continuously in the service of the public; but he would ask the House if the service of our diplomatists and other
 427 428 Colonization,
 MR. FINLAY  suggested that the clause should be postponed till the Report.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he thought that the hon. Member (Mr. Wyndham) who had just sat down, and who was entitled both by descent and from personal knowledge to offer an opinion on the matter, had done good service in bringing the subject under the notice of the House. He (Mr. Newdegate) had taken a great interest in the breeding of horses for the last twenty-five or twenty-six years, and he thought there was a great change in the character of our horses; but he did not believe that that change was entirely attributable to the
 442 443
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he only wished to repeat now the pledge which he had given before, and which had been redeemed as far as time had allowed. Her Majesty's Government had carefully considered the subject, it was still being considered, and, he would add, would receive their best consideration.
 MR. FOLJAMBE  believed that the exportation of the finest young mares, which was now carried on to a great extent, had something to do with the deterioration of the breed of horses. Fifty mares had been taken from one district alone. That was indeed killing the goose that laid the golden eggs. It would be very desirable if some means could be devised for putting a stop to this export, consistently with justice to the breeders and with the principles of free trade.
 MR. DOULTON , in moving a Resolution on the necessity of preserving open spaces in and around the metropolis, said, few questions were more interesting to the mass of the industrial population, not only to those in the metropolis itself but to those residing in the suburban districts which were fast becoming connected with the metropolis. The importance, and he would say the absolute necessity, of preserving open spaces for the recreation of the people would not be denied by any one; but, in order to prove it, he would call attention to some very striking facts connected with the large increase of population in the metropolis. In 1851 the population of what was termed the metropolitan district was 4,700,000; in 1861 it
 432 433 434
 MR. LOCKE  said, he could not agree that the Government had carefully guarded the rights of the public with regard to Epping Forest, because a number of houses had been built, and gardens and grounds attached to them, upon and from land taken from the forest, and over which the public previously had a right to roam. Therefore, he said, the Government had not sufficiently performed their duty. The object of the Motion was to make the Government more careful for the future. There might be some difficulty in providing parks and open spaces in the metropolis— from what source the necessary funds should be furnished for the purchase of the land and for compensation to those whose property was interfered with; but he did not think there was any analogy between the metropolis and large towns in the provinces, because the metropolis was spread over a vast space, and comprised within a certain area between 4,000,000 and 5,000,000 of inhabitants; besides, the whole country had an interest in the capital, to which all were from time to time attracted either for business or pleasure. For these reasons it was most essential that its health and ornament should be provided for by the nation. Parliament was in the constant habit of legislating specially with respect to improvements in the metropolis; and that was a further reason why a portion of the funds should be furnished by that House. From time to time there had been encroachments round about the metropolis, which could not occur in Dublin, for instance, where the people had the Phoenix Park, and could get into the country almost immediately. A railway had been carried through the centre of Wandsworth Common, and when that had been done he presumed any other nuisance might be introduced. Tooting and Streatham had also been subject to encroachments. The Resolution was intended to promote the desirable object of preserving those open spaces which were so essential to the public health; but it would not embarrass the Government by pledging them to any particular mode of doing so. He thought the Resolution deserved the support of the
 437
 MR. MALINS  said, he was happy to hear that the question should receive the careful consideration of the Government, which in this case, he presumed, meant the careful consideration of his right hon. Friend himself, for, as he understood, there was no other Member of the Government who had any doubt upon the propriety of
 431
 MR. TORRENS  observed, that persons claiming to be lords of the manor were in the habit of laying hold of hundreds of acres in Epping Forest and elsewhere, without any steps being taken on the part of the Government to protect the rights of the Crown and of the commoners. It was high time that the Attorney General should be instructed by the Treasury to interfere in such cases.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was unable to accede to the Motion of the hon. Member for the correspondence with regard to granting pensions to Colonial Governors, and for reasons which the hon. Member would admit were to a certain extent satisfactory. It was not necessary nor desirable that he should follow his hon. Friend in the argument he had used in favour of granting these pensions; but he might state that he agreed with him that the subject should not be considered simply as a question of money, because it involved very grave considerations of a public character. The reason for not producing the Correspondence was this:—It was the desire of the Government to give the subject that full and impartial consideration for which his hon. Friend had asked. Of course it would be understood that he spoke without prejudice to the judgment at which they might arrive, but he could readily give the assurance for which his hon. Friend seemed most anxious, namely, that this subject would not be looked at as a simple question between the Colonial Office and the Treasury, in which the Colonial Office had a natural leaning towards the interests of its own servants, and the Treasury had a natural leaning towards the interests of the Exchequer. The Government would consider the case as a whole, and with all the matters bearing upon it. His hon. Friend would, therefore, see why they could not produce the Correspondence, which he might add was incomplete. He could not say that he regarded the question from exactly the same point of view as the hon. Gentleman. The Duke of Newcastle had submitted his views to the Treasury, but the state of the Duke's health had been the cause of some little delay. His right hon. Friend (Mr. Card-well) had taken the matter into consideration, and had addressed two communications to the Treasury, the latter of which he had not yet seen. When his hon. Friend said that the Colonial Governors were the only public servants who were not in the enjoyment of pensions, it should be observed how very broad was the distinction between the two cases. The Colonial Governors were not for the most part paid out of the British revenues, but out of the revenues of the colonies, and, indeed, many of those who were disposed to advocate the system of pensions for those Governors considered it as part of a larger measure— namely, that of paying their salaries in all
 430
 MR. BUCHANAN  said, the same objection had occurred to him, but he had been given to understand that the wording of the clause was borrowed from the English Act—the 24 & 25  Vict.
 MR. BUCHANAN  said, that if he were not misinformed, the practice had been, at judicial sales by the Court of Session, to offer the property by public auction.
 MR. GREGORY  said, he was also of
 447
 COLONEL SYKES  thought it was a dangerous conjunction to have an agent and trustee combined in the same person.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  was proceeding to address the House, when—
 MR. CAIRD  also objected to the clause, and hoped the Lord Advocate would be able to give them some reason why it was proposed. It did not appear to him that there was any good reason for introducing such a novel principle as that of giving powers to trustees to become themselves purchasers of the trusts which they had been appointed to administer.
 MR. CAIRD  said, the question was whether this power might not be used for an improper purpose, and he thought some clauses should be inserted providing that property which it was proposed to deal with in this way should be offered for public sale, so that the public would come in as a check. There might be advantage in giving the power which it was now proposed to give, but it should be so guarded that the trustees should not be able to take any advantage of the trust.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, that he knew that great jealousy existed with regard to this clause as it originally stood. At that time, there was no provision that the sanction of the Court should be necessary; and he did not think it would have been possible to agree to it as it then stood. The Committee would remember how jealously the Court of Session guarded the rights of wards, and he did not think there was any reason to fear that the Court of Session would not very carefully exercise the right which it was now proposed to intrust to them. Some cases had come within his own knowledge in which it would have been advantageous if trustees could have exercised this power; and, as it would be exercised under the authority of the Court of Session, he thought no fear need be entertained.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he thought this clause ought not to be passed even in its amended state. It authorized a trustee to hold an office of profit under the trust. He knew that legal authorities in Scotland of the highest kind—including the late Lord Justice General—entertained decided feelings against such a proceeding. There were decided objections to a professional gentleman being a paid trustee; I and, without any imputation, he did not think that was a position in which they ought to be placed.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he entirely agreed with the right hon. Gentleman that there were political considerations of very grave importance involved in the question, but he thought that those considerations pointed very decidedly to the policy of holding out fair inducements to men of ability to enter the service of the Crown as Governors of the colonies. Those considerations pointed to the reasonableness of the conclusion, that when the best years of a man's life had been devoted to the performance of duties of so important a character he should not find himself on his return to the country without that compensation which the other servants of the Crown obtained. Entertaining those opinions, he thought that, after the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, his hon. Friend would do well not to press his Motion to a division. Though he could wish that the language of the Chancellor of the Exchequer had been more encouraging, still he understood him to have given a pledge that during the recess the question should receive ample consideration. They had some reason to complain that it had not received consideration earlier. He had hoped that a decision upon it would have been come to during the present Session. But now that they had a distinct promise that that interesting subject should receive the serious attention of the Government, he earnestly hoped it would meet with a favourable consideration at their hands.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  seconded the Motion.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, there was no doubt the amount of money given in Queen's Plates did not afford the same inducements to gentlemen to run their horses as it did when Queen's Plates were first established. That was the practical object for which those plates had been established; but he believed that since they were established the breed of horses in this country had in no way deteriorated. In Ireland there was a universal complaint of a want of good stallions; and Admiral Rous fairly put it, that if gentlemen would club together in Ireland and this country to keep good stallions there would be no reason to fear a deterioration of our stock of horses. But he differed from the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate) in one particular. That hon. Gentleman said that no one would think of riding twenty or thirty miles now. Why he himself, only so late as the previous Saturday, rode thirty miles, and his horse displayed both ability and endurance. After the ride he probably felt much better than the horse, but yesterday the horse came out of the stable perfectly fresh. He believed that his noble Friend at the head of the Government was frequently in the habit of taking long rides, and there were other gentlemen also who preferred that sort of exercise to the railways. A sum of about;£3,500, divided into thirty-six or thirty-eight prizes, was at present given in Queen's Plates; and though it was true that one horse in Ireland and another in England had won a great number of these prizes, and that in some cases there had been a walk over, that was not a reason for making a great alteration, which would entirely do away with that enjoyment, to maintain which he thought public encouragement should be given to race meetings. His noble Friend at the head of the Government authorized him to say the Government would consider the matter with the Master of the Horse, who, he believed, regulated the weights. His noble Friend did not * 444
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, the clause gave a very considerable exten-
 426
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, this power was to be granted simply upon an application to the Court. He thought that there ought to be some protection, that it ought to be done in the most public manner, because everything ought to be done to prevent collusion on the part of the persons interested, He quite agreed that this was a very questionable power to be given, and one which ought to be guarded in every way possible.
 SIR WILLIAM FRASER  said, it was much to be regretted that the open spaces in the neighbourhood of the metropolis had been allowed to be cut up by railways. When those railways were constructed, if there had been a public officer to protect the interests of the public, in all probability they would either have been stopped altogether or forced to take another direction. Until such an officer were appointed he was afraid the recreation grounds around London would continue to be encroached upon.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I entirely agree with my hon. and gallant Friend opposite, and utterly differ from those who contend that the breed of English horses has deteriorated, I believe, on the contrary, that the horses bred in this country are better as to size, substance, and endurance than they ever were. Any man going into a racing stable, and seeing their size, their bone and substance, must ask himself what he could wish to have better in the shape of a four-legged animal. The fact is that greater pains are taken now than used to be taken formerly to force on the young horse, and bring him to a greater size at two years old than used to be the case. There is one very good test. If the breed were deteriorated, foreigners would not come to England to buy English horses. But the complaint is that more and more persons come every year from different parts of the Continent to buy English horses; and I say that is a proof that the English horse is a good one. The other day I had a deputation from gentlemen connected with the Royal Agricultural Society of Ireland, complain
 448
 LORD NAAS  said, he very much regretted that his hon. Friend had thought fit to revive a question which had been amply discussed in an early part of the
 455 Will. 456 ex officio 457
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, he wished to know whether "Punch" would be abolished by this Bill?
 MR. BASS  said, he regarded "Punch" as an institution of the country, which ought on no account to be disturbed.
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  said, that "Punch" was generally accompanied by drum and fife, which, under the Bill as it stood, might be removed on account of music.
 MR. BASS  said, that if the hon. Gentleman would introduce a clause to provide a remedy, it should have his hearty concurrence.
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, there was a more stringent clause on the subject in the Police Act.
 MR. BRISCOE  said, he was in favour of the exemption of that national pastime from the Bill.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Cavendish Bentinck) had got some Amendments on the paper which would improve the Bill, and to which the hon. Member for Derby had no objection. The hon. Gentleman had better submit those Amendments at once.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that he wished to have a definition of the phrase, "the interruption of the ordinary occupation," and to know who was to be the judge of what constituted an interruption. Was the interpretation to be left to the person who professed to be aggrieved, to the policeman, or to the magistrate? If left to the complainant it might mean anything. "Ordinary occupation" might mean knife cleaning. He was at a loss to discover the principle on which the Bill was based. There was not only the right of the person making complaint to be considered, but the right of the person complained against. The Bill seemed to aim at this—that the owner of a house had a right to regulate what was done within sound of the house. Was that an assertion of the rights of property? Some persons interpreted "rights of property" to mean the most exclusive enjoyment of it; but if the owner of a park so regarded his rights he (Mr. Ayrton) doubted whether such rights would be long respected. If the claim to remove the musicians was based on the rights of property, the Bill ought to be made conformable to the principles on which it was founded, and the owner limited to that which was annoying to him from the front of his own house to the middle of the road. What possible right could a man have to regulate every kind of noise which was within ear-shot? The public street was no more the property of a man than was the house of his neighbour. But if the right of property were not the principle of the Bill what was it? His hon. Friend the Member for Derby had circulated a little volume containing letters which had been addressed to him on the subject. Not only professors and other learned men had communicated with his hon. Friend, but ladies had also written to him, promising him if he would put down street music to play for him any evening, and signing themselves "with kind love, &c, &c." He did not wonder that the hon. Member was not proof against such appeals. Nobody could resist them. The literary  Punch Punch 469 470
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he quite concurred in the opinion that "Punch"—whether the  Punch
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he would be the very last to say that any annoyance to a person in front of his house should be allowed to continue against his will, but the Bill was simply ridiculous, since a special exemption was to be inserted in favour of "Punch." The right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down was in favour of the German bands; then it was to be assumed that he would desire an exemption in their favour. The right hon. Gentleman had a fine ear for music, and he believed had a very fine voice as a vocalist; and he cultivated his taste at the opera. Those who delighted in street music had no opportunity of going to the opera, but they took as much delight in music as those who could pay to listen to
 471
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the Bill as it originally stood would have enabled any person to remove street music simply because he did not like it, but the Bill as amended would so far alter the existing law only as to enable a householder to object to street music if it interfered with his calling. The existing law was differently interpreted by different magistrates. In the case of Mr. Babbage, it was held by one magistrate that the being engaged in abstruse calculations was reasonable cause for removal, by another it was held that it was not. The Bill, with the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman, would remove that uncertainty. It would be left to the magistrate to decide what was a reasonable interference with a person's calling to the satisfaction of the community. No magistrate would say that music could interfere with knife-cleaning, as suggested by the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets; but if a gentleman were writing his speech or writing an article a magistrate would hold, on complaint, that street music would be an annoyance. People living in a place like London might be seriously annoyed by disagreeable neighbours without any hope of redress, but there was no reason why they should not be protected against avoidable inconveniences.
 MR. BASS  said, he quite admitted the principle that property had its duties as well as its rights; but he denied the right of any man to obstruct the public highway, and who could deny that a band of musicians was such an obstruction? An hon. Gentleman told him that he lost a division because his horse refused to pass through a band of German musicians. Again, the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets was in error in supposing that the complaint against street music only emanated from a few individuals of peculiar idiosyncra-
 472
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  said, he could not help thinking that they were then engaged in peddling legislation. He admitted that some persons suffered from the evils of street music, but there were evils of greater magnitude which no one sought to remove. There were people who suffered from the rolling of carriages at two or three o'clock in the morning, and yet it was not proposed that the practice should be discontinued. He would remind the House that the working classes might have their own opinion upon that subject, but they had no opportunity of expressing that opinion. If music was to be driven out of the streets, some arrangement ought certainly to be made by means of which bands, &c, would be allowed to play in the parks.
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, that the object of the Bill was merely to give effect to the existing law. The highways were meant for the passage of the Queen's subjects, and street music in them was  printâ facie
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, he considered the subject of the Bill was not a fit matter for legislation. Moreover, the Bill was a tyrannical measure, providing for the comfort of the higher classes at the expense of the labouring poor. He would also remind the last speaker that Regent Street was obstructed by long lines of carriages whenever there happened to be anything going on at St. James's Hall.
 MR. CLAY  said, that several hon. Members seemed to think that the Bill would drive music out of the streets altogether. But such was not the case. By the Bill street music would be only removed from that part of the town where it was not wanted to that part where, according to many hon. Gentlemen, the people were anxious to enjoy it. The existence of nuisances for which a remedy was either difficult or impossible was no reason why the House should not deal with an evil to which a cure might easily be applied. Such was the case with street music, and he hoped the Bill would be passed.
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  then moved to insert in line five, after the word "shillings," "or, in the discretion of the magistrate before whom he shall be convicted, may be imprisoned for any time not more than three days."
 MR. BUTT  said, he objected to the Amendment, as carrying the penalty for a trifling offence much too far.
 VISCOUNT ENFIELD  said, he would ask the hon. Member for Taunton, whether the imprisonment proposed was not rather too severe for what, after all, might be a mistake?
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, he thought the Amendment most reasonable and intended to persevere in it. The term of imprisonment would practically be only one day, because the day on which a man went in and the day he came out were counted.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he hoped the Committee would not sanction the proposal. It would be the first time they had passed a law inflicting imprisonment in lieu of a pecuniary penalty where it was impossible for the person to know at the time that he would be liable to it or not. There was no accurate definition in the Bill by which a man would be able to tell whether he was committing an offence or not. To justify such a punishment the offence ought to be distinct and patent, and not one depending on a nice question about reasonable cause.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, that an organ grinder usually had a monkey with him, and he wished to ask whether the hon. Member for Taunton did not intend to make some provision for the monkey when his master went to gaol. Would it be sent to the workhouse?
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, he thought the monkey should be provided for at the expense of the metropolitan Members.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the Amendment gave very little additional power beyond what already existed, because now a magistrate might fine an organ-player 40 s.,
 MR. AYRTON  said, they had now come to the last provision of the Bill, which made it lawful for any constable to take into custody, without warrant, any person who should, offend as before described. After the alteration which had been made
 475
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, the chief difficulty of the existing law was, that if a householder ordered a street musician to go away and he refused he had no power to give him into custody, and the only remedy was to summon him. If therefore that part of the Bill was expunged, the law would remain as it was at present. Of what practical use was the remedy of proceeding against an itinerant musician by summons? He hoped, therefore, that the hon. Member for Derby would adhere to the most valuable power of giving the offender into custody.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, if he understood the argument of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets it was very strong. The Bill a3 it originally stood gave the householder absolute power, without any reason, to require a street musician to depart from the neighbourhood of his house, and that then, if the musician refused to depart, the offence was at once complete, and the police constable might immediately take him into custody. But the Amendments that had been introduced essentially altered the character of that part of the Bill. The demand for the street musician's departure was to be effectual law only if it was sustained by reasonable cause, and the reasonable cause was a matter for trial, not by the householder or the police constable, but by the magistrate before whom the musician was taken. It would be an infringement of the principles of liberty
 476
 MR. MALINS  said, he apprehended that the Bill would be deprived of all its efficacy if the recommendation of the Chancellor of the Exchequer were adopted. The object of the measure was to give the householder a summary remedy, and avoid the necessity of his going about to find where an itinerant musician lived in order to summon him. That Bill had been called "tyrannical;" but how was it to be compared with the tyranny of these wandering people, who, as the law now stood, at their will and pleasure might come under a man's window and render his house uninhabitable? It was necessary that the inhabitants of this great town should be armed with a summary power of abating a nuisance which had been allowed to continue too long, and as that was the essence of the Bill, he trusted that the hon. Member for Derby would not surrender it.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he thought there was a great defect in the clause. Let them take an analogy from the Game Laws. If a man was found on the land of another committing a trespass, and armed, he could not be taken into custody or removed from that land until certain questions were put to him and certain statements made to him; and it was necessary that all that should, be proved in a court of law. As the Bill had been altered, a street musician was to be required to move away for a reasonable cause, such as the illness of an inmate or some other ground; but the words of the clause would not render it necessary that the street musician should be told the reason why he was ordered away before he could be taken into custody.
 MR. BASS  said, his hon. and learned Friend was mistaken in the matter. The Bill had certainly been altered to some extent in deference to the suggestions of the Home Secretary, but if the Amendment of the hon. Member for the Tower
 477
 MR. BUTT  said, there was another provision in the clause besides that of a person being ill or being disturbed in his occupation, and that was that a musician might be taken into custody for other sufficient and reasonable cause. Now, surely that was much too indefinite, for under such a provision a person might be kept in custody from Monday to Saturday, and it might then be discovered that no sufficient or reasonable cause had been assigned.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, it was something quite new to propose that such extraordinary confidence should be placed in a policeman by giving him this arbitrary power.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that to give a constable the power of taking a person into custody was practically to withhold from him any remedy.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  observed, that if the words proposed to be left out were omitted the law would remain as at present. Offenders could only be proceeded against by summons, and when summoned to appear before a magistrate they could not be found. But he was aware of no case in which a constable had power to apprehend a person under the Metropolitan Police Act unless the offence were committed within his view. He should move afterwards the insertion of the words "within view of such constable."
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, in cases of annoyance under the Bill, the difficulty would be to find a policeman, and when he was brought to the spot the street musician would not be playing on his instrument, but probably sitting on the doorway of the householder, so that the constable could not act.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, that in an assault case, it was not necessary for the officer to see the assault; it was sufficient if he perceived marks upon the person complaining.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he would then propose the insertion of the words "within the view of such constable."
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, he should oppose the Amendment. He was greatly surprised at the quarter from which this Amendment proceeded.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, unless the words "within the view of such constable" were inserted, the constable would be called upon to act upon the mere allegation of the householder, which would be totally unprecedented and exceptional.
 SIR HERVEY BRUCE  said, that it was a very strong argument against the Bill that it would give to a board in Dublin and not to the local authorities, who knew the necessities of their districts, the power to make the proposed extension in outdoor relief. The assertion that people going into the workhouse for relief received thereby a moral stain which never could be effaced was totally unfounded, for he knew that in his part of the country the most respectable farmers continually applied to the workhouse to obtain young girls for the purpose of employing them in work at their farmhouses. He would certainly give his vote against the Bill.
 MR. ESMONDE  said, he objected to the Bill, because it would take the administration of the poor rates out of the hands of the local authorities, and rest in a Central Board of Commissioners at Dublin.
 MR. O'REILLY  said, that he had on a previous occasion dissented from the proposition for a total assimilation of the Irish Poor Law to the English Poor Law, yet he admitted that crises might frequently occur in which a more extended power of giving outdoor relief, or a means of adapting the mode of relief to peculiar circumstances which might arise, would be desirable in Ireland. The Bill before the House went to that extent only, it being a measure simply to invest the Poor Law Commissioners with a discretionary power to make modifications in the prescribed mode of relief. If the Bill should go into Committee, he would move an Amendment giving to the Boards of Guardians a discretion to carry out those modifications or not, for he thought that to the local administrators should be left the power and responsibility of administering such a law.
 MR. SELWYN  said, that the absence of
 467
 MR. BAGWELL  said, if his hon. Friend were as well acquainted with the condition of Ireland as he was with the forms and proceedings of the House of Commons he would never have brought in that Bill. If passed into law, its effects would be disastrous to the small farmers of Ireland, and most injurious to the class whom it was the object of the hon. Gentleman to benefit. The small farmers holding some only four acres and others about sixteen, or on average ten acres, would be destroyed by the Bill. The poor in Ireland were, on the whole, very well taken care of. In 1862 the total sum raised for their support was £779,682 on a valuation of £12,000,000. The dreadful occurrences which happened
 458 The Times s. s. d., d., d. s. s., d. 459
 MR. BLAKE  said, the hon. Member for Clonmel (Mr. Bagwell) had stated if his hon. Friend knew as much about the condition of Ireland as he did about the forms and proceedings of the House he would not have brought in that Bill. But he begged to say that his hon. Friend was in constant communication with the bishops and other dignitaries of the Roman Catholic Church in Ireland, who, of course, knew the condition of the Irish people perfectly well, and therefore he was quite sure that his hon. Friend was as well acquainted with the state of Ireland as he was with the forms of that House. The hon. Member for Clonmel had argued that the Bill if passed would lead to a vast increase of expenditure. But it appeared while the Union expenses in Clonmel amounted to 2 s. s. d. 463
 MR. GEORGE  said, he had at first experienced difficulty in understanding upon what principle the Bill was founded, and how it was to be carried out. Some light, however, had been thrown upon the Bill by the speeches which had been made on that occasion. It appeared that the Bill had been blindly copied from an English Bill which was passed under totally different circumstances. The intention of the Bill was to extend outdoor relief in Ireland, while the intention of the English Bill was to limit the powers of Boards of Guardians in certain cases. The hon. Member for the King's County sought to give to the Poor Law Commissioners power to make orders to extend the system of outdoor relief in Ireland; but the power given
 464
 MR. HENNESSY,  in moving the second reading of the Bill, said, he would show that the principal objection which would probably be urged to the measure—its expense—was unfounded. Very exaggerated estimates had been formed as to
 450 verbatim 451 s. d. s. d. s. d. 452 453 454
 MR. HENNESSY,  in reply, maintained that his Bill was identical with the English law in regard to outdoor relief. As to petitions on the subject he found that in 1862 there were 339, each containing a prayer for the assimilation of the law of Ireland to that of England in respect to outdoor relief. He had been supported by the majority of Irish Members who had taken part in the debate but—["Divide!"] Well, as there seemed to be a desire that he should go to a division he would do so.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he wished to direct attention to two petitions—one from Limerick and the other presented by the
 466
 MR. MONSELL  said, he regarded the present Bill as intended to introduce the small edge of the wedge with the view of ultimately assimilating the Poor Law in Ireland to the Poor Law in England. If it were desired to destroy the Irish farmer and to increase emigration tenfold, all that was necessary was to follow the course which the hon. Member for the King's County called upon the House to pursue. Mr. Senior, one of the Poor Law Commissioners, had stated that to introduce the English Poor Law into Ireland would increase the rates to an enormous extent, and be a great national calamity. The evidence of all experienced men was to the same effect, and he contended that the course recommended by the hon. Member for the King's County was not in accordance with the wishes of the intelligent classes in Ireland. The hon. Member had startled him by declaring that the authority of the noble Lord at the head of the Government was in favour of the present proposition; but he found that the noble Lord's speech, to which reference was made, was a dia-
 465 ex officio
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, he thought that both the last speakers had very much exaggerated the dangers of the measure. The principle of the Bill was purely permissive—it gave the Commissioners power under certain circumstances to order outdoor relief to be given to persons who under the present law would not be entitled to obtain it. The debates which they had had night after night in that House were sufficient to show that the Poor Law as at present administered was not capable of meeting the distress. The chief objection to the Irish Poor Law system was, its undue severity of operation, and strict adherence to the rigid rules of political economy. He would ask what would have been the state of England if in some periods of severe distress, such as had occurred in 1841 and 1848, no relief was to be given except in the workhouses? Would it not have required a large standing army to prevent outbreaks? There were many parts of Ireland where the poor were suffering severe hardships, but where there were no resident landlords or wealthy charitable people to relieve them, and where, therefore, the want of some such law as that proposed by the hon. Member was felt. There was very much less to fall back upon in Ireland in times of distress than in England. The noble Lord the Member for Cockermouth had adduced the case of Scotland as furnishing an example of the abuse of outdoor relief. But such abuse occurred chiefly in places where there were no workhouses, and therefore no means of applying the workhouse test. In Ireland, on the other hand, there were ample facilities for the application of the test. When it was first proposed to introduce the Poor Law system into Ireland there were the greatest objections to it, and the greatest fears
 460
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, that he was in favour of the principle of the Bill, but from the tone of the observations which had already been made in the course of the discussion he did not believe that it would be carried, and he, therefore, suggested that the hon. Member for the King's County should not press the measure to a division.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, the feeling of the House seemed to be so adverse to the Bill that he trusted the hon. Gentleman would not press the Motion to a division. It was quite evident that it was the opinion of the House that, after the recent legislation with regard to the Irish Poor Laws, it was inexpedient to proceed as the hon. Member now desired. The hon. Gentleman's complaint was, that the administration of the Poor Law in Ireland was not sufficiently elastic, and he wanted, therefore, to assimilate the law of the two countries and to give power to the Commissioners to issue orders to the guardians to give outdoor relief. But that would be a fundamental change in the Irish system. The hon. Gentleman, referring to the Act of 1862, which he (Sir Robert Peel) had the honour to get passed, said that it was only a trifling modification of the system. But could that be called a trifling modification which had raised the numbers who received relief under it from 3,000 to 10,000. It had been well pointed out by the noble Lord the Member for Cocker-mouth, that the 4 & 5  Will. 461 462
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  replied that no Barrack Master had been promoted in the manner indicated by the question; but Captain Forbes, a Barrack Master of the Second Class, having retired before the issue of the Warrant of 1860, had, at his own request, been recently reinstated in his position as Barrack Master in that rank.
 MR. COWPER  said, in reply, that the tramways were intended to separate the slow and heavy traffic from the fast and light traffic. He differed from his hon. Friend (Sir Joseph Paxton) in regard to the alleged inconvenience of the tramways. It was the interest of the drivers of the slow and heavy traffic to go on the tramway, because the draught was easier for the horses. It was obviously for the interest of the drivers of slow and quick vehicles to accommodate themselves to the arrangement, and he believed they generally did so. Two policemen were usually stationed on the bridge, and they reported that no obstruction of a serious character had taken place, so as to justify their interference. The police had no legal authority to compel reluctant persons to go along the tramway except on account of obstruction. They could point out that it was for the general convenience that the light and heavy traffic should be kept separate, and he had no reason to believe they had failed in their duty in that respect.
 MR. COWPER  said, that there was no tramway on London Bridge. The rule there was that the light and heavy traffic going in the same direction should take a particular side of the bridge. If that direction were not strictly observed an obstruction would arise. The police had authority to interfere the moment an obstruction occurred or when they had reason to apprehend that an obstruction would arise. There had been no such obstruction hitherto on Westminster Bridge as would justify any exercise of authority on the part of the police.
 MR. COWPER : I have, Sir, already done what is in my power to promote the comfort of the ladies by improving the ventilation by an outlet in the ceiling in that part of the House in which they are allowed to sit. But the question of the hon. Baronet opens up another matter which is not within my province. He wishes to remove a grating which I suppose he thinks is of a too conventual character for this House, I remember that some years ago this subject was very generally discussed in this House, and many hon. Members maintained that if there was an open and visible gallery for the reception of the ladies, the influence exercised by that gallery over the proceedings of the House would be such as not to be altogether desirable. It was determined that it would be better that the House should not be exposed to such an influence. Until the House has pronounced a different opinion, I must decline to remove that conventual grating, which has its uses, for it enables persons behind it to see, without being seen.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE,  in rising to move the Vote for the furtherance of Public Education, said, that the exceptional circumstances under which the Vote had been administered last year—two different systems, the Code of 1860 and the Revised Code having both been in operation—rendered it impossible to form a perfectly accurate estimate as to the expenditure for the coming year. The estimate, however, was fixed at £705,404. His right hon. Friend the Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe) who moved the estimate of last year, was under circumstances of similar difficulty to those in which he was now placed, and calculated the amount required at £804,002. In this estimate he had taken an ample margin, for the expenditure of last year was £721,391 against £774,743 in 1862, and there was, therefore, a diminution of £53,351. The reduction in the expendi-
 517 s., s. d. s. d. 518 519 520 521 "I venture to maintain that it is quite possible to teach a child soundly and thoroughly, in a way that he shall not forget it, all that is necessary for him to possess in the shape of intellectual at-
 522 523 "The grant to be made to each school depends, as it has ever done, upon the school's whole character and work. The grant is offered for attendance in a school with which the Inspector is satisfied. If he is wholly dissatisfied (Article 50), and if the reasons of such dissatisfaction are confirmed (Article 51 E), no grant is made. You will judge every school by the same standard that you have hitherto used, as regards its religious, moral, and intellectual merits. The examination under Article 48 does not supersede this judgment, but presupposes it. That article docs not prescribe that if thus much is done a grant shall be paid, but unless thus much is done, no grant shall be paid. It does not exclude the inspection of each school by a highly educated public officer, but it fortifies this general test by individual examination. If you keep these distinctions steadily in view you will see how little the scope of your duties is changed."
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  admitted that it would be more convenient and more conformable to the usual practice if the item of £16,000 in this Vote were divided under different heads. The charges of his hon. Friend on other points were not sufficiently distinct for him to grapple with them. With respect to the purchase of the fresco, he understood that the National Gallery did not purchase frescoes, and he thought the department would have been wrong in neglecting an opportunity of purchasing a beautiful specimen of this class of art when they had the opportunity of getting them at a cheap rate. So in regard to Mr. Mulready's drawings, they were copies well fitted for study in the schools, and the money paid for them had been extremely well laid out. A thorough understanding existed between the British Museum and the department at Kensington in respect to purchases. Whenever doubts arose, as must occasionally happen, whether articles ought properly to be purchased by the one or the other, in all those cases a conference took place between the two bodies. The department did not profess to purchase classical antiquities as such; but many of those antiquities bore closely on the progress of art, which progress it was their object to illustrate. It would be impossible to conduct those purchases so as never in any individual instance to leave room for hostile criticism; but the collection, as a whole, was of immense value, and if brought to the hammer to-morrow would fetch far more than it had cost.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, that the questions which he had to reply to were almost as various as the objects in the South Kensington Museum. First of all he must assure his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the Tower Hamlets, that the performance to which he referred had no connection with the South Kensington Museum; certainly the sums included in the Vote had not been applied to any such purpose. Then the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bazley) had objected
 563
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, that the library in one particular year had shown a balance in the receipts over the expenditure, and that that balance, by the authority of the Treasury, had been applied to the repair of the roads. Residences were found for four officers, and, as the Museum was open until ten o'clock at night, it was necessary to have officers upon the spot. Previous to the building of those residences, two officers were accommodated elsewhere, and that accommodation was regarded as part of their salary. The question with respect to the other two was now under consideration.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, that the money was strictly applicable to the building.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he wished to inquire whether the loan was really a dotation for life to the King of Greece or merely intended to last during the period he remained upon the throne. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer on a former evening seemed to be under the impression that the treaty was intended to confer the dotation for life; but, if so, that view was directly opposed to the terms of the Bill before the
 568
 MAJOR HAMILTON  supported the Amendment.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, it would not have been becoming to anticipate the contingency of the King of Greece quitting the throne, and to legislate for such a contingency; but if it should occur, then the House, no doubt, would be ready to fulfil in good faith the honourable engagements of this country. In the meantime what was proposed was in all respects regular, and if the contingency adverted to should occur, the remission would end. The rights of this country against Greece would then revive, and it would be necessary to make pro-
 572
 COLONEL DUNNE  observed, that what he had complained of was, that while magnificent dotations were given to the King of Greece, proper provision was not made for English subjects. He trusted that some Resolution would be brought forward declaring that in future all treaties of the kind should be submitted in due time to the House.
 MR. C. P. BERKELEY  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether a Barrack Master has recently been promoted from the Fourth Class to the Second Class without having served in the Third Class the period laid down by the Royal Warrant of 7th February, 1860?
 MR. LYGON  admitted that the system, as administered by the Council of Education, was unpopular, but that was because it had lately put itself out of harmony with
 555 556
 MR. LYGON  said, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had deprecated on a former night any difference between the treaty and the Bill, while he had now been the first gratuitously to introduce the ele-
 570
 MR. LYGON  said, he was not aware that he had done anything to justify the observations which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had passed on his conduct. The right hon. Gentleman mentioned the Foreign Department, and not the Foreign Minister, in connection with the provisions of the present Bill, and he advised the right hon. Gentleman in future not to hurry a Bill through the House and leave the discussion on it until the later stages.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he had only a very few words to add to the remarks of the right hon. Baronet. In the opinion of Dr. Woolley, whose valuable services were about to be transferred to the Admiralty from the Department of Science and Art, there existed at none of the naval ports either instructors or any of the appliances necessary for a good School of Naval Architecture. He supposed the hon. Gentleman would not demur to the opinion of so eminent an authority as Dr. Woolley. The hon. Gentleman thought it was desirable to combine the theoretical with the practical instruction. On that point Dr. Woolley said that at South Kensington the services of the most eminent lecturers in the subsidiary sciences of chymistry, metallurgy, physics, and practical mechanics were already secured, while competent instructors in the sciences more immediately professional were more readily obtainable there than elsewhere. He also said that the principle of devoting one-half of the time of the pupils to instruction in the theory, and the other half to instruction in the practice of their profession, would be kept intact in the new school. Mr. Scott Russell, whose valuable suggestion had been referred to by the right hon. Baronet opposite, after adverting to the immense advantages which the French possessed in their Naval School at Paris, which was a long way from any dockyard, and to which English shipbuilders sent their sons, said they should ask the Government to allow the young men to come to London without forfeiting their dockyard pay in order to attend the college and that in the dockyards there was now a preliminary training given for the higher instruction which should be obtained at the institution in London,
 505
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : No; the lectures will take place in London.
 LORD HARRY VANE  said, he fully concurred in the expression of regret uttered by the right hon. Baronet, that the National Society were not inclined to relax its rules, which were inconsistent with the existing circumstances of the country; but he could not agree with the right hon. Gentleman in thinking that a general system, which he believed the people would not assent to, should be attempted to be introduced throughout the country. He hoped that the right hon. Gentleman who had charge of the Department would attend to some of the remarks which were made by the hon. Member for Edinburgh, and, if possible, introduce some improvements into the system. He had no objection to the appointment of a Select Committee early next Session, nor did he think that the Motion for such a Committee could be in better hands than those of the hon. Member for Berkshire, and, therefore, he hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would have no difficulty in assenting to its appointment. He must, however, object to the notion that it was possible to abolish the present system, and substitute for it one of general rating, to the entire exclusion of the voluntary principle. He did
 550
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he would suggest that if the police had no legal
 496
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had alluded to the causes which, in his opinion, had contributed to the lull which had taken place in the ardour of the promoters of education. Without disputing the existence of some of those causes, he could suggest one cause which was more powerful than them all—he meant the unwillingness evinced in many places to go on with the great educational work of 1839, from the distrust created in the minds of managers by the treatment they had received at the hands
 524 525 "With regard to the mode of examination, the grouping by age was given up; and what was now proposed was, that instead of four standard examinations two should be added, making six standard examinations altogether, and the children were to be examined according to those standards in the manner in which the managers or masters should present them." 526 527
 MR. AYRTON  said, that up to this time he had been under the impression that the Department of Science and Art confined itself to the collection of the odds and ends which make up the exhibition at South Kensington. But it would seem that the Department was now applying itself to literary pursuits, in order to combine science, art, and literature. It had just taken a literary turn, and had published a book entitled,  Mumbo Jumbo; or, the Mountains of the Moon in the Gaboon. 562 Mumbo Jumbo; or, the Mountains of the Moon in the Gaboon;
 MR. AYRTON  said, he was afraid that the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman would not effect the object he had in view, because the Bill was founded on a Resolution of the whole House, and they
 571
 MR. BLACK  said, he might as soon find his way through  Bradshaw's Guide 545 546
 MR. BLACK  said, that in Scotland there were very excellent schools where religion was taught without reference to creed at all.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  called attention to the great increase which took place annually in this Vote. In ten years it had more than doubled. In order to test the opinion of the Committee on the subject, he should move that the Vote be reduced by £15,000, the inrease this year.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH : Will the professors be migratory as well as the students?
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, it would be in the recollection of the House, that on the discussion of the Navy Estimates a Vote was taken with reference to the proposed school, and that he, with other Members, objected, not to the estab-
 499 500 501
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that following the example set by others, he would confine his remarks to a few objections which he entertained to various parts of the educational system, and especially to the proceedings of the past year as reported in the papers just laid before the House. On two occasions he had brought under notice the course pursued with regard to the endowed schools. On one occasion he was so strongly supported by the opinion of the House, that the Government were obliged to modify their proceedings. On the second occasion, when he protested even against the modification, he believed with the right hon. Member for Droitwich, that he was only defeated by an accident. Be-
 532 533 534 naive 535 536 537
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether orders having been sent for concentrating a large British force at Quebec, steps are also being taken to put that place in a defensible state?
 MR. BUXTON  said, that less importance was to be attached to the statement of the hon. Member (Mr. Cavendish Bentinck) that the decorations were execrable, because it was pretty well known that the hon. Member was rarely satisfied with anything. Persons who were competent to give an opinion, thought the decorations were exceedingly beautiful, and that great credit was due to Captain Fowke, or to those who were responsible for them.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he was not about to enter into the history of the protracted distress which had existed, and was still felt, in Coventry and a large district
 512 513 514
 MR. PUGH  said, he wished to make some remarks with reference to that part of the country with which he was connected. He had observed with great pleasure that it was stated in the report of the Inspector in South Wales, which had lately appeared, that that country had made great progress in education, even since the Revised Code was established. It was right that this should be made known, because great doubts existed at the time whether that would be so, and whether some of the schools would not be injured. In that respect the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne had proved a true prophet; for he very kindly said, when these difficulties were pointed out, that the Welsh children were remarkable for their intelligence, and would overcome all obstacles. If there was one part of the speech which he had just made which he (Mr. Pugh) had listened to with less pleasure than another, or from which he might venture to differ, it was that part of it in which he gave it as his opinion that nothing could be done to remedy those evils of the present system which had been so forcibly depicted, whereby large tracts of country were left untouched by the Education grant. If those evils were felt in a rich country like England, much more must they be so in the remote and rural districts of Wales. They were forcibly exhibited in a Return moved for by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire, showing that large cities and towns absorbed vast sums, while rural districts were comparatively unprovided for. He, therefore, hoped that something would be done to take their case into consideration, and if it was found to be irremediable, the managers would then have the satisfaction of thinking that their grievance had been fairly inquired into. They had no wish to get any of the public money for nothing—
 557 "Pater ipse colendi Haud facilem case viam voluit;"
 MR. CARDWELL  said, in reply, that what he had stated was that orders had been sent to Montreal and Quebec to concentrate the forces. With regard to the fortifications of the Colony, the Secretary of State for War had recently received from Canada a Report as to the state of the defences. That Report was now under the consideration of the military authorities; but his noble Friend (Earl de Grey) was not prepared to announce any determination upon it at present.
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, that anything more discreditable to art than the decoration of the building did not, in his opinion, exist in this country. Great dissatisfaction also existed with the purchases made On account of the Museum; but it seemed impossible to find anybody who was responsible for them. Last year a sum was voted for the residences of officials connected with the Museum. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Lowe) then said, that when the officials were lodged in those houses there would be a deduction from their salaries corresponding with the annual value of their houses. Had this arrangement been carried into effect?
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  asked if any part of the £15,000 was to be applied to the decorations?
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he was almost at a loss to conceive what was the cause of the apathy observable on a question of such great importance. During the last hour the Benches opposite had been occupied by only three hon. Members, although the Vote under consideration involved an expenditure of £1,300,000, while the Ministerial side of the House could only show a number which he would not specify lest it might be a provocation to the arrest of public business. He believed the apathy was caused partly by the deadening effect which money granted by the State invariably produced, and he was of opinion that it would be much more satisfactory if the State would leave education alone.
 MR. HUNT  said, he proposed to move that the House do disagree with the Amendment introduced by the Lords in Clause 5, and he asked the House to do so with the more confidence, because it had on a previous occasion passed his own Amendment by a considerable majority. The clause, as it went up to the Lords, was to the effect, that if any holder of a licence from the Secretary of State, who should be at large in this country, unless prevented by illness or other unavoidable cause, failed to report himself to the police within three days after his arrival in England, and subsequently once a month at such places and in such manner as the chief officer of police should appoint, he should be guilty of a misdemeanour. The Lords had struck out the words "once a month," leaving the question whether the ticket-of-leave man should report himself at all after his arrival, to the terms and conditions of his licence. The form of licence in the Bill contained no such condition, and therefore the Lords' Amendment would reduce the clause inserted by the House of Commons to a nullity. It was true the Home Office had power to grant licences in a new form, but those licences would not apply under the terms of the Bill. The alteration in the Bill in the House of Lords was made under peculiar circumstances, for two decisions were come to. On the first occasion the House of Lords affirmed the decision of the House of Commons. On the second occasion they negatived that decision, but the attendance was much smaller than on the former occasion. In support of the opinion which he had expressed, he begged to refer to a Report which had been laid on the table within the last two or three days, in which it was stated, with respect to the prisons in Ireland, that the number of reconvictions had not increased within the year, and that the practice of registration and supervision continued to work advantageously; and the Report further stated
 567
 MR. MOOR  inquired, whether the Government supported the Resolution of the House of Lords that the holders of tickets-of-leave should report themselves to the police once a month?
 MR. BUTT  observed, that it was the practice of the Crown every day to surrender debts to its own subjects.
 MR. SPEAKER : According to the rules of the House, no Question or Amendment may be proposed which is the same in substance as any question which during the same Session has been resolved in the affirmative or negative. The original Minute of Council deducted the amount of the endowment from the grant in all cases. The amended Minute of the 11th of March made no deduction from small rural schools, but withdrew the grant from the schools in towns. The right hon. Member for Staffordshire objected to this amended Minute and to this distinction between town and country schools, and on the 2nd of June moved a Resolution in these words—
 "That this House, having considered the Minute of Council of the 11th day of March, 1864, on Endowed Schools, is of opinion that it does not meet the objections made to the Minute of the 19th day of May, 1863." "That in the opinion of this House the mode in which it is proposed by the Minute of the 11th of March to make grants to Endowed Schools, and the distinction made by the same Minute between Endowed Schools in the country and in towns, is unsatisfactory and unjust." 498
 MR. HENNESSY,  referring to the statement that Ireland was not fairly treated in respect of this expenditure, said, that among the successful candidates for the Queen's medals in the Science Examination of 1863 were, in physics, Joshua Doherty, a student of the North of Ireland, who carried off the gold medal, and Cornelius O'Sullivan, a student from the South of Ireland, who carried off a silver medal. In chemistry the gold medal was won by Richard Geogan, and a silver medal by John Conolly, both students of the South of Ireland. In geology the silver medal was
 564
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he would, by permission of the House, withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he must remind the right hon. Gentleman that he told the House the other night that the Bill ought to be in exact accord with the treaty, and that the House could not consequently consider any alteration in it. The arrangement was a kind of marriage settlement between the young King of Greece and his kingdom, and as marriage settlements were drawn with provisions that contemplated a separation and protected the interests of the lady in that event, so ought the settlement to protect the interests of the King. As the Court of Russia had no Parliament to consult, it would pay £4,000 a year to the King of Greece during his life, and so would the Emperor of the French. Because, however, the English Government had to submit the treaty to the House of Commons, the Bill was drawn in such a way that the £4,000 a year was only payable during the King's reign. Her Majesty's Government had inflicted enough pain already on the family of the young King. He would, therefore, move as an Amendment that the Bill be re-committed with the object of substituting the word "life" for "reign," so as to make it agree with the treaty.
 MR. HUBBARD  said, that he was desirous of putting a Question to the Chancellor of the Exchequer with the view of clearing the honour and character of a public servant. On a former occasion he had referred to a document emanating from the Inland Revenue Department as a proof of the demoralizing effect produced by the operation of the Income Tax. That document, dated the 1st of March, 1849, directed the collectors who received the drainage rent charges in Scotland not to suggest to the payers that they were entitled to allowances for Income Tax, but to make the allowances only in case they should be asked for. He had chacterized the document as discreditable, and he understood that Mr. Fletcher, at the head of the Inland Revenue Office in Edinburgh, feared that he might be supposed to be involved in the censure then expressed. He, therefore, wished to state that he had been informed that Mr. Fletcher, so far from being implicated in drawing up that document, had taken the earliest opportunity of remonstrating against its tenour, and had suggested that the instructions should be reconsidered. He believed that they were reconsidered and withdrawn, and he, consequently, thought it right to I state what had come to his knowledge I with respect to Mr. Fletcher; but he regretted that in a matter of this kind, when I character was at stake, there should not be the possibility of acquitting every one; of the public officers concerned with the document, and he would be glad to see all of them eagerly rush, one after the other, to disclaim any responsibility with regard to the document in question. He was unwilling to fasten on any one the responsibility of a paper so discreditable. Holding
 515
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he wished it to be understood that he made no attack on the officials. It was the system which they had to administer that was to blame.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, that the Department took to itself more credit than belonged to it, because in the majority of cases the people were not attracted by the travelling museum, but attended for the purpose of seeing the fat pigs, fine horses, and beautiful short horns.
 MR. MAGUIRE  thought the Vote required the grave consideration of the Committee. He denied, in the most emphatic manner, that the collection at the Kensington Museum was an advantage to the country generally, and he appealed to the Members of the Select Committee whether what he had stated was not correct? It was professed that the travelling museum, consisting of a very few objects of very little value, was sent to England and Scotland to promote a taste for art; but it was a very ingenious but not ingenuous proceeding of the authorities, to send the exhibition to Dublin at the time of the Agricultural Show, and, although it did not attract in the face of the superior attractions of the cattle show, to take credit for bringing the people to the Irish capital. The provinces had been starved in order to make a raree show of the Kensington Museum. He hoped his hon. Friend the Member for Galway would next Session probe this evil to the bottom.
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  seconded the Motion.
 MR. WALTER  said, it was not his intention to move any Resolution on that occasion in the direction of those which he had moved in the last year and the year before; nor should he trouble the Committee with many remarks. But he wished to take that opportunity of saying that, even on the showing of the Privy Council, the great inequality which still existed in the distribution of the Parliamentary grant was most unsatisfactory, and deserved the serious consideration of the House. He also wished to give notice, that should his right hon. Friend the Vice President of the Department and himself be in their respective places in the following Session, he would move for a Select Committee to inquire into the circumstances of the unassisted schools and the best mode of bringing them within reach of the Government grant. He thought it could not be considered satisfactory that there should still be 10,961 parishes without annual grant schools. The Privy Council in their Report had tabulated the parishes throughout the country, and had divided them into four classes—namely, the parishes with upwards of 5,000 inhabitants; the parishes with less than 5,000 and more than 1,000 inhabitants; the parishes with less than 1,000 and more than 500 inhabitants; and the parishes with less than 500 inhabitants. Of the parishes with more than 5,000 inhabitants 91½ per cent, according to the Report, contained one or more annual grant schools. Then, by tacking on the next class of parishes—those with less than 5,000 but
 528 529 "I noticed in several of the Reports of Her Majesty's Inspectors for last year complaints as to pupil-teachers' grammar, and in a former Report I also called attention to this point. I regret to add that I do not think them improved in this respect. As a body they have no notion, I will not say of composing (the term is too exalted), but of making any simple statement, describing any intellectual process, as of the operations in arithmetic, answering any question, either orally or on paper, in a short, clear, grammatical way. Their papers generally, indeed, disclose far worse grammatical faults, from which they do not get free even in their fifth year—at least, very often—while they retain also strange idioms of their own." 530 "I think my girls have all been most tried in the institution. I have had nine there, and all have come away with their constitutions greatly shattered with the exception of two. I do think the study there is quite too much for any young person to bear. Some of them left me quite strong, and came back completely worn out in mind and body." "My observation at Hope Street has convinced me that the work which our pupil-teachers have to perform is excessive, and that the majority of young men cannot stand such work without injury to health, while not a few are deterred from becoming pupil-teachers by a knowledge of what they would have to perform. If by the present system you secure a higher standard of literary acquirement, it is, I believe, often at the cost of that freshness and elasticity of spirit without which there can be little sympathy with children, and no great success in the imparting of knowledge." "On the whole, it seems that pupil-teachers are likely to disappear, or be reduced to a very small number, confined, probably, to a few town schools. There is no evidence as yet that they will be replaced to anything like the full extent by second or assistant masters. The causes are chiefly two—the increased scarcity of candidates and the still greater scarcity of funds. It is in vain to tell managers that the pupil-teachers will pay for their stipend by the increase of the grant; the answer is conclusive; on the one hand it is more than doubtful whether the services even of a good pupil-teacher will increase the grant by £10, which is equivalent to twenty-five children passing in all subjects; on the other hand, this is at least uncertain, and school committees are seldom in a position to incur certain liabilities on the strength of contingent, not to say improbable, income." 531
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he did not consider it was the business of the Government to teach science and art, and they certainly had proved that they were not competent to do it. He did not think our collections of pictures and of articles of art should be frittered away between the National Gallery, the British Museum, and the establishment at South Kensington, He would have a National Gallery worthy of the nation, and then would send all the pictures to the National Gallery and all the works of art to the British Museum.
 MR. HASSARD  differed from the hon. Member for Dungarvan (Mr. Maguire), and contended that the travelling museum in Ireland had been the source of much gratification to the people of that country, and had more than paid its cost.
 MR. HASSARD  said, he was of opinion that it would be useless to re-commit the Bill, which was in perfect harmony with the treaty. If he understood the right hon. Gentleman, it was intended to make a personal dotation of £4,000, no matter whether the King should continue on the throne of Greece or not. But the treaty dealt with him exclusively as King of Greece. How was the matter to be carried out if he should cease to be King of Greece? How was the money to be secured to him? There would be no other way of doing it but by coming to that House.
 MR. TREHERNE  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the injury which the staple trades of Coventry have suffered, and are still suffering, from the operation of the Commercial Treaty with France, and to ask the Government, Whether they will use their influence with the French Government to obtain the same free admission into France of English Rib-and and Watches as is accorded by that Treaty, on the principle of Free Trade, to French manufactures of a similar description in England? His constituents were still suffering so much from the consequences of the French Treaty that, although labouring under infirm health, he felt it to be his duty no longer to delay bringing their case under the notice of the
 506 507 508 valorem
 MR. TREHERNE  said, the right hon. Gentleman had misunderstood him. He had alluded to an agitation which he had heard was going to be got up in the spirit of free trade.
 MR. LOWE  said, that some injustice had been done to the officials of the South Kensington Museum, because perfect responsibility existed there. For the purchases the President and Vice President
 565
 MR. LOWE  said, that situated as he still was in regard to this matter, he would very
 551 552 553 554
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : All he could say was that it was an advantage to the riband makers of Coventry to have free trade in paper. He deplored the distress which prevailed in Coventry, and if any representation which could be made would have a tendency to mitigate that distress, such representation should have his support. But although there was a duty upon ribands imported into France, that duty was not very low. The French Government had adopted the policy of entire freedom of trade in the import of goods into France; but while they retained a duty on manufactured goods imported into France, it could not be said that the duty was very large. For instance, on velvet ribands it was 5 per cent,  ad valorem; ad valorem; ad valorem. 511
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, it was quite true that it had been repeatedly urged upon the Government that they should exert their influence with the Government of France to procure a better market on the Continent for the cheap ribands manufactured at Coventry. His hon. Friend, however, had made a remark in which there was much force—namely, that the Coventry manufacturers, in their turn, must submit to the application of the prin-
 510
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  had great pleasure in answering the Question, as far as regarded the character of Mr. Fletcher; but he confessed he was sorry that his hon. Friend had thought it necessary to give utterance to the highly fanciful doctrine that the vice of the document he had referred to had actually affected the moral tone of the officers of the Inland Revenue Board. When he first heard that doctrine he thought it might have been broached in the heat of debate, and he regretted to find that it was the hon. Member's permanent and serious conviction. The fact was, that the Board of Inland Revenue made a mistake, to the effect of requiring that the burden of applying for the deductions should be thrown on the parties, instead of the deductions being allowed at once without application; but to imply that that proceeding had a connection with any moral deterioration was a wholly unnecessary and gratuitous assumption. It was simply an error, and nothing but an error; and it was in the' nature of Revenue Boards, as it was in the nature of all persons engaged incessantly in business, occasionally to make errors. His hon. Friend could not have been so fortunate as never to have made a mistake.
 516
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that his interpretation of the treaty had been supported by the Foreign Department. No doubt the treaty contemplated the dotation for life. Why,
 569
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken exhibited that confusion of mind not unusual with him at that time in the morning. He had not thrown the responsibility upon the permanent officials of the Foreign Department; on the contrary, when he spoke of the Foreign Department he spoke of the Foreign Minister, and he took care not to separate himself from that Minister, because he stated that he concurred in what he had done. Neither had he "gratuitously" introduced the personal matter with respect to the King of the Hellenes. It was not a gratuitous introduction, but was a statement of the case absolutely necessary to remove a misapprehension which might still exist in the mind of the hon. Member, but had been removed from that of the hon. and gallant Gentleman who had introduced the subject. The case was this:—There was a claim of the British Government on behalf of certain British officials against the Government of Greece, and the hon. and gallant Gentleman (Colonel Dunne) said, "We will connect it with an engagement to relinquish the £4,000 on behalf of the King of Greece, so that if the claim be not satisfied the King of Greece shall suffer;" but it was his (the Chancellor of the Exchequer's) duty to show them that the two parties were perfectly distinct; that if the Government of Greece did not fulfil its obligation, that might be a reason for taking measures to compel them, but could be no reason for withholding from the King, in his personal capacity, the sum of money to which he was entitled independently of the question whether he was King of Greece or not. Therefore it was in necessary connection with the subject in debate that he had introduced the matter.
 MR. GREGORY  said, he did not intend to go on with his Notice for calling attention to the management of the institution at Kensington. If he were to call attention to the improper manner in which the purchases were conducted, according to the latter paragraph of his Notice, he must ask for a Committee of Inquiry, and at that late period of the Session he should not be willing to serve upon a Committee of Inquiry himself, nor should he find it easy to induce any other hon. Gentleman to do so. He hoped, however, that the Vice President of the Education Committee would look into the matter during the recess, and that it might be unnecessary for him to demand such an investigation next Session. Meanwhile, he could not refrain from calling attention to some portions of the Vote now before the Committee. In one item, the amount of which was no less than £16,000, a whole host of subjects—examples, diagrams, objects of art, catalogues, &c.—were huddled together in a manner which gave facilities for manipulating the public money in a way I that should not be tolerated for a single day. The whole item might as well have been put at once under the head of "etceteras." He wanted to have each item set clearly and distinctly before the Commit-tee, so that every one could ascertain at a glance what sum had been spent on each object of art, and what was the exact amount of expenditure under each head. He was asking for nothing out of the way, or what was not required from any other Department. Nothing could be clearer, or more correct, than the manner in which the Votes were taken for the British Museum, and he saw no reason why the same plan should not be followed in the case of the Kensington institution.
 558 559
 MR. GREGORY  asked, whether the sum voted for the library had been expended entirely upon it?
 COLONEL W. STUART  wished to know if the hon. and learned Baronet had ever seen the beautiful collection of pictures in the Vatican at Rome? Because a great many of these pictures had been taken from their owners by the French and afterwards given up to the Papal Government. That Government had not restored them to the original owners. In keeping them was it, according to the hon. Baronet, a receiver of stolen goods?
 COLONEL SYKES  directed the attention of the Committee to the fact, that there were large items to be voted which it was not fair to charge to the Science and Art Department at South Kensington. There was £47,000 for Schools of Art in the United Kingdom. The item for buildings had increased from £11,000 to £24,000, and the grant for the Royal Dublin Society had increased by a sum of £700.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, that at the Kensington Museum there were a number of beautiful specimens of Italian art, and he should like to know how they were come by. That Museum always reminded him of the shop of a receiver of stolen goods. He was afraid that many of the beautiful works there were the fruits of what was called the "moral sup-
 560
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, that, the idea of the hon. Member for Edinburgh (Mr. Black), that there might be a religious education without creeds or anything denominational in its character was impossible of realization. The hon. Gentleman suggested that the children should read the New Testament; but there were many texts of the New Testament as to the meaning of which the children might inquire, and of which it would be impossible for a teacher to give any explanation without touching upon controversial ground. Religion entirely freed from denominationalism would sink into mere indifferentism, and indifferentism was mere Deism or no religion at all. It could not be Christianity, because that must be definite. The secular system was open to equal or still graver objections. It would be impossible to give more than the mere rudiments of instruction without raising some questions of religion. Take, for instance, the study of modern history and the great question of the Reformation. The only way to carry out such a system would be to sink religion altogether, and teach history and other things to which religious considerations were essential without those essentials, the result of which would be to lead the children to regard religion as a matter of no importance whatever. He believed that the system which existed in England, the denominational system, was the best that could be adopted; and one proof that it was so was to be found in the fact, that the National system of Ireland, which was based upon a diametrically opposite principle, had by the force of circumstances been compelled to adopt to a great extent the denominational form. Any attempt to restore to it its original character would make it to a great extent inoperative. They ought to be thankful for the denominational system in England, and the more the Irish system was assimilated to it in that respect the more satisfactory it would be.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER : Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that in the House of Lords ladies sit in an open gallery without any grating at all? And is this House likely to be influenced by the ladies when they do no harm in the House of Lords?
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether, for the purpose of providing for the due ventilation and comfort of the Ladies' Gallery, he will give directions for the removal of the grating in front of that Gallery?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he hoped the House would agree to the Amendment. He thought it a very beneficial alteration, and had been deliberately adopted after a very full discussion. It would remove the absolute bar that would otherwise exist to the ticket-of-leave man obtaining employment.
 SIR. HUGH CAIRNS  said, it was his intention to support the Motion for disagreeing with the Lords' Amendment, because if that Amendment was carried it would have the effect of altering the Irish system which had worked so well.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, I have listened with much attention to the interesting discussion which has taken place upon this subject, and I confess that I am glad to see so thin a House upon the occasion; because I do not think it possible to have a good practical discussion in a crowded House upon a question in the abstract so dry. I have no desire to enter at any length into the subject after the able speeches that have been made by my hon. Friend the Member for Stamford and the hon. Member for Edinburgh. But there are nevertheless one or two points upon which I am desirous of saying a few words. Now it appears to me that, from some cause or another, the present system of National Education is regarded throughout the country with dissatisfaction and distrust. I am not disposed to attribute this dissatisfaction and distrust to individual feeling, but rather to the system itself. But while I am conscious of the defects of the system I am willing to admit that it is very difficult, after a certain system has so long existed and grown up to such an extent as the present one, to tear it up by the roots, and substitute for it another system of a wholly different character. If the evils complained of could be corrected without resorting to so strong a remedy, no doubt such a correction would be most desirable, and I cannot help thinking that the right hon. Gentleman opposite has a great opportunity before him. The whole of this interesting subject has been dealt with in a most able and argumentative manner in the Report of the Royal Commission. There is scarcely one of the defects of the system that is not boldly handled, and if the right hon. Gentleman would but direct his attention to that Report, with a determination to act as the really responsible head of the Department of Education, I believe that he would find that the recommendations of the Commissioners afforded elements for the engrafting upon the present system material improvements which would go far to correct the evils so generally complained of. I heard with much satisfaction the notice which was given this evening by the hon. Member for Berkshire (Mr. Walter), an-
 547 548 549
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON,  who had given notice to move—
 "That in the opinion of this House the mode in which it is proposed by the Minute of the 11th day of March, 1864, to make Grants to Endowed Schools, and the distinction made by the same Minute between Endowed Schools in the country and in towns, are unsatisfactory and unjust."
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  bowed to the decision of the Chair. He had not the least disposition to oppose the judgment of the right hon. Gentleman, had he thought the House would agree with him that he would be unnecessarily intruding on their time if he entered into any argument on the Question. But before he retired from the Question, there was one remark that he desired to offer, and that was that distinctly for himself, and he believed he might say for many Members of the House, he entirely refused to admit that the decision of the House was a final decision of the Question. The division was a very narrow one, the majority being only eight or nine; it was taken unexpectedly; and it could not, in any sense, be considered as testing the opinion of the House upon the subject. In his opinion, the policy of the Government with regard to Endowed Schools was unrighteous and unwise, and he thought that if any hon. Member would refer to that part of the Report of the Royal Commission which related to the establishment of these Endowed Schools he could only arrive at the conclusion, that if we had an Educational Department, with a responsible Minister at its head, it would be impossible for that Minister not to feel that it would be his duty to avail himself of the endowments, in order to improve and extend education throughout many districts of the country, and not to lend himself to the unworthy policy of saving a few thousands of the annual charge at the expense of impeding the education of the people. While, then, he bowed to the decision pronounced by the Speaker, he thought it impossible that this subject could be left where it was; and in the next Session of Parliament he intended himself, unless it was done by some other hon. Member, to revive the discussion, and induce the House of Commons to reverse its decision.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he agreed with the hon. Gentleman as to the great importance to our naval interests, that there should be established a good scientific school for the education of naval architects. The hon. Gentleman seemed to doubt whether the Government had I acted wisely in deciding that the proposed I school should be established in the metropolis instead of at one of our naval arsenals. Now he (Sir John Pakington) found himself in rather a peculiar position in having to speak for the Admiralty from that side of the House; he was bound to say that he did not share the doubt of the hon. Member on that point. In justice to himself and others he was also bound to say, that in the course of his speech the hon. Gentleman had fallen into several misapprehensions with respect to the part which he had taken in framing and promoting the scheme. Neither in that House nor elsewhere had he ever taken credit to himself for the establishment of the school. He did not presume to be competent to express a satisfactory opinion upon the various scientific questions involved, and if he had taken a rather active part in the transactions connected with the establishment of the school, he had done so solely in his capacity of president of the Institute of Naval Architects. What really led to the establishment of the school was a most able paper drawn up by Mr. Scott Russell, and read by him to the annual meeting of the Institute of Naval Architects as far back as March, 1863. The shipbuilders present on that occasion were much struck by the statements which the paper contained; but their attention was particularly attracted by the allegation of Mr. Russell, that he and other eminent builders had been obliged to send their sons to France in order to be properly instructed in Naval Architecture, as there was no institution in England where they could be trained. In consequence of that remarkable statement the Council of the Institute took the whole subject into their consideration, and the result of their deliberations was that they requested him, as their president, to enter into communication with
 503 504
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY : Will the right hon. Gentleman make inquiries as to the traffic regulations of London Bridge, and see whether the same regulations cannot be adopted at Westminster Bridge?
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether he has inquired as to the traffic
 495
 SIR JOSEPH PAXTON  said, he wished to know whether there would be any objection to lake up the Tramways, seeing that they only obstructed the traffic over the Bridge?
 SIR JOSEPH PAXTON : Before the right hon. Gentleman answers the Question, I should like to know whether, instead of the removal of the grating in the front of the Gallery, he could not remove one of the panels from behind to allow of ventilation?
 SIR JOSEPH PAXTON  said, he was unfortunately able to bear testimony to the severe distress which had existed, and still existed, in Coventry. He was unable to take quite the same view with his hon. Colleague as to the causes of that distress; but he was perfectly satisfied that the French Treaty, coming into operation at the particular moment it did, had greatly contributed to that unfortunate result. Indeed, it had had a most injurious influence, not only upon the trade of Coventry, but upon the silk trade of the country generally. He was told that at the present time at Macclesfield there were 2,000 houses unoccupied. No doubt there had been various times when the silk manufacturers of Spitalfields, Coventry, and Macclesfield had been in great distress; but the French Treaty coming into operation at the very moment when the riband trade was already in a state of great depression had greatly aggravated that distress. He argued at the time, that if the duties on the importation of riband had been gradually
 509
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  observed, that the theory of the hon. Gentleman that diminished interest was owing to the largeness of the sums voted did not hold good in all points, for they were discussing Estimates which were considerably less than those of former years. The sum they were then called on to vote was £705,000 as against £804,000 last year, and £840,000 two years ago. The decrease was no less than 16 per cent on the whole sum granted for the promotion of
 538 539 540 "Our school and its master satisfy every condition of Article 51 B, and he has, therefore, under that article, a claim upon the grant now received, amounting to £21 10 s., s. s., s. 541 542 543 544
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, the question was, whether the country schools got their fair share of the purchases? But the discussion was premature because the subject was now before a Committee upstairs, and ought to be left open until they had reported.
 MR. BAZLEY  said, that great dissatisfaction was spreading in the country at the rigid economy practised towards the provincial schools of art, while extravagant sums were given to the school at Kensington, Such an inequitable mode of distributing that Vote would not, he believed, be tolerated much longer.
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether, as by Clause 65 of his Despatch, dated the 17th day of June, No. 194, he recognizes that portion of the Report of the Commission on Memorials of the Indian Officers which stated that the organization given to the newly created Staff Corps has, contrary to the Parliamentary Guarantee, caused extensive supercession of the Officers remaining with their regiments; and as by paragraph 66 he admits that a complete remedy for this superces-
 614
 SIR JAMES BLPHINSTONE  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether the opinion of Vice Admiral Fitzroy, President of the Meteorological Department of the Board of Trade, has been taken as to the winds and currents which prevail in the Mid-Atlantic in the months of July, August, and September; and, if so, whether he will lay that opinion upon the table of the House; he might say, in explanation, that Admiral Fitzroy presided over a Department which had the winds and currents particularly under their consideration;—and whether the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty are aware that the facts set forth in Captain Maury's Trade Wind Chart for the month of August are in every respect opposed to the information given to the House by the noble
 616
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONB  said, he wished to know, Whether the noble Lord will obtain the opinion of Admiral Fitzroy, and lay it upon the table?
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he did not agree with the right hon. Gentleman in the satisfaction which he expressed with reference to the centralized power. They were unanimous in Ireland in their wish to manage their local affairs themselves. In his own county they were most anxious to have the appointment of the governors, or some of the governors, because they wanted to check extravagance; but though he had been many years a Member of Parliament, the Irish Executive had taken care that he should have nothing to do with the management of the Lunatic Asylum in his county. He desired to draw attention to one point,
 639
 MR. GRANT DUFF : Sir, the Commission to whose Report I wish to call, or rather to recall, the attention of the House, was appointed on the 5th of May, 1854, and reported on the 10th of August, 1855. During that period, and for some time after it, the mind of the country was so wholly engrossed by the Russian war, that it had no time or thought to spare, even for matters so closely touching its daily life as those to which the present Lord Chancellor and other Members of this Commission hardly less distinguished had been devoting so much of their scanty leisure. The Report, which goes to the root of the question, as to what guarantees society has a right to demand for help in legislation, as well as for the intelligent and efficient administration of the law, treats of the discipline of the property and of the educational system pursued in those great and ancient institutions, the Inns of Court. With regard to the first of these subjects, I shall say nothing, because it is already in other hands. With regard to the second, I shall only say what every one will agree to, that it is a most truly lamentable thing that so large an amount of gross revenue as that possessed by the Inns of Court should produce such a very small amount of available
 640 Hansard 641 642 643 "At this moment there are few of the systems of legislation, either of ancient or modern times, which are not in force as living law in the British Empire—Menu and Mohammed, beside the civil rights of the Hindoo and the Mussulman, and an appeal from India compels our Privy Councillors to consult the Koran and the Puranas as authorities at Whitehall. In the Norman Isles, the severed portions of the domain of the Conqueror, the barbaric custumal framed by his justiciars still guides the grand bailiff and the seneschal who dispense the equity of Rollo, now forgotten, in the hall of Rouen. Canada cherishes the volumes which have been cast forth from the Palais de Justice, and the legitimate representatives of the proud and learned Presidents of the Parliament of Paris are found in the court-house of a colonial town. Banished from the flowering meadows of the Seine, the ordonnances expounded by St. Louis, under the oak tree at Vincennes, constitute the tenures of land on the Gulf of St. Lawrence. In the opposite hemisphere, we bestow an equal protection upon the Codes of Napoleon. Our Sovereign appoints her alcaldes and her corregidores in the Indies of Columbus, while her landrosts in Southern Africa are guided by the placets of the departed Republic of the Netherlands." 644 645
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he understood the hon. Member who had brought forward the question not to make any attack upon the Inns of Court, but only to complain that they had not carried out the recommendation of the Royal Commission, that a candidate for the bar should pass a preliminary examination before being admitted. He would remind him that with respect to that question a good deal could be said on both sides. He confessed that his own inclination was in favour of compulsory examination; but there were reasons which influenced the benchers in arriving at a different conclusion, and which were still to a great extent under consideration. It should be borne in mind that all who were called to the bar were not necessarily practitioners, or persons who intended to practise. Many only intended to qualify themselves for performing their duties as magistrates, or as chairmen of Quarter Sessions. He might instance many Members of that House, among whom were some of its
 647
 MR. PEEL  said, that the hon. Member, in complaining of the Government for not carrying out the Recommendations of the Committee, had not made allowance for the difficulties in which they were placed; but if the course they had adopted had not been satisfactory to the hon. Member, it had satisfied the House. In February last year the House voted an Address to the Crown, praying it to give directions that no sale to facilitate inclosures should be made of Crown lands or forestal rights within fifteen miles of the metropolis. The recommendation of the Select Committee, however, was that the lands should be inclosed, and that the rights of the Crown in Eppitig Forest, which were merely those of keeping and hunting deer over open spaces, but which prevented inclosure as long as it remained, should be sold. In this conflict between
 650 651 "Their Lordships are even more unable to act upon the second alternative proposed by the Committee" (that now recommended by the hon. Member). "Parliament, by the Act 14 & 16  Vict. Vict. Vict. 652
 LORD BURGHLEY  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether he can explain the statement which appeared in  The Times "The Danish Plenipotentiaries were instructed to accept the line of demarcation of the Schlei, and to agree to a fortnight's prolongation of the armistice should England firmly adhere to that line. Earl Russell promised that neither would he make a proposal himself, nor support the proposal of any other Plenipotentiary which would be less favourable to Denmark, unless Denmark herself should consent to such new proposals. Earl Russell nevertheless proposed, in the sitting of the Conference on the 18th, that the question should be submitted to arbitration, although Denmark did not consent to this proposal."
 MR. PEEL  said, when that portion of the business of the Commissioners which arose under the Church Building Acts was transferred to their management by the 19 & 20  Vict.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the opposition to the Vote showed how inconvenient it was that the Church Building Acts had not been consolidated. If that had been done, the charge in question might have been removed.
 MR. PEEL  stated, that the item for English and Irish Law Courts was to pay the expense incidental to the Commission appointed to consider the expediency of assimilating the practice and procedure of the Irish Law Courts to those of the English Law Courts.
 MR. PEEL,  in reply to Mr. Torrens, said, that the working of the Malta and Alexandria line had been twice interrupted, once in last year and again in the present year; but the cable had been repaired, and the line was now in good working
 658
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  asked, Whether there was any provision made for the contingency of the Thames Embankment costing far more than was contemplated by the Metropolitan Board of Works. In that event, how would they raise the additional sum required?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  apprehended that they must come to Parliament.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that 4½ per cent was the rate of interest at which the Metropolitan Board of Works would be able to borrow without the guarantee of the Government. With that guarantee they could borrow from the Bank of England at 3¾ per cent.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he
 662
 MR. T. J. MILLER  said, the great value of that measure was, that it would save the metropolis the difference between 4½ and 3¾ per cent interest on the money raised for this work. It was a matter of comparative indifference to the Metropolitan Board of Works, whether the money was raised at 4½ or 3¾ per cent; but the great object which that Board had in view was to effect the greatest amount of improvement in the metropolis at the smallest expense to the inhabitants generally. There could be no doubt as to the security for the repayment of the loan.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he could not admit that it was a matter of indifference to the Metropolitan Board of Works whether they raised this money at 4½or 3¾ per cent, and that it would only affect the ratepayers. The hon. Member for Bath (Mr. Tite) the other day stated before the Committee on Subways that the rates of the Metropolitan Board of Works had reached their utmost legal limit, and consequently the Board could lay no heavier rates on the metropolis. It had also reached its utmost legal limit in borrowing. But by the present measure it would obtain a larger sum than it otherwise could do for carrying on certain works. The boon granted by the Bill would be a boon entirely to the Metropolitan Board of Works, and not one to the metropolis at all; and unless the House were satisfied that the money would be wisely expended, and that those persons would obtain the contracts who sent in the lowest tenders, he did not think that additional powers ought to be given to that Board.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the House need not then concern itself with the question, whether the tenders were properly taken or the estimates sound? Their security was based first on the wine and coal dues, and, se-
 663
 MR. KINNAIRD  asked, whether the right hon. Gentleman would not take some step for carrying out his own most fair suggestion—that the taxation for these improvements should be shared by those who would permanently benefit by them?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thought the time had not come when a proposal of that kind should be made.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  maintained that, as this measure would enlarge the borrowing powers of the Metropolitan Board of Works, the Government ought to take care that the money was likely to be wisely and economically applied.
 MR. PEEL  said, the condition of the cemetery at Varna was such that it had become necessary to go to some expense for an inclosure. As to the case of Mr. Morrin, he was aware that charges of inaccuracy had been brought against his work; but it was not a question on which the Treasury could form an opinion of their own. It had been arranged that the Master of the Rolls in England should appoint two competent persons to inquire into the matter.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, that two years ago the prevalence of small pox in sheep excited great alarm in certain districts of England, and the Government appointed two most experienced and competent gentlemen, Professor Simonds and Dr. Marsden, to inquire into the matter.
 MR. PEEL  said, that a number of gentlemen in the West of Ireland having represented to the Government that the inundations had been increased by the works executed by the Shannon Commissioners, the Treasury, though they did not concur in that view, agreed to appoint Mr. Bateman, the eminent engineer, to inspect and report upon the works. Mr. Bate-man's expenses were to be paid by the Government; but there was a distinct understanding with the gentlemen at whose request the inspection had been made, that any works which Mr. Bateman might recommend should be undertaken by the landed proprietors at their own cost. The Report of Mr. Bateman, which was an able one, bore out the view which all along had been taken by the Treasury, and showed that the works executed by the Shannon Commissioners, so far from having aggravated had mitigated the evils complained of. Mr. Bateman had recommended additional works, which would cost £250,000; but he had not heard what steps the local gentry had taken to have those works executed.
 MR. PEEL  said, that whatever objections might be offered to the oaths and declarations to which the hon. Member referred, there was nothing antiquated in the present declarations. As far as he knew, there was no declaration at present in force of an earlier date than 1828, when the old declaration against Transubstantiation was repealed, and another form of declaration enacted instead. In the same manner the old oaths of allegiance, supremacy, and abjuration were repealed in 1858, and a short oath appointed in lieu of them. The mistake which the hon. Member made was in supposing that because those oaths and declarations were repealed, therefore the original Acts imposing them were also repealed. That was not so; the Acts remained in force, and they had to be read as if they contained the new form of declaration or oath. He very much agreed with the hon. Member in his desire to see the repeal of the Acts themselves; he did not believe that any of the security which the Church or State had enjoyed during
 665
 MR. HADPIELD  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, that the House was placed in a very remarkable position. Early in the evening the right hon. Baronet (Sir George Grey) declined to answer a question asked by his noble Friend the Member for Northamptonshire (Lord Burghley) with reference to Denmark, in the absence of the noble Lord at the head of the Government; and now no reply had been given to the speech of the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford. The right hon. Gentleman the other Member for that University was on the Treasury Bench, and he was perfectly astonished that he had given no
 675
 MR. AYRTON,  who had given notice to move at the end of the clause to add these words—
 "Provided he shall have been truly informed by such householder of the circumstances under which he is required to depart, and shall be given into custody by such householder," 681
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, a lady might be engaged in her domestic duties, and a German brass band with twenty performers might come to the window and blow a terrific blast. By the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman she would have to state to each performer why she wished them all to go away. They perhaps would be unable to understand English, and she might not be able to speak German. Well, then, the Amendment provided that the notice should be given to the musician by the householder. Why the householder might not be at home, and in that case the musician might play as long as he liked.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the Amendment was altogether unnecessary, because the present law provided that a person playing an instrument in the street, to the annoyance of an inhabitant, could be ordered to remove, and if he refused he could be summoned.
 MR. LOCKE  said, it was quite obvious that the right hon. Gentleman had misunderstood the Amendment. As the clause now stood it was altogether unnecessary that any communication should be made to the musician. If the Amendment were not adopted it would be left to the caprice I of any one to direct a policeman to take a street musician into custody.
 MR. CLAY  said, he could see no objection to an Amendment requiring that the musician should be informed by some person in the house of the reason why he was told to withdraw. But it was utterly unreasonable to provide that the householder should perform that duty, for the householder might be absent, or might be laid up by illness.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he was ready to alter the Amendment by providing that the person who told the musician to retire should state the reason for his so doing.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  thought that the Amendment was a reasonable one.
 MR. LONGPIELD  also supported the Amendment.
 MR. WHALLEY  complained of the arbitrary conduct of the metropolitan police, and said the Bill would largely increase their power.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  then moved at the end of the clause to add—
 "Provided that the person making a charge for an offence against this Act, shall accompany the constable who shall take into custody any person offending as aforesaid, to the nearest police station-house, and there sign the charge-sheet kept for such purposes."
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the proviso was already contained in the existing law.
 MR. WALTER  thought there was an ambiguity in the clause which required explanation. At present the words seemed somewhat invidious. He had no objection to bands being required to remove upon being warned; but from whom was the warning to come? If from the householder he should not object, but if it was intended that any person passing along the street should have the power to order the removal of a band, he should certainly object to such a power. He had noticed that bands near public houses were generally tolerably good bands, and not mere barrel organs. He could not but suspect that the words were intentionally ambiguous, and certainly they would enable a person passing along the road to order the removal of a band.
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, that the only effect of the insertion of such a clause in the Bill would be to render their legislation ridiculous.
 MR. CLAY  said, he hoped the Committee would assent to the clause, and afford the necessary protection to an innocent amusement.
 MR. HUNT  said, he believed the Bill would not in any way interfere with  Punch and Judy.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that if  Punch
 MR. BASS  said, he had no wish to oppose the clause.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  did not think the representation of  Punch and Judy
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : We are quite satisfied with the opinion of our own Hydrographer.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  replied, that the Admiralty had not consulted Admiral Fitzroy; they had consulted then-own Hydrographer. With regard to the latter part of the Question of the hon. Baronet, he had to state that the Admiralty regulations for the transport of the troops, so far from being in opposition to Captain Maury's views, were in exact accordance with them. Captain Maury's work gave the average passage of more than twenty sailing vessels for every month in the year for a distance of 820 miles on both sides of the line, and the result was that in the month of August, when the variable winds prevailed, the passage was made at the rate of 120 miles a day, and in March and November at the rate of 140. so that no great delay might be expected,
 LORD JOHN MANNERS : The right hon. Gentleman says that when he spoke the other day he expressed only his individual opinion, and did not speak as the organ of the Government. I suppose that he has to-night again spoken in his individual capacity, and consequently, up to the present moment, we have not been favoured with the opinions of Her Majesty's Government upon this Bill. But who, let me ask, is the Member of Her Majesty's Government who speaks to the House upon this subject merely in his individual capa-
 674
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, the House had been taken somewhat by surprise, and had come to a division earlier than had been expected owing to the remarkable policy of Her Majesty's Government. It would be remembered that the Government were in a position of some embarrassment on account of the course taken on the second reading of this Bill. When the Bill was passing the second reading the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department, who he saw had now returned to the House, and the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer supported the Bill, and the ground they gave for supporting it was, not that they agreed with the Bill as a whole, or in its most important clauses, but that they objected to the principle of indiscriminate resistance, as they were pleased to call it; and they told the House that, although they should like to see certain alterations in the Bill—such as the striking out of the clauses that allowed those who were not members of the Church of England to vote in Convocation—still they should support the Bill for the sake of other clauses of very inferior importance
 671 Cries of 672
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, he rose to call attention to the present condition of the territories claimed by the Hudson's Bay Company, and to move an Address for Copies of all Correspondence which had taken place between the Imperial and Canadian Governments respecting the Western Boundaries of Canada, and of any Memorials forwarded to the Colonial Office from the inhabitants of the Red River Settlement. He did not propose to enter into the question of the rights of the Hudson's Bay Company, which had so often been the subject of inquiry in Parliament. It was generally admitted, he believed, that the territory claimed by the Company, comprising 1,500,000 square miles, was granted by a charter of Charles II. at a time when it did not belong to the British Crown. It was now admitted that in 1670 the vast territory now claimed by the Company was
 617 618 "While fully admitting the force of the above arguments, and the immediate necessity of some
 619 "Before deciding finally upon the course to be pursued, he desires to place once more the question before the Hudson's Bay Company, with a sincere hope that on a fuller consideration they may see the expediency of modifying the determination which your letter announced. Where on all sides interests so great and various are concerned, the wisest and most dignified course will be found, as Sir E. Bulwer Lytton has on previous occasions pointed out, in an appeal to and a decision by the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, with the concurrence alike of Canada and of the Hudson's Bay Company. If the adoption of such a procedure be advantageous to the interests of all parties concerned, Sir Edward cannot but think it would be particularly for the interest of the Hudson's Bay Company. It would afford a tribunal pre-eminently fitted for the dispassionate consideration of the questions at issue; it would secure a decision which would probably be rather of the nature of an arbitration than of a judgment; and it would furnish a basis of negotiation on which reciprocal concession and the claims for compensation could be most successfully discussed." 620
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  explained that what he had meant was merely that Canada was ready to be responsible for a large proportion of the cost of establishing telegraphic and other communication across the continent.
 MR. NEATE  said, that the difficulty of dealing with the Inns of Court was that they claimed to be associations of private individuals, and repudiated all responsibility. They denied that there was any process for compelling them to discharge their duties. In fact, they might be described as squatters upon the legal constitution. They had acquired title by prescription. He had the honour of being a member of one of the Inns of Court, and he had had a good deal of correspondence with them. When a man had once become a member of one of the Inns of Court, it would not allow him to withdraw without requiring him to enter into an obligation which it had no right to impose. Now, if a man wished to renounce his privileges in an University he had only to write to the bursar of his college to take his name off; but a man was not allowed to retire from an Inn of Court without entering into a covenant that he would not practise anywhere as a barrister.
 MR. NEATE  rose to address the House; but the cries for a division were so continuous, and the confusion so general, that the hon. Member sat down without proceeding.
 MR.NEWDEGATE : Did I understand the noble Lord to say that the line of the Schlei and Dannewerke was the line proposed by Earl Russell and supported by the neutral Powers?
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that he had given no pledge to adopt the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Memorials of Indian Officers, for the simple reason that the Commissioners had carefully abstained from making any recommendations at all. They only stated what they considered to be the interpretation of the Parliamentary guarantee in regard to the organization given to the newly-created Staff Corps, and the alleged supercession of the Officers remaining with their regiments, and he frankly accepted that opinion. But that guarantee had no reference whatever to the employment or pay of the Officers, and therefore when the Officers of the local Army received brevet rank, he considered that this was a sufficient fulfilment of the guarantee in their regard, although the brevet rank carried with it no additional pay. The rank given to regimental Officers in respect to length of service had no connection with substantive rank in the Staff Corps. All the Officers in the Indian Army, whether of the Staff Corps or not, would receive their army rank in respect of length of service. The Officers of the Indian Army would stand in exactly the same relative seniority to each other as they did on the day that the Staff Corps was formed. With regard to the Ordnance Brevet rank being only local, he thought that the Ordnance Corps in India had received greater advantages than almost any other corps, and that they had not the slightest grievance to complain of.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he would offer no objection to the production of any papers that remained of the copious Correspondence already presented on the subject. He trusted, however, under these circumstances, that his hon. Friend would not expect him to enter at length into the question she had raised; for if he were to go through the whole history of the matter, he would enter a territory as vast as that of the Hudson's Bay Company. In 1857 a Committee of that House, which had been appointed to inquire into the subject, recommended that Canada should be permitted, if she thought proper, to annex the territories in question, so that they might thereafter form a part of the Canadian possessions; and acting on that suggestion the Colonial Secretary submitted certain propositions to Canada and to the Hudson's Bay Company. The Government, acting under the advice of the Law Officers of the Crown, felt it was impossible to dispute the validity of a charter which had existed for two centuries; but they made the very suggestion alluded to by his hon. Friend—that the question of the western boundaries of Canada should be referred to the decision of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council. The Hudson's Bay Company assented; but Canada demanded that the Privy Council should consider, not merely the question of boundaries, but the whole validity of the charter. To this proposition the Company naturally would not consent. The noble Lord who was then Colonial Secretary was succeeded by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Hertfordshire (Sir E. Bulwer-Lytton) who, under the advice of the Law Officers of the Crown, informed the Canadian Government that if they wished to
 626 scire facias 627
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he agreed with almost all that had fallen from the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary, and that no unfortunate people were better taken care of than the lunatics of Ireland. He thought, however, that the taxpayers ought to have some control over the appointment of governors and medical officers.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, that the item of £982 constituted a large expenditure for the repairs and inclosure of the British burial ground at Varna. With regard to the sum of £315 10 s. d. Calendar of Patent and Close Rolls in Ireland
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, the agreement between the proprietors and the Treasury was that the former should pay for any improvements which Mr. Bateman might recommend, and which had not been included in the works which the Shannon Commissioners had been appointed to carry out; but it had never been intended by the proprietors that they should pay over again for what the Shannon Commissioners were bound by their contract to perform.
 COLONEL FRENCH,  in reference to the charge for an inspection of the drainage works on the banks of the Shannon, said, he wished to ask a question on the subject. The Shannon Commissioners had spent a sum of £300,000 in deepening the Shannon. On the ground that the works executed by that Commission were to effect
 659
 MR. DOULTON  said that, having regard to the Resolution come to the other evening respecting open spaces, the proper plan would be to appoint a Committee to inquire into the subject, and the present matter would then properly form part of the inquiry, and he should move early next Session for such a Committee. His object was to preserve the forest in its wild and uncultivated condition, because that formed its greatest attraction in the eyes of those for whom it was desirable the forest should be preserved. If the Motion of the hon. Member for Finsbury had gone to a division, he should certainly have voted against it, not only because it was antagonistic to the vote of the other evening, but on account of the expense of laying out this park, and also the annual cost of the maintenance of a park of 7,000 acres. The proper course was to refer the matter to a Select Committee, to investigate not only the open spaces and commons in the neighbourhood of the metropolis, but also the state of Epping and other forests. The
 655
 MR. HADFIELD  said, the objection to the consolidation was that the new parish churches should be thrown upon a church rate.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he had an Amendment to propose. The Bill itself, which, contrary to usual practice, had been circulated among Members, was a perfect curiosity. It recited no less than twelve Acts of Parliament, most, if not all of which, he believed, had been repealed by subsequent Acts of Parliament. Among them was the 25th of  Charles 664 Charles
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he must press his Amendment.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, the Ecclesiastical Commission ought to be able to pay
 657
 MR. LYALL  said, it was not true that the Hudson's Bay Company had sent out telegraphic wires for the purpose of connecting Minnesota with the Red River Settlement, and thereby increasing the influence of the United States in the Hudson's Bay territory. The Directors who came into office a year ago took into consideration the subject of communication between Columbia and Canada in association with the question of communication with China, and they had sent out wires for that purpose. But certainly if Canada were not prepared to do her part in overcoming the natural difficulties of the country between her and the Red River Settlement, it would be necessary for the Company to connect their telegraph with Minnesota, from which they were only distant about fifty miles. With respect to the new government of the Company, they were by no means disposed to retard colonization; they waited, however, for roads and other communications; and it was felt, moreover, that greater powers than were given by their proprietary charter must be obtained by the Company in order to establish good order in the settlement. The whole subject was under the consideration of the Colonial Office, and he trusted that
 628
 MR. PEACOCKE  preferred wild forests to tame parks, and would rather see Epping Forest kept in its present wild state by asserting the forestal rights of the Crown than that portions of it should be inclosed in the manner proposed. It was far more enjoyable for residents in the neighbourhood, and for visitors from London in its existing condition; while, as a question of economy, the 7,000 acres still uninclosed could be purchased for £30,000, and at least £70,000 or £80,000 would be required to lay down 100 or 150 acres, in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. The right hon. Gentleman said it would be an expensive process to act upon the Crown forestal rights and to abate inclosures; but this he looked on as a frivolous excuse. Did the right hon. Gentleman imagine that no corresponding expense would be entailed upon the encroachers, or that any person would like to engage in a lawsuit with the Crown? Moreover, if the Crown were successful in one suit there need be no apprehension that other suits would follow. The inclosures going on at the present moment, he believed, were taking place upon grounds over which the Crown had parted with its forestal rights. In such cases the power of the House no longer existed; but the hon. Gentleman who had brought forward this subject was bound, he thought, to give some evidence in support of his views, and likewise to account for his own change of opinion. 653
 MR. BAGWELL  said, he doubted the expediency of giving the appointment of officers to the governors of asylums, as owing to the violence of party feeling in Ireland they could not be sure that in every case the best men would be em-
 636
 MR. BLAKE  rose to call the attention of the Chief Secretary for Ireland to the necessity which exists for amending the Laws relating to the administration of Lunatic Asylums in Ireland, and for making better provision for the care of Imbeciles confined in the Union Workhouses; and to inquire whether he will introduce a Bill next Session to remedy the defects complained of? For the last three years he had each Session called the attention of Government to the serious defects which existed in the moral treatment, with a few exceptions, in the Lunatic Asylums of Ireland; and in his efforts to have a proper system introduced, he had never been fortunate to obtain much support from the Irish Members. Nevertheless, the question had gained ground, and some good results had followed. He should do the Chief Secretary for Ireland the justice to say that the representations which he had made to him on the subject had not been disregarded, as he had given a good deal of attention to it, both by visiting asylums and endeavouring, as far as he could, to effect a reform in the direction which he had frequently pointed out to him as most necessary. He considered it was only just towards the Inspectors of Lunatic Asylums, as well as towards some of the Managers of these institutions in the country, to say that within the last two years an undoubted improvement had taken place in many of the asylums, so far as regarded
 629 630 631 "As regards the appointment of superior officers, resident and medical physician, &c, we consider they should be left to the governors. The evidence we have received is to a great, perhaps preponderating extent, opposed to this power being given to the governors. But, as a general principle, we do not see why the executive Government should interfere in these matters, or that its interference has, or is likely to lead to, a better selection of officers than would be made by the local authorities. It is true, as has been stated, that the appointment of these officers may tend to local contention, and that private feeling may prevail to the prejudice of the institution. We think there is not a little reason to believe that political influence might lead to an equally unfortunate result." 632 633 634 635
 MR. BLAKE  said, what he contemplated was the appointment of a special Inspector, distinct from the regular officials.
 MR. SPEAKER : The House having already resolved "that the words proposed to be left out stand part of the Question," it is not competent for the hon. Member to move any further Amendment to the Motion that I do leave the Chair.
 COLONEL SMYTH  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether, in the event of the next Assizes for the West Riding of Yorkshire being held at Leeds, the maintenance of prisoners in the Leeds Borough Gaol, in accordance with the Notice in the  Gazette
 MR. CORBALLY  bore testimony, as governor of an asylum, to the fact that the inmates were well cared for. The only fault he had to find with the management of the institutions was the difficulty of getting people in. When a person was suddenly struck with madness, a week or a fortnight might elapse before he could be got into an asylum. He would suggest that, as medical officers were at hand, a certificate of insanity might be obtained without delay, and the afflicted person removed at once to the institution.
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  said, he hoped the hon. Member would withdraw his Amendment, for unless he did so the Indemnity Bill might run the risk of not passing this year. Surely the hon. Member did not intend that the persons who had not taken the oaths should be liable to the pains and penalties to which they would be subjected unless the Bill passed into law. If the hon. Member would next Session bring forward the grievances which he believed persons laboured under from the experience of the present law, and point out how changes could be made, he might then properly ask for a Select Committee; but it would not be proper to stop the progress of the Bill in order that the hon. Member might obtain a Select Committee in this manner. This would be to prevent a present remedy to evils about which they were all agreed. At this period of the Session it would be better to allow the Bill to pass as usual, and if the hon. Member moved for a Select Committee next Session he would meet with support on that side of the House.
 MR. COLLINS  also rose to speak; but the interruption was so great that the hon. Member could not be intelligibly heard.
 MR. COX  rose to call the attention of Her Majesty's Government to the terms of a Resolution of the Select Committee on Royal Forests in Essex which sat in the Session of 1863. It might be in the recollection of the House that in February, 1863, it was agreed to present an Address to Her Majesty praying that Crown forestal right existing within fifteen miles of the metropolis should not be disposed of, nor encroachments thereon be permitted. The encroachments which had been going on were, however, continued; the public paid no attention to the rights of the Crown,
 648 "For the inclosure of the remaining portion of the forest, to ascertain the rights of the several parties interested, and to make provision for securing an adequate portion of the forest for the purposes of health and recreation, for which, it has been proved to your Committee, this forest has from time immemorial been enjoyed by the inhabitants of the neighbourhood and the metropolis." 649 "That, in the opinion of this House, Her Majesty's Government should at once take the necessary steps to carry into effect the Recommendation of the Select Committee on Royal Forests (Essex) in Session, 1863, and which Recommendation was as follows: 'To obtain the sanction of Parliament for the inclosure of the remaining portion of the forest; to ascertain the rights of the several parties interested; and to make provision for securing an adequate portion of the forest for those purposes of health and recreation for which, it has been proved to your Committee, this forest has from time immemorial been enjoyed by the inhabitants of the neighbourhood and the metropolis.'"
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he would also beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, whether he will lay upon the table of the House a Return comprising the names of all Officers of the Indian Armies who had substantive rank given them by the East India Company, irrespective of promotion by regimental seniority, since the year 1800? Whether, in reference to paragraph 69 of the Despatch of the Secretary of State to the Governor General of India, dated June 17, 1864, the Army rank proposed to be given to regimental Officers after specified periods of service is to proceed  pari passu
 COLONEL SYKES  urged the great importance of communication with British Columbia. We could not get there at all except by Panama and Cape Horn. So that Columbia were connected with Canada, what mattered whether the communication were effected by the colony of Canada or by an independent Company? The result would be that a direct communication with China would be established. The undertaking was one of great importance; and if it could be effected by a little pressure upon the Hudson's Bay Company it would be politic for the Government to exercise it. The hon. Gentleman who brought the question forward was entitled to the thanks of the House for so doing.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  also objected to the Vote, and said he should support his hon. Friend if he went to a division.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that £552 was to be paid for fees connected with the installation of Prince Alfred as a Knight of the Garter. That was not, in his opinion, a charge which ought to fall on the public purse.
 MR. WATKIN : Really the hon. Gentleman, before bringing so large a question before the House, ought to have taken more pains to be accurate. All that Canada had proposed to do was to contribute so much a year, about £10,000, in aid of the construction of a telegraph, and towards providing the means of a postal and passenger transit across the continent. And at the instance of the late Colonial Minister, the Duke of Newcastle, a proposition had been made in May, 1863, which, if at once accepted, would have led to the achievement of that great object. The Duke communicated that proposition in a despatch bearing that date, to both Canada and British Columbia; and Canada, after keeping the despatch unanswered from May, 1863, to the end of February, 1864, at last declined to proceed, and on not over creditable grounds. The House might re-
 622 623 624 prestige bona fides 625
 MR. WATKIN  said, the few words with which he should trouble the House could be offered rather as evidence in the case than as intended to convey any peculiar views of his own. He had understood that the hon. and learned Gentleman, the Mover of the Resolution, had laid down the proposition, upon what authority he knew not, that Canada was ready to assume the cost and responsibility of founding a new colony in the vast territory belonging to or at least in the possession of the Hudson's Bay Company; a colony, in fact, which would become one of a great chain of communities between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans.
 SIR GEORGE GREY,  in reply, said, he could not give a positive opinion on the point. Hitherto the prisoners committed for trial at the Assizes for the West Riding had been sent to York Castle. [Colonel SMYTH: No; Wakefield.] That was after trial. He believed the fact to be, that whereas the county had been put to the expense of maintenance of prisoners committed for trial at York Castle, those prisoners would now be sent to Leeds instead, but they would have to be paid for as before by the county. The class of prisoners at present sent to Wakefield would continue to be sent to Wakefield.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I am quite ready to afford the noble Lord the explanation which he asks, but in doing so I must disclaim the character in which he has spoken of me as the representative of Her Majesty's Government on this occasion. In the previous discussion upon this Bill I spoke only my own individual opinions; and in speaking these opinions I did not, as the noble Lord has imputed to me, promise to oppose this Bill at any stage. I agreed with the principle of the Bill, but I said that I thought my hon. Friend (Mr. Dodson) would act wisely if instead of asking what I thought Parliament would not be likely to grant—if instead of pressing the Bill in a shape in which I felt that it could not ultimately pass—he would consent to the introduction of Amendments which would place Oxford on the same footing as Cambridge. I was prepared to go further and to give to Masters of Arts a right to vote, for Members of Parliament as members of Convocation. I thought that that would have been a
 673
 SIR JERVOISE JERVOISE  asked for information as to when and where the outlay for the inspection of sheep, with a view to the prevention of disease, had been incurred, and whether the persons employed were duly qualified.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down was virtually the author of the Select Committee—[Mr. PEACOCKE: No]—having carried a Resolution preventing the sale of forestal rights over Epping Forest. He (Sir John Trollope) had been appointed a member of that Committee, and he was bound to say that the interest of the Crown, and the consequent protection which it was calculated to afford, seemed in this case to be almost infinitesimal, extending as it did only to the right of keeping deer in the forest and consequently to herbage for them. The real question was as to the persons in whom the right to the soil was vested. The real right to the soil was vested in these, and if they could agree to go to the Inclosure Commissioners, under the General Act, they could at once obtain an inclosure, and the rights of the Crown would be preserved by a small allotment but it was the lords of the soil, the commoners, and the copyholders who were the proper persons to stir in the matter. They had nothing whatever to do with the public. The public might squat upon it, or live the life of gipsies upon it, but they had no right to interfere with its ultimate appropriation. The Committee recommended larger allotments for purposes of public recreation and enjoyment than the Inclosure Commissioners had the power to award. They recommended that from 150 to 200 acres, not lying altogether, but separated by intervals of space, should be allotted to the public in this manner. There was a great difficulty in dealing with Epping Forest in that respect. If, for example, a larger allotment was set out than usual, it must be vested in some body which would improve it and keep it in proper condition. This was what ought to have been done in Chigwell. There fifty acres were appropriated to the public that were neither drained, levelled, nor inclosed; no monies were provided for those purposes; they were useless for recreation, and, unless they were placed under the care of the Board of Works
 654
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he did not think the division of Ireland into districts like those rendered compulsory by the Prisons Act would be advisable in the case of Lunatic Asylums. It was important that it should not be known beforehand what Inspector was to hold the inquiry. With regard to appointments, it was proposed in 1859 by the Ministry of that day to vest these in the governors; but the measure was strongly opposed by Liberal Members, and the present arrangement, which gave to each of the political parties in turn a share of the patronage, was, he thought, preferable. There were 16,000 of these poor creatures altogether in district Lunatic Asylums, poor houses, gaols, and private asylums. A great many boards were taking steps for affording recreation and amusement to these poor patients. It was also of great importance that chaplains should be provided for these institutions. That subject had occupied the attention of successive Lord Lieutenants. The Earl of Clarendon, the Earl of Eglinton, the Earl of St. Germans, and the present Lord Lieutenant, agreed that every Lunatic Asylum ought to have a chaplain attached to it. The Belfast Asylum was now the only one without a chaplain. Representations had been made to the board of the asylum that the patients ought to have the advantage of devotional services, but the board had hitherto resisted these appeals. Bearing in mind the great advantages that had resulted in other establishments from the services of clergymen of different denominations, he could not but think it very desirable that the deficiency should be supplied. At Londonderry, after holding out for a long time, the board agreed to make the trial. They had since reported that the effect of the ministrations of the chaplain upon the minds of the poor patients was most remarkable. It was thought that religious controversies might arise; but Roman Catholic, Presbyterian, and Episcopalian ministers attended at different hours, and the proceedings were conducted with perfect harmony. The majority of the cases in these asylums were chronic, and the patients were collected and rational, except in regard to the particular delusion in which their insanity was manifested. In the Report
 638
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he willingly bore testimony to the zeal and humane spirit which had actuated his hon. Friend the Member for Walerford in bringing the matter before the House. He could not, however, agree with his hon. Friend that further legislation on this subject was needed. The fact that this subject had not been lost sight of by the Irish Government was proved by the circumstance that since 1821 fifteen separate Acts of Parliament had been passed specially dealing with the treatment of the insane poor of Ireland. He quite concurred with the hon. Member for Clonmel in thinking that the resident physicians should be educated with a more especial eye to the duties they had to perform; but even in the present day, with the aid of the consulting physicians, they were able to deal with the unfortunate persons under their charge in a manner much more satisfactory than was formerly the case. Not having been able to catch as accurately as he could desire the observations which had fallen from the hon. Member for Waterford, the written outline of the points in which he felt interested, furnished by his hon. Friend, would enable him to deal in detail with those various matters. As regarded the appointment of a central board, his idea was that the local authorities, with the supervision of the central Government, ought to have the main direction of the institutions. Dr. Nugent and Dr. Hatchell, the present Inspectors of Lunatic Asylums, performed their duties to the satisfaction of the public, and he was always anxious that the poor inmates should be treated with every consideration. Under the existing rules and regulations the Lord Lieutenant had power to direct a special inquiry, and only recently a case occurred at
 637
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  seconded the Motion.
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE : Sir, in moving that this Bill be read a third time upon this day three months, I do not intend to enter at any length into a discussion of the merits of the Bill, or of its object or probable results. All of these subjects have already been discussed at considerable length, and hon. Gentlemen have expressed their opinions upon them. What I desire to do is to call attention to the position of the Bill, to the course of proceeding with regard to it, and to the results growing out of these proceedings. For the purpose of my argument I am willing to suppose that every Gentleman in this House will adhere to the opinions he has previously expressed on the Bill. What I wish to point out is, that if the different parties in this House do adhere to the opinions previously expressed, the decision ought to be different from that of former divisions, and the Bill ought to be rejected. 667 668
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Yes; that appears on the Protocols.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, there is no inconsistency in the assurance of my noble Friend and the course which he took. The statement is not absolutely correct. It is very easy to substitute one word for another, and so to alter the meaning. My noble Friend did not say he would make no proposal. What he stated was, that if the Danes would agree to the line of the Schlei, he would not himself propose any other line, or support any other line if it was proposed by any other Power; and to that engagement he adhered. But when, at last, it was found that the Danes would not consent to any line north of the Schlei, and that the Germans would not consent to any line south of Apenrade, it then became necessary either to give up the whole thing in despair, or to make the proposal which, in concert with the other neutral Powers, my noble Friend made—not for another line, but that an arbiter should be appointed to whom should be referred the
 656
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, what likelihood there is of a resumption of Diplomatic Relations between England and Brazil.
 MR. LESLIE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether' there is any foundation for the statements contained in the Letter of the Indian Correspondent of  The Times "That it is a den of iniquity, a sink of filth; that no one could inform the President of the sanitary Commission how many prisoners died in the gaol; that the medical attendant could not say for certain what the mortality was; and that some prisoners have been murdered by the native gaolers in the attempt to extort bribes from them and their friends."
 MR. LESLIE  said, he wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman will make further inquiry?
 MR. DISRAELI : Mr. Speaker—Some of the longest and most disastrous wars of modern Europe have been wars of succession. The Thirty Years War was a war of succession. It arose from a dispute respecting the inheritance of a duchy in the north of Europe, not very distant from that Duchy of Holstein which now engages general attention. Sir, there are two causes why wars originating in disputed succession become usually of a prolonged and obstinate character. The first is internal discord, and the second foreign ambition. Sometimes a domestic party, under such circumstances, has an understanding with a foreign Potentate; and, again, the ambition of that foreign Potentate excites the distrust, perhaps the envy, of other Powers; and the consequence is, generally speaking, that the dissensions thus created lead to prolonged and complicated struggles. Sir, I apprehend—indeed, I entertain no doubt—that it was the contemplation of such circumstances possibly occurring in our time that the statesmen of Europe, some thirteen years ago, knowing that it was probable that the Royal line of Denmark would cease, and that upon the death of the then King his dominions would be divided, and in all probability disputed, gave their best consideration to obviate the recurrence of such calamities to Europe. Sir, in these days fortunately it is not possible for the Powers of Europe to act under such circumstances as they would have done a hundred years ago. Then they would probably have met in secret conclave and have decided the arrangement for the internal government of an independent kingdom. In our time they said to the King of Denmark, "If you and your people among yourselves can make an arrangement in the case of the contingency of your death without issue, which may put an end to all internal discord, we at least will do this for you and Denmark—we will in your lifetime recognize the settlement thus made, and, so far as the influence of the great Powers can be exercised, we will at least relieve you from the other great cause which, in the case of disputed successions, leads to prolonged wars. We will save you from foreign interference, foreign ambition, and foreign aggression." That,
 710 lex regia 711 712 713 714 "Generally speaking, the monarchs of Europe have found it difficult to manage one Parliament, but I observe, to my surprise, that Lord Russell is of opinion that the King of Denmark will be able to manage four." 715 716 717 "We are asked what is the policy and the course of Her Majesty's Government respecting that dispute. We concur entirely with the hon. Gentleman (the Member for Horsham), and I am satisfied with all reasonable men in Europe, including those in France and Russia, in desiring that the independence, the integrity, and the rights of Denmark may be maintained. We are convinced—I am convinced at least—that if any violent attempt were made to overthrow those rights and interfere with that independence, those who made the attempt would find in the result that it would not be Denmark alone with which they would have to contend." — [3  Hansard, 718 "You will tell Count Rechberg that if Germany persists in confounding Schleswig with Holstein, other Powers of Europe may confound Holstein with Schleswig, and deny the right of Germany to interfere with the one any more than she has with the other, except as a European Power. Such a pretension might be as dangerous to the independence and integrity of Germany as the invasion of Schleswig might be to the independence and integrity of Denmark"— Denmark and Germany, "Before leaving his Excellency I informed him that the Swedish Government would not remain indifferent to a Federal Execution in Holstein, and that this measure of the Diet, if persisted in, might have serious consequences in Europe."— p. 117. "I have caused the Prussian  Chargé ď Affaires 719 "M. Drouyn de Lhuys expressed himself as desirous of acting in concert with Her Majesty's Government in this matter." 720 "As it might produce some danger to the balance of power especially if the integrity and independence of Denmark were in any way impaired by the demands of Germany and the measures consequent thereupon if the Government of the Emperor of the French are of opinion that any benefit would be likely to follow from an offer of good services on the part of Great Britain and France, Her Majesty's Government would be ready to take that course. If, however, the Government of France would consider such a step as likely to be unavailing, the two Powers might
 721 722 723 724 725 "The second mode of proceeding suggested by your Lordship—namely, 'To remind Austria, Prussia, and the German Diet that any acts on their part tending to weaken the integrity and independence of Denmark, would be at variance with the Treaty of the 8th of May, 1852,' would be in a great measure analogous to the course pursued by Great Britain and France in the Polish question. He had no inclination (and he frankly avowed that he should so speak to the Emperor) to place France in the same position with reference to Germany as she had been placed with regard to Russia. The formal notes addressed by the three Powers to Russia had received an answer which literally meant nothing, and the position in which those three great Powers were now placed was anything but dignified; and if England and France were to address such a reminder as that proposed to Austria, Prussia, and the German Confederation, they must be prepared to go further, and to adopt a course of action more in accordance with the dignity of two great Powers than they were now doing in the Polish question. … Unless Her Majesty's Government was prepared to go further, if necessary, than the mere presentation of a note, and the receipt of an evasive reply, he was sure the Emperor would not consent to adopt your Lordship's suggestion."—No. 2, 131. 726 "Her Majesty's Government set the highest value on the independence and integrity of Denmark. ….Her Majesty's Government will be ready to remind Austria and Prussia of their treaty obligations to respect the integrity and independence of Denmark."—No. 2, 137–8. "Her Majesty's Government by the Treaty of London, of May 8, 1852, is bound to respect the integrity and independence of Denmark. The Emperor of Austria and the King of Prussia have taken the same engagement. Her Majesty could not see with indifference a military occupation of Holstein, which is only to cease on terms injuriously affecting the constitution of the whole Danish Monarchy. Her Majesty's Government could not recognize this military occupation as a legitimate exercise of the powers of the Confederation, or admit that it could properly be called a Federal Execution. Her Majesty's Government could not be indifferent to the bearing of such an act upon Denmark and upon European interests. Her Majesty's Government therefore earnestly entreat the German Diet to pause and to submit the questions in dispute between Germany and Denmark to the mediation of other Powers unconcerned in the controversy, but deeply concerned
 727 "Her Majesty's Government trust that no act of Federal Execution to which Austria may be a party, and no act of war against Denmark on the ground of the affairs of Schleswig, will be allowed to clash with this primary and essential treaty obligation. Her Majesty's Government indeed entertain a full confidence that the Government of Austria is as deeply impressed as Her Majesty's Government with the conviction that the independence and integrity of Denmark form an essential element in the balance of power in Europe."—No. 3, 147. 728 729 Lex Regia, "Her Majesty's Government would have no
 730 "That his own instructions from the Emperor were not to take part in any negotiations here, but to tell the Danish Government explicitly that, if Denmark became involved in a war with Germany, France would not come to her assistance." 731 732 "The result to be arrived at is the fulfilment of the Treaty of May 8, 1852, and of the engagements entered into by Prussia and Austria and Denmark in 1851–2."—No. 3, 353. lapsus, 733 "Let it suffice at present for Her Majesty's Government to declare that they would consider any departure from the Treaty of Succession of 1852, by Powers who signed or acceded to that treaty, as entirely inconsistent with good faith," No. 3, 383. "If the overthrow of the dynasty now reigning in Denmark is sought by Germany the most serious consequences may ensue."—No. 3, 411. Cheers. "Any precipitate action on the part of the German Confederation may lead to consequences fatal to the peace of Europe, and may involve Germany, in particular, in difficulties of a most serious nature."—No. 4, 414. 734 Laughter "Her Majesty's Government felt that if the two Powers could agree war might be avoided, otherwise the danger of war was imminent. M. Drouyn de Lhuys said he partook this opinion; but as his Excellency made no further observation I remarked it would be a grievous thing if the difference of opinion which had arisen upon the merits of a general Congress were to produce an estrangement which would leave each Government to pursue its own course. I hoped that this would not be the case. Her Majesty's Government would do all in their power to avoid it.
 735 "Her Majesty's Government do not hold that war would relieve Prussia from the obligations of the Treaty of 1852. The King of Denmark would by that treaty be entitled still to be acknowledged as the Sovereign of all the dominions of the late King of Denmark. He has been so entitled from the time of the death of the late King. A war of conquest undertaken by Germany avowedly for the purpose of adding some parts of the Danish dominions to the territory of the German Confederation might, if successful, alter the state of possession contemplated by the Treaty of London, and give to Germany a title by conquest to parts of the dominions of the King of Denmark. The prospect of such an accession may no doubt be a temptation to those who think it can be accomplished; but Her Majesty's Government cannot believe that Prussia will depart from the straight line of good faith in order to assist in carrying such a project into effect."—No. 4, 445. Ministerial cheers. "If German nationality in Holstein, and partially in Schleswig, were made the ground of the dismemberment of Denmark, Polish nationality in the Duchy of Posen would be a ground equally strong for the dismemberment of Prussia. It appears to Her Majesty's Government that the safest course for Prussia to pursue is to act with good faith and honour, and to stand by and fulfil her treaty engagements. By such a course she will command the sympathy and approval of Europe; by a contrary course she will draw down upon herself the universal condemnation of all disinterested men. By this course alone war in Europe can be with certainty prevented."—No. 4,445. 736 "After much further conversation, in which I made use of every argument to induce his Excellency to adopt a conciliatory course, and in which I warned him of the danger of rejecting the friendly counsels now offered by Her Majesty's Government,—"—No, 3, 162. 737 "I replied that Denmark would at all events have a better chance of securing the assistance of the Powers if the execution were not resisted." 738 Cheers from the Ministerial Benches. coup d'état; 739 "I pointed out to M. Hall also that if, on the one hand, Her Majesty's Government would never counsel the Danish Government to yield anything inconsistent with the honour and independence of the Danish Crown, and the integrity of the King's dominions; so, on the other hand, we had a right to expect that the Danish Government would not, by putting forward extreme pretensions, drive matters to extremities." "I asked M. Hall to reflect what would be the position of Denmark if the advice of the Powers were refused, and what it would be if accepted, and to draw his own conclusions."—No. 4, 420. "It was my duty to declare to M. Hall that if the Danish Government rejected our advice, Her Majesty's Government must leave Denmark to encounter Germany on her own responsibility." naïveté "If they would summon the Rigsraad, and propose the repeal of the Constitution, they would act wisely, in accordance with the advice of their friends, and the responsibility of the war would not be laid at their door." 740 "The consequences would be serious. The question would cease to be a purely German one, and would become one of European importance." "The most serious consequences are to be apprehended if the Germans invade Schleswig."—No. 4, 481. "The line taken by Saxony destroys confidence in diplomatic relations with that state."—No. 4, 502. "You are instructed to represent in the strongest terms to Count Rechberg, and, if you shall have an opportunity of doing so, to the Emperor, the extreme injustice and danger of the principle and practice of taking possession of the territory of a State as what is called a material guarantee for the obtainment of certain international demands, instead of pressing those demands by the usual method of negotiation. Such a practice is fatal to peace, and destructive of the independence of States. It is destructive of peace because it is an act of war, and if resistance takes place it is the beginning of war. But war so begun may not be confined within the narrow limits of its early commencement, as was proved in 1853, when the occupation of the Danubian Principalities by Russia as a material guarantee proved the direct cause of the Crimean war."—No. 4, 564. "Such a practice is most injurious to the independence and integrity of the States to which it is applied, because a territory so occupied can scarcely be left by the occupying force in the same state in which it was when the occupation took place. But, moreover, such a practice may recoil upon those who adopt it, and, in the ever-varying course of events, it may be most inconveniently applied to those who, having set the example, had flattered themselves it never could be applied to them."—No. 4, 564. "Her Majesty's Government having been informed that the Governments of Austria and Prussia have addressed a threatening summons to Denmark, the undersigned has been instructed to ask for a formal declaration on the part of
 741 "As to the four Powers impressing upon the Diet the heavy responsibility that it would incur if, by any precipitate measures, it were to break the peace of Europe before the Conference which had been proposed by the British Government for considering the means of settling the question between Germany and Denmark, and thereby maintaining that peace, can be assembled, M. Drouyn de Lhuys observed that he had not forgotten that when Russia had been warned by France, Great Britain, and Austria of the responsibility which she was incurring by her conduct towards Poland, Prince Gortsehakoff had replied, 'that Russia was ready to assume that responsibility before God and man.' He, for one, did not wish to provoke another answer of the same sort to be received with the same indifference."—No. 4, 536. 742 "M. Drouyn de Lhuys, after recapitulating the substance of my despatch of the 24th of January to your Excellency, explains very clearly the views of the French Government upon the subject. The Emperor recognizes the value of the London Treaty as tending to preserve the balance of power and maintain the peace of Europe. But the Government of France, while paying a just tribute to the purport and objects of the Treaty of 1852, is ready to admit that circumstances may require its modification. The Emperor has always been disposed to pay great regard to the feelings and aspirations of nationalities. It is not to be denied that the national feelings and aspirations of Germany tend to a closer connection with the Germans of Holstein and Schleswig. The Emperor would feel repugnance to any course which should bind him to oppose in arms the wishes of Germany. It may be comparatively easy for England to carry on a war which can never go beyond maritime operations of blockade and capture of ships. Schleswig and England are far apart from each other. But the soil of Germany touches the soil of France, and a war between France and Germany would be one of the most burdensome and one of the most hazardous in which the French Empire could engage. Besides these considerations, the Emperor cannot fail to recollect that he has been made an object of mistrust and suspicion in Europe on account of his supposed projects of aggrandizement on the Rhine. A war commenced on the frontiers of Germany could not fail to give strength to these unfounded and unwarrantable imputations. For these reasons, the Government of the Emperor will not take at present any engagement on the subject of Denmark. If, hereafter, the balance of power should be seriously threatened, the Emperor may be inclined to take new measures in the interest of France and of Europe. But for the present the Emperor reserves to his Government entire liberty."—No. 4, 620. 743 744 745 746 Cheers 747 748 749 750
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I will venture to assure the right hon. Gentleman that he shall have no ground to complain of any attempt on the part of Her Majesty's Government to disguise or to escape from their responsibility. Whether, indeed, he has rightly measured the duties of an Opposition—whether he has successfully vindicated the terms of the Motion he submits to the House, is a matter fairly open, I think, to inquiry by the House; but I admit fully and freely that his charges against the Government are bold and palpable, and that the first demand to satisfy is that we should offer our defence. Therefore, I make no apology to hon. Gentlemen who have placed Amendments on the paper. I can well understand why the hon. Gentleman the Member for Bridgwater (Mr. Kinglake) or the hon. Gentleman opposite the Member for Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate), should have thought it right in the interests of England to substitute Motions which really do involve a policy for a Motion which involves none. At the same time it is our duty, while wholly refraining from any attempt to question the exercise of their discretion, to step in by the kind indulgence of the House, upon the delivery of the charge by the right hon. Gentleman, and to meet the accusations which he has lavished upon the conduct of the Secretary of State and of the Government. 752
 MR. DISRAELI : I never said that Parliament had shown extreme reserve.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I was not using the right hon. Gentleman's words, but my own, and I take the liberty of making tins further observation on the same point, that the only charge, or at any rate the prominent objection, which was made to the conduct or supposed conduct
 753 754 "France was not, his Excellency said, by any means indifferent to the maintenance of the integrity and independence of Denmark, and it was not from any indifference that he disapproved of your Lordship's suggestion. He had already represented to the German Powers that if they invaded Holstein for the purpose of effecting a revolt in Schleswig, or if they went further and invaded Sehleswig itself, they would be infringing on the rights of an independent Sovereign, and entering upon a grave question affecting the balance of power in Europe, to which France could not remain indifferent."—No. 2, 131. 755 "Not to take part in any negotiations here, but to tell the Danish Government explicitly that, if Denmark became involved in a war with Germany, France would not come to her assistance, and to advise in general terms moderation and concessions to Germany." "He(M. Drouyn de Lhuys) was positive that no declaration had been made by the General (Fleury) which did not leave the Emperor free to take any course which events might render expedient." 756 "Any precipitate action on the part of the German Confederation at the present moment may lead to consequences fatal to the peace of Europe, and may involve Germany in particular in difficulties of a most serious nature."—No. 4, 414. "The Diet sitting at Frankfort appears to claim a right to decide on questions of succession in the several States composing the Confederation, and to be bent on asserting such right in the present case of the succession in the Duchy of Holstcin." 757 "I said, [to M. Drouyn de Lhuys,] that Her Majesty's Government were most seriously desirous to act with the Imperial Government on this question." "They felt that if the two could agree war might be avoided; otherwise the danger of war was imminent. M. Drouyn de Lhuys said that he partook this opinion; but as his Excellency made no further observation I remarked that it would be a grievous thing if the difference of opinion which had arisen upon the merits of a General Congress were to produce an estrangement which would leave each Government to pursue its own course."—No. 4, 444. 758 "I presume that I might give them [Her Majesty's Government] the assurance that the Imperial Government were not decided to reject the notion of a Conference. M. Drouyn de Lhuys replied that the Imperial Government were anxious to prevent a war, and if they saw their way to its prevention through a Conference they would not refuse to take part in one." "I have detailed, as far as time will admit of, the general tenour of my conversation with M. Drouyn de Lhuys. I should add that His Excellency expressed the opinion that if your Lordship would also insist on knowing the intentions of the two great German Powers, it would aid in bringing this question to an earlier solution."—No. 4, 445. 759 760 "M. Drouyn de Lhuys assures me that his advice to the Danish Cabinet has been of a most pacific nature, and that he has recommended acquiescence in the Federal Execution, should the Diet persist in ordering it, rather than risk hostilities."—No. 3, 179. "Upon M. Hall pressing Count Manderstrom on this point, his Excellency distinctly told M. Hall that, although the Swedish Government might agree with that of Denmark in the view they took of the possible entry of Federal troops into Holstein, they could not commit themselves to a commencement of hostilities with the Confederation on Federal territory, and he strongly advised the Danish Government to avoid doing so." "Sir Augustus Paget having communicated to me a letter addressed to him on the 19th instant by M. Hall, announcing the decision of the Danish Government not to offer resistance in Holstein to the forces of the Confederation, and stating that this decision has been taken especially in conse-
 761 "Her Majesty's Government are very reluctant to interfere with regard to the Danish Constitution, and therefore I cannot instruct you to urge the King to take a course which may be very unpalatable to his subjects. At the same time, if you are questioned, you may say that, as his Majesty desires, doubtless, that the proposed mediation should lead to a good result, the probability of its doing so might be greatly increased if his assent to the Constitution were to be suspended, until a settlement of the international question
 762 763 764 "I approve entirely the terms of the document, I find it in all points agreeable to our interests; and I invite you to make use of the first occasion which may present itself, to become the medium of conveying to Lord Palmerston our cordial gratitude for this new proof of the interest and friendship of that illustrious statesman for Denmark, and of his sincere desire to procure for us the necessary guarantees." 765 766 de bene esse, 767 768 769 Laughter. 770 771 772
 MR. DISRAELI : I did not use those words. [Several MEMBERS: "Utter incapacity," "Intense incapacity."]
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The right hon. Gentleman says that he did not use those words. I am willing to take it either way—"utter," "intense," or "miserable,"—he says, "utter incapacity," and I am quite willing to accept the correction. He says, "By your gross mismanagement you have offended all our allies. You have made yourselves contemptible to those who supported you." These are the charges which form the matter of the right hon. Gentleman's speech. He seems to think that he has proved his case because we have failed in averting war. My noble Friend the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs at any rate has contrived to stave off this war for the best part of five years after he came into office. But the right hon. Gentleman should have extended to us his compassionate recollection, for when he was a Minister of the Crown, and when Lord Malmesbury was Secretary of State, he did not succeed in staving off a war for five days. The right hon. Gentleman came down to the House of Commons on the 18th of April, 1859, and told us that he was well satisfied peace could be preserved; and yet on the 22nd of April an Austrian summons was sent to Piedmont to disarm, which was the commencement of the war in Italy. Surely some allowance should be made for human infirmity. Let us have some mercy shown towards us. I appeal to your humane, your generous feelings. If they give me no answer, I appeal to your own experience for our justification. The language of the Motion is this:—"Let the noble Lord go out; let the noble Earl the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs go out; let all their Colleagues go out of the way, and let the figures of myself and Lord Malmesbury appear upon the stage, when everyone will be well behaved, and all misdoers, all public criminals, all public offenders against the peace of Europe will be affrighted," as were the Greeks of old by the appearance of Æneas in the shades below—
 "—phalanges Ut vidêre virum fulgentiaque arma per umbras Ingenti trepidare metu." 774 775 776 jejeune 777
 MR. NEWDEGATE  rose to move the insertion, in lieu of the second paragraph of Mr. Disraeli's Motion, of the following words:—
 "To submit to Her Majesty the opinion of this House, that the independence of Denmark and the possessions of that kingdom, on the terms proposed by the representatives of the neutral Powers in the recent Conference, ought to be guaranteed." 778 "Still, the contest is, as regards Schleswig, and not as regards the independence of Denmark, or the safety of the capital of the Danish monarchy. I do not mean to say, therefore—I think it right, indeed, to put in this reservation—that if the war should assume a different character; if the existence of Denmark as an independent Power in Europe should be at stake; if we had reason to expect to see at Copenhagen the horrors of a town taken by assault—the destruction of property, the sacrifice of lives, not only of its defenders, but of the peaceful inhabitants, the confiscations which would ensue, the capture of the Sovereign, as a prisoner of war, and other humiliations of that kind—I do not mean to say that if any of those events were likely to happen the position of this country might not be a subject for re-consideration. We might then think it our duty to adopt another course; but this I say, tin the part of the Government, that if any change of policy be thought advisable such change shall be communicated to Parliament, if Parliament is sitting, and in any case the earliest opportunity
 779 780 781 782 783 784 785
 MR. H. G. LANGTON  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. KINGLAKE  said, that since it was obvious that the Amendment proposed by the hon. Gentleman the Member for North Warwickshire, would be altogether inconsistent with that which he had the honour to place on the notice book, it might, perhaps, be convenient to the House to regard the two as one, and to permit him, at that early period of the debate, to state the purpose for which he had introduced his Amendment to the House. But before doing so, it would be right to offer this one remark upon the Amendment moved by the hon. Gentleman. The hon. Gentleman proposed that the Government should guarantee to the King of Denmark all that portion of Schleswig which lay north of the dividing line of the Schlei. But this disputed territory was at present in the hands of the German Powers, and, therefore, to propose to guarantee to Denmark territories which were in possession of the German armies was simply to propose war, and something more—war at this moment, and liability to war through all time to come. Because, if we were to guarantee these mixed districts to the King of Denmark he could not imagine that any one would live to see a period when the Government of this
 786 787 788 789 790 791 792 793
 GENERAL PEEL : At last that opportunity, which at an earlier period of the Session I ventured to predict would be afforded to the Government to explain and, if possible, to defend their foreign policy, has arrived; and, at last, we are able to give expression to those feelings which the events that have occurred around us must have created in the breasts of all. I think the House of Commons has only done its duty by refraining, while the Conference was sitting, from entering into any discussion upon this subject. It is not the province of the House of Commons to carry on negotiations with foreign Powers, or to interfere with those upon whom the duty and responsibility of doing so rests; but it is the duty of the House of Commons, which I look upon as the guardian, not only of the interests, but of the honour of the country, to demand the strictest account of the manner in which those duties have been performed, and it is in the execution of that duty that 1, or any other Member, have a right to call upon the Government for an account of their stewardship, and to judge by the manner in which it has been executed whether it is right that the honour of the country should be any longer intrusted to their charge Although, Sir, I address you from this bench, and although I entirely agree in the address which my right hon. friend has moved, and take upon myself the full responsibility of my share in its proposal, it is not my intention to make a party speech, or for any party purpose. No man in this House feels more strongly, or is more actuated by those party feelings than I am; but there is a greater party than any in this House to which we all belong, and that is our country; and it is as an Englishman, or rather as a citizen of the United Kingdom—for I am perfectly certain that, when the honour of this country is concerned, there will be no distinction between Englishmen, Irishmen, and Scotchmen—that I express those feelings of deep humiliation which I, in common, I believe, with a large majority of my countrymen, have felt for the position this country has been placed in. I have thus distinctly stated the capacity in which I address you, because I always say what I think myself, and not what others
 794 795 796 suaviter in modo fortiter in re suaviter in modo 797 fortiter in re "Our policy has led us to a point where we must either engage single-handed in a war with Germany, or justly be branded as big-mouthed; bullies, who sneak off at the first show of danger, leaving our friends at the mercy of their enemies. Despised in Germany, and laughed at as the manufacturers of  bruta fulmina 798 "That women fight with words, Monks with curses, men with swords." 799 800 "Right the wrong where it is given, If it were in the court of heaven." 801
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that whatever might be the merits of the speech of the right hon. and gallant Gentleman, (General Peel) there could be no doubt that it was very fittingly delivered in support of the Resolution moved by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Bucks; for unquestionably that Resolution was not of an explicit character. At a time when it was most desirable to speak plainly on a subject which was capable of plain and intelligible exposition, the Resolution left it in doubt whether it was for peace or war. ["Oh!"] Did the Resolution censure the Government for having abstained from warlike operations, or did it censure the mode in which the negotiations had been conducted? If it meant the last, it would have been very easy to have said so, and, without leaving the question in any doubt, it might have made it quite distinct that, in the opinion of hon. Gentlemen opposite, the Government had done quite right in abstaining from hostilities and in not going to war. It was very easy to perceive what the real object of the Resolution was. As he had said the speech of the right hon. and gallant Gentleman had been very fittingly delivered in support of the Motion. The first part of it led him to think that the policy of the right hon. Gentleman would have chalked out for the country during last year was that of abstaining altogether from interfering in the affairs of our neighbours, of taking no part in the struggle in Germany, of attending to our own domestic concerns, and not running the risk of entangling ourselves in Europe. The right hon. Gentleman would have made no treaties and given no guarantees. But who was it who made the treaty of 1852? The right hon. and gallant Gentleman's friends were in office at the time, and he (the Lord Advocate) thought he was entitled to ask who it was who made the Treaty of 1852? In asking that question he was obliged also to ask why it was that they made it, and why they at that time put themselves forward to interfere in the affairs of their neighbours? The right hon. and gallant Gentleman said England was disgraced and degraded because they had sat still and
 802 803 804 "Her Majesty's Government are very reluctant to interfere with regard to the Danish Constitution, and therefore I cannot instruct you to urge
 805 Danish Papers, "I entreated his Excellency to weigh well the gravity of the dangers which threatened Denmark, General Fleury had informed M. d'Ewers and me that he was instructed to tell the Danish Government that France would not go to war to support Denmark against Germany. It was my duty to declare to him that if the Danish Government rejected our advice, Her Majesty's Government must leave Denmark to encounter Germany on her own responsibility. Surely there was nothing inconsistent with the honour of Denmark in yielding to the united counsels of England, France, and Russia."—No. 4, 418. "I replied by stating as clearly and as forcibly as I could the immense advantage it would be to Denmark if negotiation could be substituted for war; the support she might expect in the one case, and her entire isolation in the other." 806 "With regard to the request that friendly Powers should come to the assistance of Denmark, Her Majesty's Government can only say that every step they may think it right to take in the further progress of this unhappy contest can only he taken after full consideration and communication with France and Russia. These Powers are as much interested in the maintenance of the integrity of the Danish Monarchy as Great Britain; and tier Majesty's Government may fairly have recourse to their advice and concert in any measures to be taken for the preservation of that integrity."—No. 5, 704. 807 Ironical cries of and Cheers. 808
 LORD STANLEY : Sir, I seldom trouble the House, nor shall I do so at length upon the present occasion; but there are some remarks of the learned Lord which I cannot allow to go forth to the public without comment. The learned Lord may be, and I believe is, a very able and successful advocate, but I do not think he has been particularly happy in his criticism to-night. He began by taunting my right hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Huntingdonshire (General Peel) with inconsistency in opposing all treaties of guarantee, whereas he had something to do with the Treaty of 1852. Now, in the first place, my right hon. Friend had nothing whatever to do with
 809 810 811 812 813 814 815 816 casus belli, 817
 MR. LAYARD  replied, that negotiations were still going on, but he was unable to say when they would be completed.
 MR. LAYARD  said, in the latter part of the Question the word "occupation" was incorrect. The statement was that there was no "conquest" of Jutland.
 MR. LAYARD : Not that I am aware.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, in reply, that it was found that in the first distribution of this money several mistakes had been made in India, and instructions were sent out in order that those mistakes might be corrected. The amount of the second portion to be distributed could not be determined until that of the first had been ascertained. However, he had written out to India early in March with a view to accelerate the second distribution, but he had not yet received an answer to his despatch.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  replied that the operations of the prize agents having been brought to a close, this property was held to belong to the Crown; and a proposal made by the Chief Commissioner of Oude, that a certain portion should be granted to the finders, was considered and approved by the Government of India in December, 1859. The distribution of this sum was left to Major General Sir Hope Grant.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : Certainly. I apprehend if the statement in the letter quoted by the hon. Member be true, the Sanitary Commission which has been recently appointed for Bengal has already inquired into the state of the case. I am not in possession of the Report, but no doubt it will be sent.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD,  in reply, said, he had seen the statement to which the hon. Gentleman had called attention, and he could only say that it was very shocking, if true. He had received no information himself upon the subject, and therefore he was unable either to confirm or contradict the statement. It seemed, how-
 707
 CAPTAIN CLIVE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether any steps are being taken to accelerate the distribution of the second instalment of Delhi Prize Money to claimants in
 706
 MR. HENNESSY  was glad that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed to negative the 16th Clause, to which he had first objected, and that some explanation had been given of the other two clauses, which he thought Irish Members would see were of very great importance, and did not relate to fiscal reform, which no Member would have presumed to discuss.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had considered the clause relating to Irish distillation as to which there had been a controversy on a former evening, and he had come to the conclusion to withdraw it from the Bill, and the Attorney General would look more closely into the matter during the recess. With regard to the clauses affecting Irish brewers, his desire was to give them the same advantages as brewers in this country. If there were any desire that the Bill should be postponed for a short time, he should raise no objection.
 SIR GEORGE GREY,  in moving the second reading of the Bill, said, that some of the recommendations of the Royal Commission which had inquired into the state of education in our Public Schools, would, when carried out, affect the governing bodies, and the object of this Bill was merely to provide that no new vested interest should be created after the passing of this Act, which should stand in the way of any future regulations which Parliament might think proper to make.
 SIR GEORGE GREY,  in reply, said, no circular note to that effect had been received.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  suggested that the third reading should be postponed for at least a week, so that, if there were any possible objections to the Bill, the House might be put in possession of them.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he wished to know whether Her Majesty's Government are in possession of any information that the German Powers are about to attack Copenhagen and the Islands?
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, in the absence of the First Lord of the Treasury, he would beg to ask the Government, Whether any Circular Note or Despatch has been received by Her Majesty's Government from the Allied Powers, declaring they no longer consider themselves bound by the concessions made by them at the Conference; and whether any statement has been made by Austria, that the assertion made by Earl Russell that Austria will confine herself to the occupation of Schleswig and Holstein is erroneous?
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether the booty taken at the Begum's Coote (Lucknow) in December, 1858, has been, or is to be, distributed among the troops by whom it was captured; and if the whole, or any portion of it, is to be so distributed, when the distribution is likely to take place?
 SIR WILLIAM FRASER  said, this Bill was a very important one, affecting, as it did, the interests of an influential body of men, and he thought therefore that its object should have been explained more fully than had been done by the right hon. Gentleman. They had no means of knowing that the new Parliament which they were to have next February would condescend to legislate on this subject. He hoped, therefore, another opportunity of discussing the merits of the Bill would be afforded even at this late period of the Session.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  having moved that the Orders of the Day be postponed till after the notice of Motion relative to Denmark and Germany, said: I am bound to state to the House that we have received to-day a communication from the Prussian Ambassador with reference to the correspondence which has been published in one of the morning newspapers. I will not read the whole of the communication, but in it he says that since that newspaper has, notwithstanding the official denial which has been given, published despatches which are fabrications from beginning to end, and thinking that some question might be asked me in this House concerning them, he deems it his duty to tell me, "with all the authority of my official character, that, as far as my Government is concerned, all this pretended correspondence is a complete invention."
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he was sorry he could not lay upon the table a Return entering into such minute details of the armaments of this country. He did not believe that on any previous occasion Returns entering into such minute particulars had been granted, as the effect would be prejudicial to the public service, such information being made known not only to that House, but to the whole world. He had no objection, however, to state, as the hon. and gallant Gentleman was aware, and as he had stated to the House several times this Session, that pending the course of experiments which were now going on we had no guns in the public service which could be relied on in the circumstances contemplated by the hon. and gallant Gentleman's Question. The only guns we were in possession of were a small number of twelve ton guns which the House was aware had been proved effective. The Government had ordered—and they were now in the course of construction—150 guns of weights varying from six to seven tons, which, if rifled, would have a calibre of
 826
 SIR HERVEY BRUCE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether the Government will, in accordance with the request of a numerously signed Memorial, increase the Grant commonly called "Regium Donum" to the Presbyterian Church in Ireland?
 MR. PEEL , in reply, said, the Memorialists had asked the Treasury to consent to an increase of the Regium Donum from £40,000 to £56,000 in order that the Parliamentary stipend of the ministers of endowed congregations might be increased from £70 to £100. The subject had been fully considered, and the Government did not feel themselves at liberty to recommend an increase of the Grant.
 MR. COBDEN : We are indebted to the two hon. Gentlemen who have put Amendments on the paper for having enlarged the scope of our deliberations. The hon. Member for Bridgwater has proposed to move an Amendment to the effect that the approval of this House is due to Her Majesty's Government for the course which they have taken in avoiding war for the defence of Denmark. I think that is an Amendment which, without endorsing the proceedings by which that result has been arrived at, the House will be pretty generally inclined to accept. The hon. Member for North Warwickshire has moved an Amendment recommending that this country should guarantee to Denmark the disputed possessions of Schleswig-Holstein—possessions left in dispute after the Conference, thus raising the issue, "Aye," or "No," whether this country shall adopt the policy of intervention and war in the case of Schleswig-Holstein.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  explained that the meaning of his Amendment was, that the proposals of the neutral Powers in the Conference should be supported by the House.
 MR. COBDEN : I apprehend that the hon. Gentleman means to support that policy by war. That is all I meant to infer, and the hon. Gentleman does not contradict me. The right hon. Gentleman who brought forward the original Motion has not confined himself to a declaration of fact, or to a statement of the judgment of this House on the conduct of the Government, as he would, I think, have been wise in doing, but he has rather sought to lead us into what I may call the region of prophecy, for he has proposed for our assent a declaration that the course which the Government has pursued has had the effect of lowering us in the councils of nations, and has diminished the securities
 828 829 830 831 "Useful or necessary changes in legislation, and in the administration of States, ought only to emanate from the free will and the intelligent and well-weighed conviction of those whom God has rendered responsible for power. All that deviates from this line necessarily leads to disorder, commotions, and evils far more insufferable than those which they pretend to remedy. Penetrated with this eternal truth, the Sovereigns have not hesitated to proclaim it with frankness and vigour; they have declared that, in respecting the rights and independence of all legitimate power, they regarded as legally null and as disavowed by the principles which constitute the public right of Europe all pretended reform operated by revolt and open hostility." 832 833 834 835 836 837 Cries of and laughter 838 839 "We believe that all the disturbances which have agitated Europe from 1815 to the present time, all the discontent and revolutions of these thirty-two years, and the moral inquietude which more or less agitates society have been caused by the unnatural and forced partition of Europe by the Congress of Vienna. Its measures for the establishment of peace and tranquillity in Europe have proved the germ of all the wars and revolutions which have since occurred, because the only interests there cared for were those of dynasties, families, and privileged classes, without any consideration of national feeling, or of the inevitable wants of that new state of society which the Revolution had created." 840 841 842
 LORD ROBERT CECIL : Sir, I have some difficulty in following the hon. Gentleman the Member for Rochdale, because this Motion is an attack on Her Majesty's Government, and it appears to me that although he spoke as their advocate his enthusiasm in their favour does not rise to a very high temperature. In fact, the hon. Gentleman seems to me to be about as good a friend of Her Majesty's Government as Her Majesty's Government have been of the Kingdom of Denmark. But there is this remarkable difference between the two cases—that whereas Her Majesty's Government gave to Denmark abundance of good words and no material aid, the hon. Gentleman is about to give to the Government all his material aid, while he accompanies it with a full dose of what certainly cannot be called fair words. I listened with much pleasure to the greater part of the speech of the hon. Gentleman as a straightforward expression of the opinions which he is known to hold; but there was one portion of it which I heard with regret. I regret that considering the position in which the country stands towards Denmark—no matter from what cause—one holding so prominent a position in this House should have thought it right to fling upon that unhappy country reproaches for what has passed. Denmark has not much to thank us for; but we have steadily maintained her right upon the points to which the hon. Gentleman has touched; and I think it would only be fair that we should not now attempt to re-open these unhappy discussions, and to cover with reproaches a country which has too much reason to complain of our acts. I cannot, of course, agree with the doctrines of foreign policy laid down by the hon. Gentleman. But I will say this—that if the hon. Gentleman had been Foreign Secretary instead of Lord Russell, I fully believe this country would occupy a position proud and noble compared to that which she occupies at this moment. He would at least have been entitled to the credit of having acted from the first on fixed and definite principles, of holding out in the name of England no hopes which she did not intend to fulfil, of entering into no engagements from which she was ready to recede; it would be felt that, whatever might be her course, she had acted from high motives and upon a distinct policy, and not
 843 844 "I may mention here that M. Bismarck asked me some days ago, whether it might not be possible to effect an arrangement by arbitration; and I replied that, as countries did not submit questions affecting their independence to the arbitration of the Governments of other States, Her Majesty's Government were not likely to ask Denmark to do so." No. 3, 174. "Such being the circumstances, he (M. de Bismarck) said he would ask whether I thought Her Majesty's Government might not be disposed to address a fuller despatch to Sir Alexander Malet, stating that the Danish Government had I expressed their readiness to submit the international differences between Denmark and Germany to the mediation of Great Britain; and that Her Majesty's Government, convinced that the Diet were equally desirous with Denmark to bring their international differences to an amicable solution, now offered their mediation to the Diet." No. 3,197 845 "As matters now stand, Her Majesty's Government have come to the conclusion that it is inexpedient for them, at all events for the present, to make any further proposal to the Diet." No.3, 199. "All he (M. de Bismarck) could say was that if your Lordship had complied with the suggestion in my despatch of the 5th inst., and if you had written to Sir Alexander Malet in the exact terms of that despatch, so as to bring the matter anew before the Diet in a form which, in his opinion, would have met the objections which they had raised to the previous communication made to them from Copenhagen, through M. de Tydow, the Prussian Government was prepared to give their vote in favour of the proposal which it was hoped Her Majesty's Government would have made, and to have supported it with all their influence; and he begged me to say that if Her Majesty's Government would re-consider their decision, and still act upon his suggestion, their offer of mediation would be supported by Prussia, if she stood alone, which he hoped she would not do, as he felt assured she would carry a majority of the Diet with her." No. 3. 204. "This communication, confidentially made to me by Baron de Kubeck, was accompanied by an expression of great regret that our offer had not been made during the lifetime of the late King of Denmark, when Austria would readily have accepted the friendly proposal." No. 3, 280. 846 "Should Federal troops enter Holstein on purely Federal grounds, Her Majesty's Government would not interfere; but should it appear that Federal troops had entered the Duchy on international grounds, Her Majesty's Government may be obliged to interfere." "It would be no less impossible for Her Majesty's Government to enter into any engagement, that if the Federal troops should not limit their operations to the Duchy of Holstein, but should on some pretence or other extend their operations to the Duchy of Sehleswig, Her Majesty's Government would maintain an attitude of neutrality between Germany and Denmark." No. 4, 413. 847 "In reply to your Excellency's despatch of the 2nd instant, which was received on the 4th, I have to inform you that Her Majesty's Government consider you were right in stating to the Prussian Secretary for Foreign Affairs that they had not said that the relations between England and Prussia might be endangered by an invasion of Schleswig, although they considered that such an invasion might do so if due time were not given to the Danish Government to grant the concession which they were required to make." No. 4, 488. "It is to be observed that in speaking to Count Bernstorff on the occasion alluded to, I had expressly declared that I could not say what the decision of the Government might be, as the Cabinet had not yet deliberated, and, consequently, not submitted any opinion to the Queen; but that, judging from the general current of feeling in Parliament and in the nation, I thought an invasion of Schleswig by Germany might lead to assistance to Denmark on the part of this country." No. 4, 534. 848 "I represented to him the pressing necessity of arresting warlike preparations, and combining the Powers least directly interested to prevent the attack on Schleswig which seemed imminent, or that it might be possible that the Germans might find themselves confronted with the armed intervention of Great Britain." "I am not aware of a single word having been said by his noble Friend by way of menace to the German Powers after it was found that a European combination in support of the treaty was no longer obtainable." "The intelligence of the entrance of German troops into Jutland has been received by Her Majesty's Government with surprise, for no previous intimation had been conveyed to them of such an extension of the field of hostilities being contemplated by the Austrian and Prussian Governments. You will not disguise from M.
 849 Forte 850 851 "I entreated his Excellency to weigh well the gravity of the dangers which threatened Denmark, General Floury had informed M. d'Ewers and me that he was instructed to tell the Danish Government that France would not go to war to support Denmark against Germany. It was my duty to declare to him that if the Danish Government rejected our advice, Her Majesty's Government must leave Denmark to encounter Germany upon her own responsibility." 852 "I said that the Danish Government were the best judges of the manner in which the law could be changed, but of course he would understand that Her Majesty's Government would never advise recourse to unconstitutional means." 853
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, that he had listened with great interest and attention to the able speech of the noble Lord the Member for Stamford, but he had heard no answer to the question which he had put to himself throughout this debate. What would be the immediate policy of the Opposition if it succeeded to power? He knew what the feelings of the noble Lord were upon this subject, and bow well informed he was, but still the noble Lord gave no intimation of the direction in which his influence would be exerted whether it would be for immediate war, or for such steps as would lead to immediate war, or whether it would be in an opposite direction. He trusted the House would go back to the real question before it. The question at issue really was whether the present Vote of Censure should be treated with the view of placing the Gentlemen opposite in power and displacing the present Ministers. Surely, then, those who desired to promote the interests of the country must be informed before they were asked to vote with the Opposition what, if they came into office, they themselves would do in this particular crisis. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire, in his long and eloquent speech, inveighed against the past conduct of the Government; but when he came to
 854 855 "I emphatically declare that you have tarnished the honour of the country; but I appeal to every Englishman, let his policy be what it may, whether he has not felt a sense of the deepest humiliation at seeing a small country whom we had promised to protect by treaty overwhelmed by a stronger force." 856 857 858 859 entente cordiale 860
 MR. BUTLER-JOHNSTONE  said, that the question before the House was not whether our policy should be one of intervention or non-intervention, whether we were to make use of the influence which we possessed as one of the great Powers for the welfare of Europe and the interests and honour of England, or whether we were to take refuge in that other policy of not meddling—minding our own business, as it was called; but the question was how the Government in their late diplomatic negotiations had dealt with the interests and honour of this country. By the vote which they were called upon to give they were asked to protest against the foreign policy of the Government which had brought them into this dilemma—either that they were obliged to abandon a weak ally whom they had taught to look up to us for assistance, or to reverse the traditional policy of this country, and engage in an impolitic war. It was for having reduced the country to this miserable alternative that they were called upon to give their support to what he believed to be a thoroughly honest Vote of Censure upon Ministers. Some hon. Members had found fault with the Resolution because it was not strong enough. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had asked why was an insidious vote of that kind to be proposed rather than a direct censure. Now, to his mind he had never read a stronger or more direct Vote of Censure than that proposed by his right hon. Friend. What they maintained was that the policy of the present Government for the last eighteen months had been, to say the best, a perfect  fiasco. 861 Réoue des Deux, Mondes Journal des Débats, Don Quixote The Times 862 "The hon. Member has proposed to the Government a question so unusual that I cannot think he is serious in asking it. … At the same time, the respect we feel for the hon. Member makes us think it right to give some answer to the hon. Member; and the answer is simply this. It has never been the custom to issue proclamations of neutrality in any case in which Her Majesty's Government have felt that they have a deep interest involved pending negotiations which may or may not have the result of calling for action on the part of Her Majesty's Government. … It is absolutely necessary that Her Majesty's Government should reserve to themselves the power of taking any course which the honour of Great Britain and Europe may require. Therefore, to issue a pro-
 863 Hansard, 864 865 866 867 868
 LORD HARRY VANE  said, that having on former occasions expressed opinions favourable to the Danes, without retracting these he wished to explain his present views. He now felt that the Treaty of 1852 could not be carried out. He thought the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had hardly been consistent in the course of his speech. He had avoided naturally—as all on the other side had avoided—expressing any definite view as to the course which he would recommend to be adopted at the present crisis of things. He did not altogether blame them for that. It was the part of an Opposition to criticize, not to prescribe. Therefore, as a general rule, he did not find fault with an Opposition for not stating what its policy would be on every question that might arise; but on a question which agitated Europe, and respecting which they proposed an Address to Her Majesty expressing censure of the policy of Her Majesty's Government, he did think it was in fairness and justice incumbent on the Opposition to state what would be their policy. He did not mean to say they should go into details, but they should state in broad terms what their policy was. The
 869 870 871 872 873
 MR. LIDDELL  said, it was almost refreshing to hear from the other side of the House a speech professing to support the policy of the Government, for up to that point the difficulty of an attentive listener would have been to discover on which side of the House their policy had been; most impugned. He did not think the noble Lord who had just spoken had made out any case in support of the vote he intended to give. The issue raised was clear and distinct—it was that the influence of England had been lessened by the conduct of the Government in the course of the late proceedings. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had accused Gentlemen on the Opposition side of the House of ungenerous and unpatriotic conduct in the Motion they had put forward. A reproach less merited, or proceeding from one less entitled to make it, he hardly remembered. Not once, but scores of times, Members of the Opposition had rescued from defeat the Government of which he was so great an ornament, and while the Cabinet were engaged in conducting difficult negotiations
 874 875 876 877 878
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU : Sir, if the policy advocated by the Opposition were really a war policy, as has already been hinted by hon. Members in this debate, I certainly could not consent, upon such an occasion, to give them my support. Their policy however is, I conceive, of a very different character. It is founded
 879 880 881 882 149—"The last ten years have been a race for building, a race for getting in stores, and a race for getting men into the service." 1408.—"There are demands made upon the Admiralty for naval force by the Foreign Office, and by the Colonial Office in different parts of the world. Ill those demands lead to expense." 1543.—"A considerable change has taken place in the practical working of our system of late years. Until 1853–4 the expenditure of the army and navy ran within certain accustomed channels; the amount of it varied but little from year to year,
 883 "It appears to Earl Russell that it would agree but little with the honour of the European Powers not to succeed in finding a solution for the difficulties which remain to be settled, without a recommencement of the war." "The Treaty of 1852 was concluded with the object of consolidating the peace of the North." "The political and administrative independence of the Duchies [that, namely, which had been debarred by the Treaty]; this was the motive for which the German Powers made war." 884 885 A laugh. 886 Mutatis mutandis "England should at the first have declared boldly and firmly that she would support the weak against the strong, and always strengthen the cause of justice. Then all the weaker States would have looked up to England, and all the strong which had no ambitious schemes would have allied themselves with her. If Lord Palmerston had done this, France would have joined her; and Denmark would never have been partitioned. As he did not do this, the weaker States learnt, from the example of Denmark, that the timidity of England cut off all hopes of succour from her; so they ranged themselves either under Germany or France; and the credit of England is destroyed."
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he had failed to hear in the course of the discussion any practical course, other than that which they had pursued, pointed out as that which the Government ought to have adopted in relation to Denmark. As to the increase in our armaments, to which the noble Lord who had just spoken (Lord Robert Montagu) had alluded, they were in a great measure occasioned by the uncertainty which prevailed with regard to the policy of France, and until the key to that policy was discovered we should be more or less compelled to proceed in the same direction. The key to the policy of France was to be found in the fact that she wielded the power of the Pontifical Empire, and would have to pay the penalty of maintaining the brigand rule of Rome. Never had the French flag been so disgraced, so degraded and dragged in the mire as it had been in maintaining that brigand rule [ Laughter. 887
 MR. ROEBUCK : Sir, I will endeavour to recall the House to the subject which we are here to consider; and at the commencement I must say that I feel almost terror when I approach this great subject. I feel that every word—every word of common sense I mean—I feel that every word uttered in this House may have its echo outside, may fright the nations, and may be productive of most serious consequences. But amid the multitude of words that have been published upon this matter, I have felt that there was a very small quantity of truth. A Conference has met together; a great ceremony has been performed; but every man has seemed to
 888 889 890 plébiscite 891 892 893 894
 MR. HORSMAN : Sir, the House has now placed before it the case against the Government and the defence, in speeches of rare ability, which have left the partisans on either side little to desire as to the manner in which their respective champions have opened the battle on their behalf. With those who address themselves to this question merely in a spirit of partisanship—determined, as the right hon. Member for Bucks, to censure and eject a Government which has done nothing right; or, on the other hand, persuaded by the glowing speech of my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to applaud and support a Government which he has shown to have done nothing wrong—there may be little difficulty in deciding into which lobby they shall go. But, as my hon. Friend the Member for Rochdale truly stated at the beginning of this evening, there is a large section in this House, and I am sure there is a large section in the country, who are sufficiently impressed with the gravity of our position to be determined not to allow this to be made merely a question of the Treasury Bench; who are not so satisfied either of the entire justice of the attack on one side or with the sufficiency of the defence on the other, as to join upon this occasion in in-discrimate censure or any indiscriminate approval, and who are desirous, therefore, of looking further and deeper into the
 895 896 897 898 899 "That these facts call for the interposition of England in vindication of her own public faith and solemn engagements." 900 901 902 903 904 905 906 907 furore 908 909 casus belli 910 911 912 913 914 915 916 917 918
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD : Sir, late as the hour is, I trust the House, after the somewhat personal allusions of the right hon. Gentleman, will permit me to address a few words to them this evening. I must confess that among the many remarkable speeches I have heard the right hon. Gentleman deliver, that which he has made to-night has been the most extraordinary. For nearly two hours he has addressed the House, and until the last concluding sentences of his speech there must have been many Members who were perfectly in doubt as to the nature of the vote which the right hon. Gentleman was about to give; because, with singular impartiality, he first blamed the Government, told them their Administration was disastrous, and that their conduct had humiliated England; and then he turned round on the Opposition and said, "True, you have no responsibilities; but you are just as bad, and I have no confidence in you." But if the right hon. Gentleman's speech was singular in this respect, it was even more so by reason of the very novel theory which he broached as to the conduct of the foreign policy of the country. He told us—and I paid particular attention to his words—that in questions of foreign politics the office of the Government was merely Ministerial, until the House of Commons was possessed of the facts with which the Government had to deal. In seeking thus to convert the House of Commons into a Foreign Office, and to transfer to it the conduct of foreign affairs, I think the right hon. Gentleman, as well as the hon. and learned Gentleman the hon. Member for Sheffield, who went before him, have shown what the effect of such a transfer would be. What according to the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Roebuck) is to be the nature of the diplomatic language of this country: The hon. and learned Gentleman thinks that in transacting business of such a character in this House we should best conciliate Foreign Powers, and best consult the dignity of this country by applying to other nations such terms as "highwaymen" and "swindlers," while the right hon. Gentleman designated the parties with whom we had to deal as
 919 920 921 922 923 "Notwithstanding my opinions being so strong in favour of such a course as you suggest, if I take it, I will take it alone. I will not accede to your suggestion that I should act with you, because you have already led the French Government into embarrassment, and placed the Emperor in a position incompatible with his dignity." "General Fleury had informed M. d'Ewers and
 924 925 926 927 928 929 930 "You are without a policy. Here, at the meeting of Parliament, you had the opportunity of challenging the conduct of the Government. A very few days before the Government had made overtures to the French Government to go to war, and yet, on the assembling of Parliament, you, the Opposition, did not dare to challenge the policy of the Government and say whether you were for war or not."
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, If he can inform the House whether there is any truth in the report contained in  The Times
 MR. LAYARD : In reply to the Question of my noble Friend, I beg to state that no information of that nature has reached the Foreign Office.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether Police Constable 244 B, as to whom Mr. Arnold, the Magistrate at Westminster Police Court, publicly stated on two several occasions in the month of May last, that he could not believe him on his oath, or to that effect, is still continued in the Force?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that he did not know on what authority the hon. Gentleman had stated that Mr. Arnold had on two occasions made the statement attributed to him. Since he had seen the notice of the hon. Member's Question he had made inquiry, and he was informed to-day that though the cases had occurred in May, and it was now July, no representation had been made by Mr.
 825
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, To lay upon the table of the House a Return showing the number of Guns in store and in use of such a nature as the late experiments show can be effectually used against Armour-clad ships of the  Warrior
 MR. BAGWELL  said, he had opposed this Bill in every stage, and intended to continue his opposition, believing as he did that the measure was both unjust and impolitic: it was unjust because it gave to the landlord what was now the property of the occupier; and it was impolitic because it would create another incentive to crime in a country where agrarian crime was already too prevalent. By the existing law the power of prosecuting for trespass in pursuit of game was in the occupier, and this Bill would transfer it to the landlord
 932
 MR. DAWSON  said, that a very erroneous impression prevailed with regard to the Bill. It was thought that if it passed into law, all the powers and concomitant consequences of the English Game Laws would be thrust upon the people of Ireland. But he asserted nothing of the kind would be the case. The Bill only gave to the landlord a power which it was very extraordinary that he did not already possess—the power of preventing trespass in pursuit of game. He thought the Bill would be acceptable to both parties. The tenant was often unwilling to appear in court to prosecute a trespass in pursuit of game, and he would be glad to be relieved from the necessity of being a party to the prosecution. The present Bill was a measure of relief to the tenant, and was, he believed, so considered by the occupiers.
 MR. M'CANN  believed the Bill would be productive of great evil and mischief in Ireland. It was the introduction, with additions, of the English system of Game Laws into that country. It was quite true that no petitions had been presented against the Bill, but the fact was that the Irish people had given up petitioning, and were
 933
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he did not quite see how the hon. Member for Drogheda was out of order, for in arguing against the progress of a Bill he had a right to show how seriously it would affect the great bulk of the tenantry of Ireland. Every tenant in Ireland who happened not to have a lease—and they were the great bulk of the agricultural population—would be seriously affected by the Bill, and an opportunity ought to be given for more fully considering it. The Bill was said to be for the protection of the tenantry, but it was strange that they had never asked for it. He thought, therefore, that the Bill should be printed and circulated, so that the opinion of the country might be ascertained with respect to it. If it were true that the tenants in cases where prosecutions were required were unwilling or afraid to undertake those prosecutions, there might be some ground for the Bill; but there was no evidence that such was the case. If passed, it would make the law of Ireland more stringent than it was at present, and even more stringent than that of England. He had always contended for the assimilation of the laws of the two countries; but in the present case the worst parts of the law of both countries were picked out and embodied in the Bill, If anything was done in the matter, it ought to be done not by a private Member, but by the Government upon their own responsibility.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he was in favour of the principle of the Bill, which was to enable a landlord to proceed for trespass when the game belonged to him, but he did not desire to see the English Game Laws introduced into Ireland. He would suggest, however, that it would be better at this late period of the Session to withdraw the Bill, and introduce a new one next year.
 MR. W. R. ORMSBY GORE  said, he certainly would not accede to the sugges-
 934
 MR. O'HAGAN (THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND)  said, that the second clause would, by a side wind, displace the old law of the country, which required that where the landlord reserved the game to himself it should be done by a regular, written instrument. This was a serious innovation on the law, and he did not think it should be done by a side wind and without due consideration.
 MR. W. R. ORMSBY GORE  said, no doubt the proposed change in the law was a great alteration, but what were Members sent to that House for unless it was to alter the law? The game on land held from year to year was now virtually the landlord's property, yet if he wished to punish a trespasser he must go and ask the permission of the tenant; and if the latter gave his consent, he subjected himself to the ill-will of the person prosecuted. That was a position from which the tenant would be very glad to be freed.
 MR. MONSELL  said, that in certain instances the Bill as it stood would transfer the property in game from the tenant to the landlord, and that undoubtedly would be a great change; but he thought if the Amendment of which his hon. Friend the Member for Youghal (Mr. Butt) had given notice was adopted, it would remove all objections. Under that clause the landlord who retained his right to the game, would be enabled to vindicate his right himself. This would give him all the power that was necessary, without introducing any fundamental alteration in the existing law.
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, that the Game Laws in England and Ireland thirty five years ago were the same; but by the 1st William IV. not only was that right given to the landlord, which his hon. Friend by this Bill intended to give, but by retrospective legislation even existing contracts were altered, and that was going much further than it was now proposed to do. The Irish tenant was well disposed to preserve his landlord's game, but he complained that the present state of the law took from him both time and labour, and placed him in an invidious position towards his neighbour. The landlord had the beneficial ownership of the game at present, and this alteration of the law would merely enable him to enforce his right. He protested against a small portion of Gentlemen in that House setting themselves up as the exclusive champions of the Irish tenant.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, that as in a few months they would be probably sent before their constituents, if the hon. Member thought his Bill was so much desired by the Irish tenants, he could not do better than go before them with the cry of "My Game Bill."
 MR. W. R. ORMSBY GORE  said, it would be seen from the Amendment which he had put upon the paper, that he did not propose to take away any existing right. He went so far as to require that no prosecution should be instituted by any person except he had an exclusive right to the game.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, it was difficult to know what they were discussing. As the hon. Gentleman had himself put an Amendment of an important character upon the paper, he would suggest that the hon. Gentleman would do well to commit the Bill  pro formâ,
 MR. W. R. ORMSBY GORE  said, there was no difficulty in ascertaining what the nature of the Bill was. He was ready to maintain every existing right except that of prosecuting in the name of the tenants at will.
 LORD NAAS  said, that there was really but one clause in the Bill, and his hon. Friend proposed to substitute another which had been before the House for the last two months. The House, therefore, would gain nothing by committing the Bill  pro forma.
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, that where a landlord had reserved to himself the right to game it was in every instance an exclusive right. The Attorney General for Ireland would tell them that such was the case. It might, however, be better to insert a word which would make that clear, and his hon. Friend had no objection to do so.
 MR. O'HAGAN (THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND)  said, that there was not the slightest doubt that so far the law, as stated by the hon. and learned Gentleman, was correct.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that hon. Members who had no interest in land in Ireland were very liberal in dealing with other people's property; he should be very sorry if it were supposed that Ireland was represented by a few Gentlemen who came there and made speeches as an easy means of raising political capital. He did not think the Bill would be of much use; how-
 936
 MR. BAGWELL  said, he would put it to the House whether it was more vulgar to impute motives of the vilest kind to Gentlemen who were equal in social position to the hon. and gallant Member, or to do what hon. Gentlemen conceived to be their duty in that House.
 MR. M'CANN  said, they had heard a good many legal opinions, but the legal Gentlemen had not made the matter much clearer. The Bill gave no definition of game, which was an essential point, and he should therefore support the proposition of the Home Secretary.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN,  on behalf of the hon. and learned Member for Youghal (Mr. Butt), who was unavoidably absent, moved the following Amendment:
 "In line 11, after blank, insert, 'whenever any proceeding shall be instituted against any person to recover the penalty imposed by—." In line 15 to leave out, "shall be, and is hereby repealed," and insert, "it shall not be necessary to institute such proceeding, in the name or by the authority of the occupier of the land, upon which such person has entered, but same may be instituted by any persons legally entitled to the exclusive right of killing game upon such land; and in such case the leave and licence of the occupier or person entitled to the possession of such land shall not be a sufficient defence, but for the purpose of such proceeding the person entitled to the exclusive right of killing game shall be deemed the legal occupier of the land; but, in all other respects, the person charged with such trespass shall be at liberty to prove, by way of defence, any matter which would have been a defence to an action at law for such trespass, and no person shall be convicted of such offence who shall have entered upon such lands by leave and licence of the actual occupier in case it shall appear he had reasonable cause to believe that such occupier was entitled to authorise him to kill game on such land."
 MR. W. R. ORSMBY GORE  said, he approved the principle of the Amendment, which he had adopted in a new clause he
 937
 MR. BAGWELL  wished to know whether the hon. Gentleman would give a landlord who had the exclusive right of killing game the power of prosecuting trespassers or not.
 MR. ROEBUCK  suggested that it would be much better for the Committee to have the whole matter before them before they were called on for a decision. He defied any one to understand what was before the Committee. He would pass the Bill through Committee  pro forma,
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that he had recommended the same thing half an hour ago.
 MR. W. R. ORSMBY GORE  observed, that there could be no difficulty in understanding what was intended, as the new clause had been before the House for two months.
 MR. LONGFIELD  then said, that if the Amendment moved by the hon. Baronet the Member for Clare (Sir Colman O'Loghlen) were withdrawn, the promoters of the Bill were ready, when the Committee came to the consideration of the new clause in lieu of Clause 2, to alter it in a way which would be satisfactory to hon. Members on both sides of the House.
 MR. M'MAHON  objected to the insertion of "woodcock" and the other words which the hon. Gentleman had put on the paper—"snipes, quails, landrails, wild ducks, widgeon, and teal." Those did not constitute "game" in the true sense of the term. There could be no right of property in migratory birds, which were not bred under the care of keepers. They were not "game" under the law of England. If it was desired to assimilate the laws of the two countries, why should they be inserted? "Wild ducks, teal, and widgeon" were found in the Irish Act of 1787, but that was no reason why they should be inserted in the Irish Game Act of 1864.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, a man could not have property in migratory birds. Wild ducks, widgeon, and teal were the property of the Esquimaux for half the year.
 MR. W. R. ORSMBY GORE  said, that if the hon. and gallant Gentleman would accompany him to Ireland, he would show him twenty nests of wild ducks within a space not larger than that House.
 MR. M'MAHON  objected to the insertion of "wild ducks, widgeon, and teal." They were not game, and he hoped the Committee would not make them so.
 MR. W. R. ORSMBY GORE  said, wild ducks were included in the early part of the Bill, and by two Acts their eggs were made game.
 MR. BAGWELL  reminded the Committee that on some of the shores of Ireland, wild ducks formed a great resource for poor people.
 MR. LONGFIELD  explained that the Bill referred only to private property.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  understood that wild duck was included in the Bill only in connection with penalties for trespass.
 MR. ROEBUCK  asked why, in that case, they did not include all birds—a swallow for instance. [ A laugh, and
 MR. M'MAHON  said, that if the Committee agreed to the introduction of wild
 939
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, the Bill did not apply to the sea but to the land, which was private property.
 MR. M'CANN  said, there were landowners in Ireland who not only claimed a right to the seashore, but who also prevented persons from fishing at high water up to their land. Was it likely they would permit the poor to shoot wild ducks on the seashore if this Bill passed?
 MR. LONGFIELD  hoped the Committee would not suppose the Irish people lived on wild ducks.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  observed that, although wild ducks were included in the existing Irish law, they were not in the English law.
 MR. W. R. ORMSBY GORE  proposed that the word "deer" should be included in the clause.
 MR. BAGSHAW  objected. In some parts deer ran wild over the country, and often did great damage to the crops of poor people.
 MR. M'MAHON  asked if deer were not already sufficiently protected?
 MR. O'HAGAN  said, that deer in a gentleman's park were protected.
 MR. W. R. ORMSBY GORE,  in referring to the Act of William III., found that deer were sufficiently protected. He would, therefore, withdraw his proposal.
 MR. BAGWELL  opposed the clause, on the ground that there might be more than one person interested in the property who ought to have equal rights.
 MR. O'HAGAN  apprehended that, in such a case, the clause would not apply. It could only be brought into operation in cases where the landlord or lessor possessed an exclusive right.
 MAJOR STUART KNOX  asked if the clause would affect Church property.
 MR. O'HAGAN  thought that it would not apply to property of that description.
 MR. PACKE  said, that the whole subject should be taken up by Government. There were other crimes of a brutal and disgusting character, that required to be dealt with in any Bill that might be introduced. He should support the Motion for going into Committee.
 MR. PAGET  appealed to the hon. Member not to press the Bill. The Lord Chancellor had introduced a somewhat analogous measure into the other House, but owing to representations that were made, and opposition that was offered, that Bill had been withdrawn.
 MR. PAULL  said, he had abstained from pressing this Bill until now, because it was understood that the Lord Chancellor intended to deal with the subject to which it related. As the measure proposed by the Lord Chancellor had been withdrawn, he knew no reason why the Bill should not be proceeded with.
 MR. BAINES  said, that a large Trade Protection Society in the town he represented objected to the Bill, which would destroy a system of credit most essential to the comfort of the working classes in time of pressure.
 COLONEL FRENCH  did not think the opposition of a combination of Trade Protection Societies should prevail against the Bill.
 MR. AYRTON  would appeal to his hon. and learned Friend (Sir Colman O'Loghlen) not to accept the compromise which had been proposed to him by the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt). There was no objection on the part of those who opposed the Bill to increase punishment where such an increase was calculated to repress crime: that, however, was not the question before the House, but whether the punishment of flogging should be inflicted. Why, flogging was a mere kind of torture, and if the object was to torture, besides flogging they might just as well introduce the thumbscrew and scarification. The object of punishment was prevention of crime and not torture of the criminal. Believing this Bill to be a proceeding in the wrong direction, he hoped the House would stop it, in order that those who took an interest in the matter might proceed in a right direction to remedy the evils complained of. He did not see any necessity for plunging into this sort of legislation, which was calculated to brutalize the people and render them, in consequence of that brutalization, more likely to give way to their passions. He hoped the House would maintain the consistency of our criminal law, and not allow it to be frittered away by hasty and inconsiderate legislation.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield appeared to have a ready mode of settling in his own mind what he thought was good or bad, and of condemning what did not exactly suit his views. He had known the hon. and learned Member sufficiently long to know that he considered every one hopelessly incompetent to understand a subject but himself, and everybody who did not fall in with his peculiar views of jurisprudence must expect to be denounced as seeking to brutalize society. According to the hon. and learned Gentleman nobody has studied Bentham but himself; yet it was plain that the hon. and learned Gentleman was himself but imperfectly acquainted with the principles of that jurist. His hon. Friend (Sir Stafford Northcote) had not advocated that form of punishment for the crimes in question, namely, rapes with conspiracy and violence, merely on account of their enormity, but rather on account of its suitableness to check so aggravated and peculiar a kind of crime. Certain crimes implied motives in the criminal which they could not appeal to except by the terrors of corporal punishment. That was the argument of Bentham himself, although the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield did not appear to Mr. Roebuck
 944 prima facie 945
 MR. HUNT  said, he had supported the Bill of his right hon. Friend the Member for Staffordshire last year; but this Bill stood on an entirely different footing. He agreed that it was undesirable to inflict greater punishment than was sufficient; and if the existing punishment was proved to be insufficient, he should not be afraid to
 946
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he thought persons who committed this crime deserved flogging and something more, but he did not think the punishment of
 948
 MR. CLAY  said, he believed this was the first time that any proposition had been made to increase the measure of punishment without showing that the crime for which the punishment was intended had increased.
 MR. ROEBUCK  seconded the Amendment. This Bill proposed to introduce a very important alteration in our criminal code, and should not have been undertaken by a private Member without at least the co-operation of the Government; yet the House would observe that both the Home Secretary and the Attorney General, the two officials chiefly charged with the guardianship of our criminal law, were both absent. When the hon. Gentleman who had charge of the Bill talked of the enormity of the offence under consideration as justifying the infliction of a brutalizing punishment, he showed how totally ignorant he was of the principles of criminal legislation, and of the writings of our great jurists on such subjects. Jeremy Bentham laid it down that if the penalty of one penny would put an end to murder, all punishment beyond that was so much mischief done. That might be a new idea to
 943
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  would deprecate precipitate legislation on such a subject even if the crime were on the increase, which it was not. There were many cases in which great injustice might be done if this Bill were passed, and therefore he urged upon the House to consider the subject more fully before legislating upon it.
 MR. O'HAGAN (THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND)  said, that the absence of the Secretary of State was on public business, but he was authorized to speak the sentiments of his right hon. Friend as well as his own. They both concurred in the Amendment of the hon. and learned Baronet the Member for Clare (Sir Colman O'Loghlen). He considered sufficient grounds had not been shown for making the proposed change. The established principles of the criminal law should not be disturbed lightly and on temporary grounds; if altered, it should be altered in accordance with recognized and permanent principles. The object of punishment was simply the reformation of the criminal and the prevention of crime. Beccaria said long ago that certainty in regard to punishments was of more importance than severity; and that doctrine had been confirmed by experience in this very case. He agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, that wherever there was excess of punishment there was injustice in proportion to the excess. The hon. Gentleman opposite (Sir Stafford Northcote) had been guilty in this case of a  petitio principii.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he perceived that was so; but he grounded his objection to the Bill on the barbarous and retrograde principle which the Bill wished to introduce. No case had been made out for a change of the law. He moved that the Bill be committed that day three months.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  thought that such a Bill ought not to pass without grave consideration, even though it had come down from the other House. He did not think there had been such an expression of public opinion as justified such a measure. There had been no petitions praying for an alteration of the law; there had been no complaint on the part of the Judges that the existing law was not sufficiently stringent; nor had there been any increase of this crime since the law was last altered, that showed that such a measure was required. In 1861, after due consideration, the Legislature instead of increasing the punishment for rape gave the Judge power to reduce it by substituting three years of penal servitude or imprisonment in place of penal servitude for life. The official Returns showed that there had been no increase in crimes of that nature. Indeed, they were almost stationary, notwithstanding the increase of population. The number of persons charged with rape in 1853 was 136; in 1858 it was again 136; and in 1862 it was 131. In 1853 the assaults with intent to commit rape were 150; in 1858 they were 161; and in 1862 they were 157. That showed there was no necessity for this Bill, and no justification for altering their existing legislation, which had been settled after full consideration. Moreover, it should be remembered, that a charge of rape or attempt at rape was easily made, and often difficult to be disproved, and the enormous proportion of acquittals to convictions in these cases showed that the charge was frequently made to extort money, or for other improper purposes. But even had there been an increase in the crime he did not think they ought to revert to the penalty of flogging without
 942
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, the fourth clause met that objection.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  was prepared to say at once that he should accept the vote of the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt) on the condition he annexed to it, namely, that the operation of the Bill should be confined to cases in which more than one person was concerned in the commission of the crime. He was not answerable for the details of the Bill which was introduced into the other House, and had passed with the consent of the Lord Chancellor, and with the approval of several of the law Lords. He had taken charge of it, and had been led to believe that the Government were not unwilling that the subject should be considered. In fact, the Solicitor General, whose absence he regretted, had given him distinctly to understand that the Government did not disapprove but rather approved of its principle, though he thought Amendments were necessary. He was sorry to hear now from the Gentleman who spoke on behalf of the Home Secretary, that he was determined to oppose the Bill. He hoped, however, the House would support it. With regard to the severe criticism which had been made on the Bill by the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, he begged to say that he was not by any means certain that he had used the expression to which he alluded; but, in spite of his opinion and criticism, he maintained that they ought to take into consideration the enormity of the offence committed when they were apportioning punishment; and he believed that the proposed punishment in this case, while it would not be too severe, would produce certainty in its infliction, which would be a great advantage gained. He did not think that in aggravated cases of rape there would be any inclination on the part of juries to convict on account of the severity of the punishment. The course of mitigation of punishment of late years had been such that in many cases punishment was most disproportionate to the offence. In the cases of assaults upon young children, the offence was treated at present only as a misdemeanour. Now, could any one doubt that in such cases as
 947
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE,  in moving that the House go into Committee upon this Bill, said, he was anxious to explain that he did not hold himself responsible for all the details of the Bill; but, considering that the measure was one which deserved the attention of the House, he had consented to take charge of it. The Bill came down from the House of Lords. The crime of rape, they all knew, had recently been committed in a very aggravated manner in several instances, and a feeling had prevailed in many parts of the country that the offence had not been punished with due severity. He did not say that whipping would be a suitable punishment for all persons convicted of that crime; but there were cases, and among them those where several persons had acted in concert, in which it might
 941
 MR. T. G. BASING  said, in reply, that although there was a general concurrence in the advantages which the public would derive from the abolition of turnpike gates, there was great difficulty in the way of carrying the object into effect. The Committee had recommended an extended area of rating, considering that the maintenance of the turnpike roads when thrown upon certain parishes would be very hard. Government, however, were not prepared to introduce any measure on the subject during the present Session. With regard to the second question—namely, whether all Trusts free from debt should cease to be continued in the annual Continuance Act, the Committee declined giving any
 952
 SIR WILLIAM GALLWET  said, he would beg to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether certain Arcades and Galleries, until lately in the possession of the Kensington Royal Horticultural Society, have or are about to become the property of the State?
 MR. COWPER  said, in reply, that the Arcades, which were to be purchased by the Government in pursuance of a Vote of the House, were the subject of a deed which was not yet finally executed. Those Arcades were the property of the persons who sold them to the public; they were never the property of the Horticultural Society, nor were they included in their lease, but were portions of the buildings of the International Exhibition Building.
 SIR JAMES FBRGUSSON  opposed the Clause.
 MR. COWPER  replied that those buildings had always been intended to be purchased, and had been purchased.
 MR. LAYARD* : Mr. Speaker—I never rose in this House under a more painful sense of responsibility than I do this evening. It will be my duty to justify the conduct of a Department, one of the most important in the State, which I have the honour to represent—I fear very unworthily—in this House, and to vindicate the character of a statesman who has taken his place in history among those who have toiled most successfully in the cause of human freedom, and who has conferred eminent services on his country. Sir, I think it must be apparent to every Gentleman who has listened to this debate, that the attacks which have been made upon the Government have been mainly, if not exclusively, directed against the noble Lord at the head of the Foreign Office. I think I shall be able to show that he has been greatly misrepresented and wrongfully accused; that the extracts which have been brought forward are, I had almost said, to use the words of my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, garbled extracts, falsified extracts of despatches. ["Oh, oh!"] I trust hon. Gentlemen will wait until I can prove what I have said. ["Oh, oh!"] I have merely repeated words which have been used in this debate, and if I fail to prove what I have said I shall be open to the censure of the House. In order to do this I shall have to trespass somewhat at length on the patience of the House; but of this I am certain—that in an assembly of this kind, composed of Gentlemen of the highest character and honour, there is not a man who would not give me fair play and allow me to do the best I can to justify my noble Friend, and to show that the accusations are falsely brought against him.
 954 955 "Sa Majesté le Roi de Prusse s'engage â prendre part aux négotiations dont Sa Majesté le Roi de Danemark prendre l'initiative â l'effet de régler l'ordre de Succession dans les Etats râunis sous le sâeptre de Sa Majesté Danoise. Le présent Article Secret sera ratifié en môme temps que le Protocole signé ce jour, et lea ratifications en seront échangées simultanément. Fait â Berlin, ce 2 Juillet, 1850.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  rose to Order. The hon. Member was quoting
 956
 MR. LATARD : It is well known, for it has been before the public again and again. I believe that with that secret Article there is a curious secret history connected. If I am rightly informed, the Prussian Minister at that time in England, Baron Bunsen, was a violent Schleswig-Holsteiner, and, as it was apprehended by the Prussian Government that he would make many difficulties in carrying out his instructions, there was signed at Berlin this Secret Article, in conformity with the Protocol of London, on which the Treaty of London was afterwards founded. The second Article of the Protocol, as I have said, bore testimony to the wisdom of the King of Denmark in desiring to settle the succession, but no person was designated in the Protocol as his successor to the Crown in default of direct issue. There was no candidate who was specially favoured by the British Government, nor, as far as I am aware, by any other Power. All they desired was that some person whose claims to the succession were considered to be the best founded should be recognized by the King in a legal manner, and should be accepted by the Danish people and by the inhabitants of the Duchies as his successor, in the event of the failure of direct issue. The Treaty of 1852, which was entered into in accordance with this Protocol, was negotiated by Lord Malmesbury—and I was surprised to hear it stated in this House that, though that noble Lord signed the treaty when he came into office, he did so merely as a matter of form, as the treaty was in such an advanced stage that he could not avoid signing it. So far was that from being the case, that Lord Malmesbury carried on difficult negotiations in reference to it with much ability, received on its conclusion the thanks of the several parties to it; and in a despatch expressed his own satisfaction with its contents and his approval of its object. The treaty, be it remembered, was not a treaty of guarantee. It imposed no obligation on this country, except that of recognizing the person who should be chosen in a legal and constitutional manner as the successor of the then reigning King of Denmark. After it had been concluded it was officially communicated to the various German States which form the Confederation, and adhered to formally by all of them, except Bavaria and five of the
 957 958 plebiscite, plebiscite 959 960 Lex Regia 961 962
 LORD ROBERT CECIL : Sir, I rise to Order. The hon. Gentleman is referring to despatches which are not on the table, and his extracts from which we are unable to verify. That is, I submit, contrary to the practice of the House.
 MR. LAYABD : I have expressed my willingness to lay all these despatches on the table. I beg to ask, Sir, whether in that case I may not refer to them?
 MR. SPEAKER : The despatches should be laid on the table before the hon. Gentleman can quote from them.
 MR. LAYABD : I appeal to this side of the House, whether it is fair that I should be prevented from reading any of these despatches. ["Oh!" "Hear, hear!"] At least I may be permitted to say that there are in the Foreign Office seven large folio volumes of despatches, in which Lord Malmesbury uses terms almost identical with those afterwards employed by Earl Russell. Notwithstanding what, to use a word much in fashion just now, I may call his threats, Lord Malmesbury failed in obtaining the repeal of the Constitution of 1855. Earl Russell, on entering office, therefore succeeded to a  damnosa hœreditas, 963 "In compliance with the instructions contained in your Lordship's despatch of the 12th inst., I communicated to M. Thouvenel the substance of the instructions enclosed in that despatch to Mr. Paget and to Mr. Lowther, respecting the question of the Danish Duchies; and his Excellency has since informed me that he concurs entirely in your Lordship's views, which are those which the Imperial Government has advocated since the commencement of this vexed question."— Correspondence, "You will endeavour to agree with M. Thouvenel as to the instructions to be given to the English and French Ministers at Copenhagen, and send an identical telegram to Mr. Paget, so that Her Majesty's Government and the French Government may express the same opinion. I am glad M. Thouvenel concurs in the views of Her Majesty's Government."— Correspondence, 964 "In the middle of the summer of 1862 it appeared to Her Majesty's Government that the negotiation, instead of producing a settlement, had tended more and more towards bitterness and strife, leading probably in the end to a rupture. You may remember that in speaking to you at Brussels in the beginning of September, when I was proceeding to Germany, in attendance upon Her Majesty, I pointed out to you this state of things, and gave you an outline of the mode of settlement which had occurred to me. That mode of settlement was developed in my despatch of September 24, which you were charged to take to Copenhagen on your return to that Capital." — Correspondence, 965 966 "We concur entirely with him, and I am satisfied, with all reasonable men in Europe, including those in France and Russia, in desiring that the independence, the integrity, and the rights of Denmark may be maintained. We are convinced —I am convinced at least—that if any violent attempt were made to overthrow those rights and interfere with that independence, those who made the attempt would find in the result that it would not be Denmark alone with which they would have to contend."—[3  Hansard, 967 "Her Majesty's Government have heard with much concern that it is in contemplation to consider in the Diet at Frankfort, of a Federal Execution in Holstein. Without discussing the declaration of the King of Denmark, of the 30th of March, they instruct you to say that it is very desirable not to add to the existing complications and dangers of Europe. Austria and Prussia declined in 1861 to negotiate on the affairs of Holstein "without arranging those of Schleswig. But the affairs of Schleswig are matters of international concern, and should be discussed with the utmost calmness and deliberation by the Powers of Europe, and cannot be decided by the Diet of Frankfort."—No. 2, 73. "These matters are becoming serious. There can be little doubt that Denmark will regard the advance of German troops into Holstein as a hostile invasion, and not as a Federal Execution. It is also clear that she will be supported by Sweden." —No. 2, 114. 968 "You will communicate these views to Count Rechberg, and tell him that if Germany persists in confounding Schleswig and Holstein, other Powers of Europe may confound Holstein with Schleswig, and deny the right of Germany to interfere with the one any more than she has with the other, except as a European Power." "Such a pretension might be as dangerous to the independence and integrity of Germany as the invasion of Schleswig might be to the independence and integrity of Denmark. The calm consideration of the existing difficulties will, it is to be hoped, induce Austria to consult the European Towers before she impels the Diet to a definitive resolution."— Correspondence, "Paris, Aug. 1, 1863. "I have communicated to M. Drouyn de Lhuys, as authorized by your Lordship's telegram, your despatch of the 31st ult. to Lord Bloomfield, on the present phase of the question relating to the Danish Duchies. His Excellency expressed his approbation of your Lordship's wise advice, and said he would write in a similar sense,"—No. 2, 115. "I have caused M. de Katte to be informed that Her Majesty's Government have no intention of making any communication to the Danish Government, after the reception which was given to my suggestion of last year; but that if Austria and Prussia persist in advising the Confederation to make a Federal Execution now, they will do so against the advice already given by Her Majesty's Government, and must be responsible for the consequences, whatever they may be."—No. 2, 123. "But if the Diet take steps for a still further object, and invade Holstein for the purpose of compelling the King of Denmark to acknowledge certain rights, which the German Confederation claim as belonging to Schleswig by virtue of the arrangements of 1851–2, the Diet will be entering upon a grave European question, as to which they have no exclusive competency of decision, and on which it belongs quite as much to every other European Government to form an opinion and to pronounce a judgment."—No. 2, 123. 969 "Although not specially instructed to show M. Drouyn de Lhuys your Lordship's despatch of the 31st ult. to Mr. Lowther, stating that, in reply to a question of the Prussian Chargé d'Affaires, your Lordship had desired that gentleman to be informed that Her Majesty's Government had no intention of making any further communication to the Danish Government in order to persuade that Government to come to an understanding with the Diet, and giving the views of her Majesty's Government upon the general position of the Holstein question, I thought it advisable to read it to his Excellency. M. Drouyn de Lhuys said that he coincided in all your Lordship's opinions as expressed in that despatch. He had more than once sent instructions in a similar sense both to Vienna and to Berlin, and he would repeat them if on reference he found that the dates of the last were not very recent."—No. 2, 125. "The second mode of proceeding suggested by your Lordship—namely, 'to remind Austria, Prussia, and the German Diet that any acts on their part tending to weaken the integrity and independence of Denmark would be at variance with the 'Treaty of the 8th May, 1852'— would be in a great measure analogous to the course pursued by Great Britain and France in the Polish Question. He had no inclination (and he frankly avowed that he should so speak to the Emperor) to place France in the same position with reference to Germany as she had been placed with regard to Russia. The formal notes addressed by the three Powers to Russia had received an answer which literally meant nothing, and the position in which those three great Powers were now placed was anything but dignified, and if England and France were to address such a reminder as that proposed to Austria, Prussia, and the German Confederation, they must be prepared to go further, and to adopt a course of action more in accordance with the dignity of two great Powers than they were now doing in the Polish Question.—No. 2, 131. 970 "If the Government of the Emperor of the French are of opinion that any benefit would be likely to follow from an offer of good offices on the part of Great Britain and France, Her Majesty's Government would be ready to take that course. If, however, the Government of France would consider such a step as likely to be unavailing, the two Powers might remind Austria, Prussia, and the German Diet, that any act on their part tending to weaken the integrity and independence of Denmark would be at variance with the Treaty of the 8th of May, 1852."—No. 2, 130. "France was not, his Excellency said, by any means indifferent to the maintenance of the integrity and independence of Denmark, and it was not from any indifference that he disapproved your Lordship's suggestion. He had already represented to the German Powers, that if they invaded Holstein for the purpose of effecting a revolt in Schleswig, or if they went further and invaded Schleswig itself, they would be infringing on the rights of an independent Sovereign, and entering upon a grave question affecting the balance of power in Europe, to which France could not remain indifferent."—No. 2, 131. "Her Majesty could not see with indifference a military occupation of Holstein, which is only to cease upon terms injuriously affecting the constitution of the whole Danish monarchy. Her, Majesty's Government could not recognize this I military occupation as a legitimate exercise of the powers of the Confederation, or admit that it could properly be called a Federal Execution. Her Majesty's Government could not be indifferent to the bearing of such an act upon Denmark and upon European interests. Her Majesty's Government therefore earnestly entreat the German Diet to pause, and to submit the question in dispute between Germany and Denmark to the mediation of other Powers unconcerned in the controversy, but deeply concerned in the maintenance of the peace of Europe and the independence of Denmark."—No. 2, 145.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Will the hon. Gentleman be good enough to tell us what he calls misquoting a despatch?
 MR. LAYARD : I say that a despatch is misquoted when two sentences are read which have no relation to each other, and when the intervening sentence which connects them, and either alters or modifies their meaning, is left out. I will not trouble the House with what Russia has done in this matter, because nobody has ventured to assert that Russia has not acted cordially throughout these negotiations with Her Majesty's Government, and has not approved everything they have done. I come, therefore, to the next stage of the question; and here I have to notice another misquotation. The noble Lord the Member for Stamford (Lord Robert Cecil) the other evening accused the Government of having lost a golden opportunity for making peace, because Prussia had suggested both arbitration and mediation to Her Majesty's Government, who might have proposed either to Denmark and to the Diet, but failed to do so, and were therefore responsible for the effusion of blood that had afterwards taken place. 972 "As matters now stand, Her Majesty's Government have come to the conclusion that it is inexpedient for them, at all events for the present, to make any further proposal to the Diet.—No. 3, 193. "Although if the Governments of Austria and Prussia were to unite in inviting them to do so, and would undertake to support with all their influence at Frankfort a proposal which Her Majesty's Government might then make to the Diet, Her Majesty's Government, in their anxiety to spare no effort to avert from Germany the consequences which perseverance in her present course in regard to Holstein threatens to bring upon her, would not be indisposed to make a further attempt."—No. 3, 199. 973 and cries of 974 "The King's Government cannot therefore do otherwise than call Lord Russell's attention to the opportunity which there would be, in our opinion, for reserving our question for that Congress [the one proposed by the Emperor of the French]; or, if the meeting should not take place, for a special Conference of the Powers who signed the Treaty of London. Should obstacles, however, interfere with the collective action of the Powers, the King's Government will always be fortunate in being able to count upon the powerful mediation of Great Britain."—No, 3, 236. 975 "His Excellency (the French Minister) said that your Lordship's arguments appeared to him to be very conclusive, and the course which you proposed to pursue the right one. He had himself long ago insisted on the necessity of obtaining some more defined statement of the demands of Germany on Denmark, and until that should be effected, he felt it to be impossible to do more than to recommend moderation and prudence to the Danish Government."—No. 3, 379.
 MR. DISRAELI : What I said was, that it was as if the Sovereign had called Parliament together for the purpose of repealing the Act.
 MR. LAYARD : Surely the right hon. Gentleman said he had called on the King to make a  coup d'état. "The new Constitution, therefore, being without the requisite sanction of the Duchy of Schleswig, and being contrary to the engagement of the Crown of Denmark, ought, as far as Schleswig is concerned [not, be it observed, "the whole constitution"], to be repealed. How this is to be done it belongs to the King of Denmark, his Ministers and his Parliament, to decide. It is the wish of Her Majesty's Government that it should be done in the manner most suitable to the dignity and character of Denmark as a free and independent State."—No. 3, 385. 976 "In the meantime the French Minister at Copenhagen was, his Excellency said, instructed to give a general support to the counsels tendered by England and Russia to Denmark, although he had not been furnished with as detailed instructions as those given to Lord Wodehouse by Her Majesty's Government."—No. 4, 424. "It would be no less impossible for Her Majesty's Government to enter into any engagement, that if the Federal troops should not limit their operations to the Duchy of Holstein, but should on some pretence or other extend their operations to the Duchy of Schleswig, Her Majesty's Government would maintain an attitude of neutrality between Germany and Denmark."—No. 4, 413. suppressio veri. "I said to-day to M. Drouyn de Lhuys that I had heard a report that General Fleury had in-
 977 "Concert and co-operate with Her Majesty's Government for the purpose of maintaining the engagements of the Treaty of May, 1852, and especially of upholding the integrity of the Danish Monarchy." 978 Danish Papers, 979 "Count Apponyi and Count Bernstorff, in an interview I had with them on the 18th inst., contended, with an ominous identity of expression, that if the Danes resisted the occupation of Schleswig by the forces of Austria and Prussia, war must ensue; and that war would cancel all treaties, and sweep away the Treaty of London of May, 1852, together with other engagements. The primary intention of using this language seemed to be to induce Great Britain to persuade Denmark to admit the peaceable occupation of the Duchy of Schleswig. It is impossible for Her Majesty's Government to take any such course, and it is highly probable that resistance will be offered by the Danes to the occupation of Schleswig. But you will take care to remark to Count Rechberg, on every suitable occasion, that a war in Schleswig would not relieve Austria and Prussia from the obligations contracted towards England, France, Russia, Sweden, and other Powers of Europe, by the Treaty of London; that the Diet
 980 "Count Rechberg does not hesitate to admit the justice of the reasoning in your Lordship's despatch [the one I have just quoted]; but he said that, after long and patient negotiations with Denmark, Germany could hardly be accused of haste in adopting the late decisions."—No. 4, 597. 981 "I must request you, before you require on the 12th instant that the answer should be given on that day, to state to M. Monrad and M. Quaade the very great imprudence, in the opinion of Her Majesty's Government, of throwing away a fair chance of settling a question in regard to which the whole of the Powers of Germany are ready to contend in arms against Denmark; and neither France, nor Great Britain, nor Russia, nor Sweden are ready in present circumstances to fight in her support."—No. 5, 780. 982 "Her Majesty's Government are glad to find from these despatches, as well as from M. Quaade's despatch of the 18th instant to the Danish Minister in London, of which a copy is inclosed in your despatch of that date, that the Danish Government accept the proposal for a Conference which you were instructed to make to them, and do not insist upon the formal recognition, by the Governments of Austria and Prussia, of the arrangements of 1851 and 1852, as the basis on which the Conference is to deliberate." —No. 5, S18. 983 "That the line was proposed by Earl Russell in his capacity of President of the Conference, on the result of the previous understanding which had been come to by the Representatives of the neutral Powers." 984 "Yes; I heard Earl Russell say that the French Government had again declined to go to war for Denmark; and would anybody believe that such a statement would have been made by France otherwise than in answer to a question from our Government?" 985 "Humbly to submit to Her Majesty that these facts demand the interposition of England in vindication of her own public faith and solemn engagements." "The House will be astonished to hear what I have to state to it. The Motion of my hon. Friend (Mr. Hennessy) was made on the 27th of February. But what was the date of Lord Russell's condemnation of the conduct of Russia? Why, the 21st of February. What was the date of the letter which has been so complained of with reference to the conduct of Prussia? The 18th of February. What was the date of Lord Russell's despatch seeking for concert and harmonious action with the Emperor of the French? The 27th of February—the very day of the debate. When the right hon. Gentleman again attempts to defend a Government on the ground that a course of policy has been forced upon them by the Opposition, I hope he will take care to be more accurate in his dates." 986 "In reply to your despatch of the 16th instant, mentioning the nomination of Commissioners for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of the military conventions between Russia and Prussia for the suppression of this insurrection in Poland, I have to instruct you to endeavour to procure and transmit to Her Majesty's Government a copy of the Convention in question." "The French Ambassador has just called upon me to say that the Government of the Emperor, although not in possession of the text of the Convention between Russia and Prussia, know enough of its purport to form an opinion unfavourable to the prudence and opportuneness of that Convention. The French Government consider that the Government of the King of Prussia have by their conduct revived the Polish Question. They consider this measure all the more imprudent, inasmuch as the Polish Provinces of Prussia are represented as perfectly tranquil. The French Government consider, also, that the Government of Russia should be advised to appease irritation, and calm the discontent prevailing by measures of conciliation and mildness. The French Ambassador has no orders to propose any concert with the British Government, but he is instructed to ask whether the views which he had explained were conformable to those entertained by Her Majesty's Government. I informed him that Her Majesty's Government entertained precisely the views which he had explained on the part of his Government." 987 "Great Britain, therefore, as a party to the Treaty of 1815, and as a Power deeply interested in the tranquillity of Europe, deems itself entitled to express its opinion upon the events now taking place, and is anxious to do so in the most friendly spirit towards Russia, and with a sincere desire to promote the interest of all the parties concerned. Why should not His Imperial Majesty, whose benevolence is generally and cheerfully acknowledged, put an end at once to this bloody conflict by proclaiming mercifully an immediate and unconditional amnesty to his revolted Polish subjects, and at the same time announce his intention to replace without delay his Kingdom of Poland in possession of the political and civil privileges which were granted to it by the Emperor Alexander I., in execution of the stipulations of the Treaty of 1815? If this were done, a National Diet and a National Administration would, in all probability, content the Poles and satisfy European opinion." 988 "I will venture to give him (Mr. Hennessy) this advice, either to proceed with his Address, or, yielding to what I think is the general feeling of the House, and for the sake of unanimity, to withdraw it, but not on account of false scruples to consent to have the Address which he has proposed in a very spirited manner, and which very effectively represents his sentiments, emasculated in its language or changed in its expressions." [3  Hansard, clxix, pur et simple. 989 990 991 992 The Morning 993 Standard. 994 "I emphatically declare that you have tarnished the honour of the country. I appeal to every Englishman, let his party be what it may, whether he has not felt the deepest humiliation at seeing a small country, which we have promised to protect, overwhelmed by stronger Powers." "If such a thing had occurred in common life, the greatest coward in the world would have rushed forward to protect the weak against the strong without even asking what the cause of quarrel was." "I see no reason why the Foreign Minister should not be guided in the affairs of his office by exactly the same principles." 995 996 997 998 999
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : Sir, I do not wonder that the House—or at least a part of it—should have received with cheers the first defence that has been made for the despatches of the Government. ["Oh, oh!"] I repeat it—the first defence that has been made throughout this debate of the despatches of the Government. It might be supposed from the speech of the hon. Gentleman, that the whole world has been under a delusion as to the conduct of the Foreign Secretary, that there has been no feeling either in England or in Europe that this country has directed against other nations threats which it had no intention of enforcing—indeed, according to the hon. Member, they were not meant as threats, though they bore that appearance in order to influence the conduct of foreign Governments. 1000 and Cheers, 1001
 MR. HORSMAN : I said that was the result of our diplomacy last year with regard to Poland.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : Yes, but then followed the words, "that we had taught the Germans that we were a nation of bullies, who were willing always to bully, but would never fight."
 MR. HORSMAN : I did not use those words. The word "bully" never came out of my mouth. ["Oh, oh!"] ["Yes, yes."]
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : I do not wish to put words which he did not use into the right hon. Gentleman's mouth, but I am quoting from a report which I believe to be correct. Sir, the right hon. Gentleman while he spoke was much cheered from certain quarters. I was myself struck by the enthusiastic cheers with which the conclusion of his speech was received by hon. Gentlemen who sit behind the Ministers. And yet he treated those Ministers as a master treats a spaniel in disgrace; he flogged them unmercifully, but they cheered him after all, because he ended by promising them that which they believe the best of all things—his vote. Having got a promise of his vote they had got everything they required. The right
 1002 1003
 MR. LAYARD : I said nothing of the kind. ["Order!"]
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : The hon. Gentleman has used language, with respect to Gentlemen on this side of the House, that does no credit either to him or the Government he represents; and now, when the hon. Gentleman is convicted of a misstatement which has been made in the hearing of the House, he gets up and interrupts, though my Friends sat still when he made a calumnious statement—["Order, order!"]
 MR. LAYARD : I rise to Order. I move that the words just used by the hon. Gentleman be taken down. I refer to the words, "calumnious statement." ["Order!" "Chair!"]
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : If I am out of Order, I shall be told so by you, Sir.
 MR. SPEAKER : There did not appear to me to be anything calling for my interference.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I rise to Order. ["Oh, oh!" "Chair, chair!"] I apprehend that it is a fundamental rule governing the debates in this House, that motives shall not be imputed to Members. I appeal to you, Sir, whether, when one Member imputes to another that he has made a calumnious statement, it does not imply that he made this statement with the motive of distorting the truth? [ Lord cries of
 MR. DISRAELI : I rise to speak to the point of Order. Having listened to this debate, I understood that the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs charged Gentlemen on this side of the House with falsification; and Gentlemen on this side of the House, though conscious that they did not merit the charge, yet not wishing to disturb the order of the debate, were content to remain quiet until the proper time should arrive to repel the charge in terms befitting the accusation, and to ex-
 1004
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  [who was received with  loud cries of
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I think it right, after what has fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, to state that I myself heard—and I must say heard with feelings of deep indignation—the word "falsification" from the lips of the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs; and at the time I said across the House that the word was too bad. I say that if the hon. Gentleman is to be allowed to accuse us on this side of falsification, we have a right to call that
 1005
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : I rise to speak to Order, and to make a respectful and moderate appeal to the House. I do so, Sir, in support of your just authority. After you were appealed to by an hon. Member in this House, and after you had laid down the law as you did in your usual straightforward manner, I put it to the House whether we are not imperilling our just influence in the affairs of Europe and this country if, when you have given your decision that a speaker, on whatever side of the House he may be, is perfectly in order, any other Member is to get up and dispute your decision, and endeavour to overrule it. Such, Sir, is not my idea of the way of preserving order, and I am surprised that the Leader of this House should endeavour to bring your authority into discredit. ["Cheers"  and
 MR. SPEAKER : I am sure that the hon. Member for Leominster (Mr. Gathorne Hardy) would be the last man in this House to impute motives to any man. Certainly, the debate has been a very warm and exciting one; but it would be putting the House in a false position if heated language on one side is to be a justification for language passing the bounds of order on the other. Undoubtedly, any words imputing motives to an hon. Member are contrary to the rules of this House. What has passed in explanation of this matter has, in some degree, altered the case. I mean, it is now alleged that language which rather passes the ordinary rules of debate has been used in consequence of similar language having been used previously. The debate has certainly been a heated one, but I confess, as it was going on, there did not appear to me any necessity for interposition on my part. I trust that the hon. Member for Leominster did not intend to impute motives, which would be of an un-Parliamentary nature by his statement. It did not appear to me to be necessary under the circumstances that I should interfere. However, after what has occurred, I trust the House will return to a calmer spirit, and that no exciting language will be used on any side which passes the proper bounds of debate.
 MR. LAYARD  (who was imperfectly heard) was understood to say—I wish to express regret to my hon. Friend if I have occasioned any misunderstanding. I did not use the word "falsification" as my own
 1006
 MR. HORSMAN : I wish to speak upon another point of Order. ["Oh, oh!"] The hon. Member for Leominster a few minutes ago holding in his hands the Motion of which I gave notice in March ["Order!" "Chair!"], has incorrectly described it. Let him read the exact terms of my Motion.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : I trust that neither now nor on any other occasion shall I be wanting in respect to the Chair, and to the character and dignity of this House, but I cannot help saying that, on the first night of the debate, language was used by the Chancellor of the Exchequer—[ cheers.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  rose to Order. The hon. Gentleman had no right to refer to what had been said on a former occasion. [ Cries of
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : I have only to observe that, without imputing motives either to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, or to the hon. Gentleman opposite, what I meant to say, and should still say if the charge had not been retracted, is that to accuse this side of the House of falsifying anything is a calumny, by whomsoever it be uttered. I repeat that in saying so I do not impute motives. It is not necessary. A calumny may be uttered for various reasons without the person who does it being at all influenced by a desire to depreciate or injure any one. The statement made was one which wounds the honour of Gentlemen on this side of the House. The hon. Gentleman had no need to apologize to me; I ask for no apology. I do not attribute either to the right hon. Gentleman opposite, or to the Under Secretary, anything wilful, nor anything except that in the heat of debate they used words which wound the honour and feelings of Gentlemen on this side of the House. 1007 "In the opinion of the House, Her Majesty ought not to be advised to give Her assent to any new engagements affecting the integrity and independence of Denmark until these engagements have been made known to Parliament." 1008 1009 in extenso 1010 1011 "His Lordship will see by this document that, having decided on taking the step which had been so earnestly suggested to us, the King's Government has done it frankly and without reservation." "I am informed that the French Minister at Copenhagen will be instructed to press upon the Danish Government the expediency, more especially at the present time, of acting with the greatest prudence and caution in regard to the Holstein question."—No. 2, 18. 1012 "Upon the 18th of January, 1864, we knew that France would not give material assistance to Denmark, and from that time I defy any man to find one word in the despatches threatening Germany." 1013 "I fully expect that the vote will be taken to-day, as the members of the Diet all have their instructions, and there is not time to ask for fresh ones from their Governments. There can, however, be no doubt that the language held by your Lordship will cause all the forms of delay which the Diet's rules allowed to be observed; and though irritation will be felt at the intervention, especially by the smaller States, I am convinced that a great and salutary effect will be produced."—No. 3, 148, "I have just learnt that the Diet's vote on the report on the Danish Duchies has taken place. The three weeks allowed to Denmark for notifying compliance with the demands of the Diet thus voted will reckon from the date of the communication of the protocol to the States directed to enforce the execution."—No. 3, 149. "I am bound to say that there is a wonderful indifference to our representations, while they are at the same time resented as interfering with a cherished project. There is an absolute persuasion that England will not interfere materially, and our counsels, regarded as unfriendly, have no weight."—No. 4, 416. 1014 "I regret also, with reference to the representations which I have made by your Lordship's order to M. de Bismark during the last fortnight, on other subjects connected with the question, that I have failed in obtaining a compliance with the wishes of Her Majesty's Government. I was instructed to suggest that time should be allowed Lord Wodehouse to negotiate with the Danish Government before the Federal Execution is carried into effect The Execution will take place in six days after his Lordship's arrival at Copenhagen. I was instructed to express the hope of Her Majesty's Government that no disputed territory on the frontier or at Rendshurg would be occupied. Rendsburg will be occupied, with the exception of that portion which is on the north bank of the Eider. I was instructed to state that the Execution should only take place for Federal obligations violated. The Execution will take place (I am willing, however, to admit, on grounds of expediency, to avoid a question of serious domestic embarrassment in Germany) in virtue of a decree of the German Diet, against which Her Majesty's Government have formally remonstrated at Frankfort, by a despatch communicated officially to the Governments of Austria and Prussia."—No. 4, 391. "Advise Austria, Prussia, and the other Powers who signed the Treaty of London, to adhere to their engagements, and to advise Denmark to observe all the engagements she has taken to Germany."—No. 3, 293. "As the Diet seems determined to proceed with the proposed Execution in Holstein, Her Majesty's Government consider it to be of great importance
 1015 de facto 1016 "With respect to the two questions put by Prince Gortschakoff, and reported in your despatch of the 26th ultimo, in regard to 'concert' and 'co-operation,' the Prince must see that it would be premature to pretend to answer them at present. The very object of the 'concert' proposed would be to settle the nature and extent of the material assistance to be afforded in order to maintain the integrity of Denmark. With regard to the second question, likewise, it must result from the communications received whether Her Majesty's Government would only act with all the other Powers, or with some of them or alone."—No. 5, 674. 1017 1018 1019 ultimatum ultimatum 1020 1021 "A sentiment exists to the effect that the noble Lord, notwithstanding his distinguished abilities, is not altogether as prudent as he is able in the management of the foreign affairs of the country. There prevails an opinion or a suspicion that during the time when the administration of affairs has been in the hands of the noble Lord, the country
 1022 Hansard, 1023
 MR. HORSMAN : I must apologize to the hon. Member for interrupting him when he quoted me as saying that we had
 1024 The Times.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID * 1025 1026 "Great Britain had warned Austria of these dangers; that Prussia and Germany had likewise been warned; but that the voice of England was unheeded, and that little time was now left for counsel, wisdom, and moderation, tie hoped it would not be thrown away."—No. 4, 535. 1027 Post hoc, ergo propter hoc, ante hoc, ergo non propter hoc, 1028 1029 1030 Chari 1031 vari
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he had no desire to sneak into the lobby with anybody, but wished to state the grounds upon which he proposed to give his vote on the Motion before the House. The House must have been a good deal struck with the contrast which the present discussion had offered to many others which had preceded it, from the large amount of interest which it had excited. A great many attempts had been made during former Sessions and during the present Session to get up party discussions and party divisions; but they had always signally failed, and the comparatively small numbers that could be mustered for these occasions, had shown that the influence of party had pretty nearly ceased to exist in that House. ["No, no!"] Hon. Gentleman said "No, no!" but he wished they would let him finish his sentence. The result of what had taken place on every previous occasion had shown that neither the party attacking the Government, nor the Government attempting to defend themselves, had been able on a mere party question to assemble around them more than a very small number of supporters. For the accuracy of that statement he would appeal to the division lists, and he ventured to say that no hon. Member pre-
 1032 1033 1034 1035 1036 1037 and Cheers.
 MR. COGAN  said, that the insinuation
 1038 1039 "I, demens, et sævas curre per Alpes Ut pueris placeas et declamatio fias." 1040 ad rem. 1041
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, that it must have been a great treat to the Government to have received that night both the speech and vote of an independent Member, for up to that moment almost every Member who had spoken in that debate had condemned the policy of the Government, though some of them had promised to ad-
 1042 1043 plebiscite
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : Sir, the House will naturally, on an occasion of this sort, look with some anxiety for an explanation of the reasons why the conduct of the Government is disapproved, and of the different course of action by which the grounds of censure might have been obviated. It is the penalty of want of success that everybody immediately sets
 1044 1045 '"Twould seem the old world, retiring from the view, Came here in silence and brought forth a new." 1046 1047 "I have to state to you that the line of policy to be pursued by Her Majesty's Government in the questions at issue between Denmark and Ger-
 1048 status quo. "Thus much Her Majesty's Government consider themselves entitled to ask in behalf of the peace of Europe. They are not interested for Denmark otherwise than as one of the independent monarchies of Europe; but they are interested for European peace. They, therefore, entreat the Sovereigns and their Cabinets to consider how difficult it may be to compose differences once delivered over to the bloody arbitrament of war. Who shall say how far such a war may extend, what aspirations it may excite, what regions may be visited by its devastations. It matters comparatively little in itself whether a Prince of the House of Glucksburg or a Prince of the House of Augustenburg should reign in Holstein or in Schleswig. Under either Prince the liberties and privileges of his subjects may be adequately secured. But it matters much that the faith of treaties should be maintained, that right and possession should be respected, and that the flames of war should not be spread over Europe by questions which a calm and timely exercise of justice and reason might bring to a peaceful solution."—No. 4, 464. 1049 1050 1051 1052 "It cannot, I think, be otherwise than a matter for unmitigated regret to all who are sincerely
 1053 1054 "Germany is not ignorant that the Schleswig question partakes of an international character; and that the non-German Powers, Russia, France, and England, have an equal interest in the maintenance of the independence and integrity of the Danish Monarchy. … If the Cabinet of London thought fit, on its part, to re-assure the Danish Government on the result in the event of war, its representative at Copenhagen would meet with the most sincere co-operation on the part of the Baron de Nicolay."—No. 2, 133. "Our line of conduct has long been decided upon, and I have every reason to hope that we S shall not be left to our own resources in a struggle in which not only the fate of Denmark, but also the most sacred interests of the entire North, are I involved."—No. 2, 127." "Earl Russell expressed the difficulty of saying I precisely what steps would have to be taken by other Governments were the Germanic Confedera-
 1055 "That Her Majesty's Government set the highest value on the independence and integrity of Denmark, and were ready to offer their good offices to the two parties about to contend in arms. Her Majesty's Government would be ready to do so in conjunction with France or alone. But the course which Her Majesty might be advised to take with regard to these matters, if the good offices of Her Majesty's Government should be unsuccessful, must be the subject of future consideration and decision,"—No. 2, 137. 1056 "His Excellency went on to observe that, although a war with Germany would undoubtedly be a misfortune now as at any time, the present moment was perhaps as favourable for Denmark, and as unfavourable for Germany, as any that would occur; that it was impossible for Denmark to live under a continual menace of hostilities; that Sweden was with her; that the public feeling of England, France, and Europe in general was roused in favour of Denmark at this moment. If, therefore, the question must be settled by an appeal to arms, it had better be so now; and he felt convinced, he said, that Denmark and Sweden would not stand alone."—No. 3, 159. "There was one other condition on which the Patent could be withdrawn—namely, that England and France would give to the Danish Government a formal promise to support them against any further demands of Germany." "I said I did not think much would be obtained by forwarding this message; but I suggested, as an idea of my own—though, in doing so, I was taking a great responsibility on myself—that the Danish Government might state to the Diet at the time of withdrawing the Patent that they would only enter into negotiations with Germany on matters which would embrace the other portions of the monarchy, on condition that all the Powers who signed the Convention of London should take part in them." 1057 1058 1059 "I entreated his Excellency to weigh well the gravity of the dangers which threatened Denmark. General Fleury had informed M. d'Ewers and me that he was instructed to tell the Danish Government that France would not go to war to support Denmark against Germany. It was my duty to declare to him that if the Danish Government rejected our advice Her Majesty's Government must leave Denmark to encounter Germany on her own responsibility. Surely there was nothing inconsistent with the honour of Denmark in yielding to the united counsels of England, France, and Russia?" "M. d'Ewers said that M. Hall would do the Russian Government the justice to admit that they had never varied in their language. They had constantly warned the Danish Government against the hazardous policy which they were pursuing. He pointed out forcibly the perilous situation in which Denmark was placed, and concluded by saying that he was instructed to declare in explicit terms that Russia must leave to Denmark the responsibility of the consequences which might ensue from the rejection of our advice." —No. 4, 418. 1060 1061 1062 1063
 LORD JOHN MANNERS : Sir, there are two facts which have presented themselves in the course of this debate. We are now approaching the close of the third night of the debate, and as far as I know only one independent Member has been found to vindicate the policy of the Government. The other fact is, that the hope of external aid in debate having failed, recourse has been had to extreme audacity on the part of the Treasury Bench. When the other night the Chancellor of the Exchequer denied that England had lost any prestige or moral power, and alluded to the ribald trash of some obscure French journals as the only quarters where such suggestions would be found, I thought the statement approached the sublime of audacity. When, too, the Chancellor of the Exchequer asserted that from the moment
 1064 1065 Civis Romanus 1066 "No joys to him pacific sceptres yield— "War sounds the trump—he rushes to the field." 1067 1068 "I do not myself anticipate any immediate danger or, indeed, any of that remote danger which the hon. Gentleman seems to think imperils the peace of Europe arising out of the Danish and Holstein question,"—[3  Hansard, 1069 1070 "The Channel squadron was now in the Downs. The ships were very nearly completely supplied, and were perfectly ready to proceed to any part of the world in twenty-four hours. With respect to the iron ships, although they had not been docked since their return from their winter I cruise, yet they had all been docked within a few months."—[3  Hansard, The Times "The English funds this morning opened at a decline of a quarter per cent from the low prices of Saturday, and subsequently experienced a further fall. … The intimation that it will probably be found necessary to employ the British fleet to arrest the Prussians in their career of dishonesty contributed to the general heaviness, but at the same time there was a universal feeling of satisfaction that this method of dealing with offenders who have shown themselves totally incapable of being touched by any moral considerations has at length been resolved upon." The Times 1071 Trent.
 MR. ONSLOW,  in rising to second the Motion for the adjournment, said, that hav-
 1072
 MR. HENNESSY : Sir, before this debate is adjourned, I trust I may be allowed to call the attention of the House to a circumstance which may, at all events, have the effect of inducing the members of Her Majesty's Government in future to pay the deference which I think is due to the Chair. I find that the noble Viscount at the head of the Government, on the 27th of April, 1855, in addressing this House used the following words:—"Every reasonable man must have been convinced that the charges made by the hon. Member were false and calumnious." Who was the Member referred to by the noble Viscount? The Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs. Sir, the noble Viscount was called to order by an hon. Member who then sat below the gangway. Your predecessor decided the noble Viscount was in order, and yet we have to-night been witnesses of an extraordinary scene in which the noble Viscount took a conspicuous part. [ Cries of "MR. OTWAY rose to order. He respectfully submitted the noble Viscount had used words which were altogether un-Parliamentary when he charged another Member with stating that which was false and calumnious." 1073 "Mr. SPEAKER: What I understood the noble Viscount to say was, that the charges made by the hon. Member for Aylesbury (Mr. Layard) were false and calumnious. [ Cheers." "VISCOUNT PALMERSTON: Sir, I repeat what I was about to say. [ Loud cheering.
 MR. HENNESSY : And yet, Sir, the same noble Viscount who used that language in the House towards the hon. Member for Southwark rose to-night, not only to call to order an hon. Gentleman who used a similar, and, indeed, identical phrase, but actually to call into question the decision of the Speaker of the House of Commons.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I apprehend that upon the occasion quoted by the hon. Gentleman I applied those terms not to my hon. Friend the Member for Southwark, but to the charges which had been made by some other person. [ Cries of
 MR. DISRAELI : As far as I have been able to collect the general feeling of the House on both sides, I believe it is their wish that the debate should be concluded to-morrow. That is the general understanding.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that the Amendments were so confusing that it would probably accomplish none of the purposes for which it was brought in. There was so much discoid raging in that House, that it was impossible to introduce any harmony into it, but as it was extremly likely to be rejected in another place he should not trouble the House by dividing against it. He (Mr. Ayrton) repeated his opinion that the Bill was utterly unnecessary and absurd, and was a miserable instance of class legislation.
 MR. SUTTON WESTERN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is his intention to introduce a measure founded upon the recommendations contained in the Report of the Select Committee appointed to inquire into the expediency and practicability of abolishing Turnpike Gates; and, if not, whether he will consent to leave out of the Continuance Act those Trusts that are free from debt?
 SIR WILLIAM GALLWEY  said, he must beg to repeat his question with reference to the buildings which were portions of the Exhibition Building of 1862.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  opposed the Bill, on the ground that there were innumerable instances of terrible nuisances that were not affected by the Bill, and he Moved that it be read a third time that day three months.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether he has any objection to lay upon the table of the House a statement showing the number of Officers and Soldiers of the Regular Forces, as well ns of the Militia and Volunteers, who have been killed or wounded, up to the last Returns, in the New Zealand War?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  replied that there would be no objection on his part to give a statement of the officers and men of the Regular Forces killed or wounded up to the last Returns in the Now Zealand war, and he had no doubt that the Colonial Office would be willing to give a similar statement with respect to the Militia and Volunteers.
 GENERAL PEEL : I wish to give the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary the opportunity of correcting a great inaccuracy into which he fell in his quotation from my speech, and which he gave on the authority of his own notes. I do not object to the first part of it—namely, "if such a thing occurred in common life the greatest coward in the world would rush forward to protect the weak against the strong, without even asking the cause of the quarrel." But the hon. Member then omitted four distinct sentences, and then quoted as follows:—"I see no reason why the Foreign Minister should not be guided in the affairs of his office by exactly the same principles." But what did say was this, "I was anxious to maintain the honour and peace of the country," and I added, "I see no reason why the Foreign Minister of this country should not be guided in the affairs of his office by exactly the same principles as those which would guide his conduct in private life."
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, that when he first heard that it was impossible for Parliament to separate without expressing some opinion upon the Danish Question, he felt it difficult to deny the propriety of such a course; but, at the same time, he felt a secret misgiving as to the nature of the advantage that was to be derived from it. That misgiving was founded upon the remark of a very eminent statesman who once held a distinguished position in this country—that he never felt thoroughly alarmed when he parted with his colleagues, except when they had all come to a determination that something must be done. The same difficulty applied to a determination that something must be said when they had no definite idea as to the nature of what that something must be. Every person who had spoken appeared to be anxious to relieve himself of the responsibility of saying anything in favour of war. Indeed, one hon. Member went so far as to declare that it would be absolute insanity to go to war with Germany for the sake of the Duchies. It was hardly necessary for any man of average common sense to say that he was averse to war, but, at the same time, it would be very im-
 1246 1247
 THE O'DONOGHUE  said, the Motion of the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire censured the Government for having failed in their avowed policy of maintaining the integrity and independence of Denmark. The Amendment of the hon. Mem-
 1248 1249 1250
 MR. KINGLAKE , who attempted to address the House in explanation, but was prevented proceeding by the impatience of the House, then moved his Amendment.
 LORD ELCHO : No doubt the noble Lord will give a satisfactory answer to the question just put to him, though it may perhaps not prove to be satisfactory to the hon. Member. As a disinterested spectator of a party struggle, I am anxious very shortly to explain my views on the question submitted to the consideration of the House. The hon. Member for Liskeard (Mr. Osborne), in an amusing speech resembling a pyrotechnic display, which dazzles the eyes and pleases the senses of the spectators, but which when examined for argument offers nothing but a few bits of burnt paper and charred stick, said that the House had been drenched and saturated with despatches and quotations from the blue-books. As far as I am concerned, I can promise not to cite any single passage from any one of these 1,500 pages which the right hon. Gentleman the late Chancellor of the Exchequer told us he had studied with so much care, but which the present Chancellor of the Exchequer showed that he had studied to little profit. I readily admit that this country stands in a disagreeable position. Failure in a just cause, and even in a bad cause, is always disagreeable; but, because the negotiations have failed, I cannot see any justice in carrying a Vote of Censure against the Government; and if I had any doubt on this point in my mind, it would have been removed by the course of the present discussion. It was my good fortune to listen to the great gladiatorial contest between the right hon. Gentleman the Member for
 1241 retiarius 1242 1243 arrière pensée 1244 Trent The Times 1245 Charles et Georges,
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether any official information has been received of Major Gordon's retirement from the command of the Anglo-Chinese disciplined force, in compliance with the terms of the Order in Council of March last, or whether any "secret orders," or reservations, or discretionary powers, were conveyed to Major Gordon or any other English officer in China along with such Order in Council; and, if so, whether there be any objection to state the nature of such secret orders or reservations, and under what circumstances such discretionary powers were to be exercised?
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : I beg to say that that was spoken in answer to a question from the right hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he rose to ask, Whether the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs can now inform the House whether the statement, which has appeared in  The Times,
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he agreed with the right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken, that the two most important points to remember in this debate were the relations of Schleswig and Holstein with Denmark and Germany, and the interpretation of the famous despatch of September 24, 1862. He would deal with the first point at once. The right hon. Gentleman said that Schleswig was united to Holstein. This might be true in 1848–9, when the country was upset by revolution and commotion; but for hundreds of years Schleswig had been a part of Denmark, and the Eider had been the boundary, Holstein belonging to the German Confederation, and Schleswig to Denmark. He had already called the attention of the House to an important treaty ratified by the French King in 1720, by which France, in concert with England, guaranteed the Duchy of Schleswig to Denmark. With regard to the despatch of Earl Russell, dated September 24, 1862, and called the Gotha despatch, it was the keynote of all the embarrassments which now surrounded the question. His case was, that the noble Earl (Earl Russell) had lowered the just influence of England, not only by holding out menaces that were not fulfilled, but also by laying down general principles of conduct upon which foreign nations, believing in the Foreign Secretary, thought the English Government would act. Lord Russell on one occasion asserted that when a weaker people were fighting for their homes it was the business of a greater Power to assist them. That general principle was quoted everywhere on the Continent as the guiding policy of the noble Earl, and this was one of the main causes of the embarrassments that had ensued. Acting in that spirit, Lord Russell dictated to Denmark the principles on which that kingdom should be governed, and went into the smallest details in a manner which
 1237 "Sir,—I had yesterday a long conversation with M. Bille. He called in consequence of the report of a despatch which I was about to send to the great Courts. M. Bille proceeded to say that this report had caused great alarm in the Danish Government; that they had hitherto reason to believe Her Majesty's Government favourable to the rights of Denmark. The Danish Government, upon the advice of the British Government, and other allies of Denmark, had complied with the requisitions of Germany in regard to Holstein and Lauenberg. Their only stronghold at present was the constitution which bound together Denmark and Schleswig; this gone, the Danish monarchy would fall to pieces."— Correspondence, "M. Hall was visibly agitated while I was reading the despatch, and when I gave him a copy of it he said that he had never expected to receive such a document at the hands of Her Majesty's Government. Coming at such a moment, he considered it the most disastrous blow that could be inflicted on the cause of Denmark, and as leading most surely, if acted upon, to absolutism, or to the dismemberment of the Danish monarchy. …. He thought, moreover, he had some right to complain that, whereas this despatch had been communicated more than a fortnight to Berlin and Vienna, it was only now communicated to the Danish Government. He had always looked to England as the surest support of Denmark. No one had upheld more strongly than your Lordship that Germany had no rights over those parts of the monarchy not appertaining to the German Confederation, and it was certainly, therefore, not from your Lordship that he expected a project to emanate which suggested the abolition of the common constitution."— Correspondence, 1238 A laugh. The History of the Crimean War. "Any Prince who may be inclined to wrong another State casts his eyes abroad to see the condition of the great Powers. If he observes that they are all in a sound state, and headed by firm and able rulers, who are equal, if need be, to the duty of taking up arms, he knows that the contemplated outrage would produce a war, and unless he be a madman or a desperado he will be inclined to hold back. On the other hand, if he sees that any great nation which ought to be foremost to resist him is in a state of exceptional weakness, or under the governance of unworthy or incapable rulers, then, perhaps, he allows himself to entertain a hope that she may not have the spirit or wisdom to perform her duty; that is the hope—and it may be said in these days it is the only hope—which would drive a sane Prince to become the disturber of Europe. To frustrate this hope—in other words, to keep alive the dread of a just and an avenging war, should be the care of every statesman who would faithfully labour to preserve the peace of Europe. In general, when the world believes England is firm, there is peace; it is the hope of finding her weak and irresolute that tends to breed war. If a Power fails in this duty to itself and Europe, it suddenly becomes lowered in the opinion of mankind; and, happily,
 1239 ultima ratio regum. civis Romanus "To be born a Dane is to be born an honest, courteous gentleman. The Danes are sorely hurt at our desertion of their fortunes; they feel it the more severely because between them and England there has existed a silent brotherhood. English
 1240
 MR. LAYARD  replied, that he was happy to inform the House that he believed there was no foundation for the report that the Swedes had been killed in cold blood. The Foreign Office had telegraphed both to Copenhagen and Berlin on the subject, and it appeared that several Swedes, both men and officers, had been killed, but they were in the Danish service and were the Danish uniform. Several Swedes had also been taken, and Prince Frederick Charles had ordered them to be tried by court martial, but he hoped that that order would be rescinded by subsequent orders from Berlin.
 MR. LAYARD : It is quite true that I did omit four sentences, but I certainly did not wish to misrepresent the right hon. and gallant Gentleman. The fact, how ever, is that these four sentences compared the breed of men with the breed of horses, and the right hon. and gallant Gentleman said he did not see any difference between the two. ["Oh, oh!"] I did not leave out these sentences from any desire to misquote the hon. and gallant Gentleman, but I admit that they were left out. The House will now, perhaps, allow me to say a few words by way of personal explanation as to the date of the delivery of certain papers about which there was some difference of opinion yesterday. I have informed myself from the printers, the officers of the House, and the Foreign Office, and I find that I was strictly accurate. The papers containing the despatch asking
 1198
 MR. LAYARD  replied that the Order in Council was dated the 1st of March, I and had not left this country until the 10th of March. There had not yet been time to hear from Sir Frederick Bruce on the subject. There were no secret orders. Instructions were given to Sir Frederick Bruce that Major Gordon should retire from the Chinese service; but, if he could withdraw him from that service, and yet retain him under his own orders for the defence of the thirty miles radius, he was directed to do so.
 MR. DISRAELI : I have no doubt it was in answer to a question of my right hon. Friend the Member for Droitwich—but it was not the question of my right hon. Friend that sent the funds down the next day one per cent. Well, Sir, I say there has been a continuous system of men aces; and I must remind the House that none of the circumstances to which I have just referred have ever been explained or vindicated. There is another point which has come out very much in this debate and never been satisfactorily met by any speaker on behalf of the Government.
 1292 1293 "We can neither give any credit to the Ministry for their profession of a wish for peace, nor repose any confidence in their capacity for conducting negotiations to prosperous issues, odious as they are to any enemy and contemptible in the eyes of all Europe from the display of insincerity and incapacity which has marked their conduct." 1294 1295 1296 1297 verbatim 1298 1299
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, on Monday last I moved an Address to the Crown thanking Her Majesty for the papers connected with the late negotiations which had been placed on the table; and at the same time in that Address I made three statements which I trusted the House would accept. The first was that Her Majesty's Government had failed in their avowed policy, which was to uphold the integrity and independence of Denmark; the second was to represent to Her Majesty that by the course of their proceedings the just influence of this country in the councils of Europe had been lowered; and the third was that by the lowering of the just influence of the country in the councils of Europe the securities for peace were diminished. In introducing that Resolution to the consideration of the House I had—as is inevitable under such circumstances—to quote considerably, though in as small a proportion as I could, from the mass of diplomatic Correspondence which had been laid on the table. I have observed that frequently under similar circumstances—in the case of the first China debate, for instance, in which Sir James Graham took a leading part—where the opinion of the House has been asked upon multifarious papers, somewhat needless accusations have been made on both sides of the House that documents have been unfairly quoted. I was therefore careful to avoid such imputations in the present instance. I quoted no passage without at the same time giving the page, so that detection might be immediate; and I never quoted secondhand, but read from extracts copied by myself. I am not conscious of ever having intentionally garbled or misquoted any passage; and having listened with the utmost attention throughout this debate of four days, and having read the
 1288 Chargé d'Affaires 1289 1290 1291 "But I (Lord Russell) said that, since the month of May, Great Britain had warned Austria of these dangers; that Prussia and Germany had likewise been warned; but that the voice of England was unheeded, and little time was now left for counsel, wisdom, and moderation. I hoped it would not be thrown away,"—No. 4, 535.
 MR. BUXTON  said, the hon. Gentlemen opposite had some difficulty in concealing their aspirations for war—except the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate), who had boldly given them the same counsel which a far less respectable Gentleman had given in another place. Almost in the very words of Beelzebub he exclaimed
 "My sentence is for open war; of wiles More unexpert I boast not; them let those Contrive who need, or when they need—not now." 1251 1252 "Drops of compassion tremble on my eyelids, Ready to fall as soon as you have told your Pitiful story." "Story; God bless you, I have none to tell, Sir." exit 1253 1254 1255 1256 1257
 MR. NEWDEGATE  replied: It would afford me great pleasure to comply with anything which the noble Lord suggests; but I ask for an answer; the Danish people are a free people, and I wish for a decision from this House as the representatives of another free people, whether this House will consent to afford any assistance to the Danish people in defence of their independence as a nation by adopting the terms proposed by the neutral Powers in the recent Conference? [ Continued cries, urging the hon. Member to withdraw his Motion.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said—I think, Sir, that the decision of the House is now evident. I have no wish to put the House to inconvenience by a division. I therefore withdraw my Amendment.
 MR. NEWDEGATE : My Amendment was seconded by the hon. Member for Bristol (Mr. F. H F. Berkeley).
 MR. CLAY , at this exhausted stage of the debate, would not allude to many topics which had been introduced into it without any very distinct bearing on the matter at issue. He would not even discuss with his hon. friend the Member for Liskeard the state of the Liberal party, further than to say that, when that party had been purified by the defection of his hon. Friend, the poor residuum must do as well as it could without him. He would not even inquire whether a better Government might not be found, taken from hon. Gentlemen opposite, than that which sat below him. Thank Heaven, on either side of the House, England could find a Government in which she and Parliament could place confidence. This was not the question. It was—and a very simple one—has the Government so conducted these negotiations as to sully the honour of England, and forfeit the confidence of the House of Commons? He would state his reasons for the vote he was about to give, and hoped to find a better one than that which he had heard, not without pain, from too many speakers on his side of the House, namely, that they disapproved of the policy of the Government from beginning to end. Before he censured any man for doing badly, he liked to feel some confidence that he in their place, or that others in their place, would have done better. They had heard a great deal of what Government ought not to have done, but next to nothing of what they ought to have done. Hon. Gentlemen opposite had been very niggardly in gratifying the natural curiosity of their opponents, and of saying what ought to have been done in the past, what should be done in the future. Two speakers alone—both distinguished speakers, the one among the oldest in parliamentary age, the other amongst
 1261 casus belli. 1262 1263 1264
 MR. WHITESIDE : After the remarkable speech of the hon. and gallant Gentleman it may not, perhaps, be inappropriate to recall the attention of the House to the precise question before it. The words of the Resolution express regret "that the sittings of the Conference have been brought to a close without accomplishing the important purposes for which it was convened;" and "that, while the course pursued by Her Majesty's Government has failed to maintain their avowed policy of upholding the integrity and independence of Denmark, it has lowered the just influence of this country in the counsels of Europe, and thereby diminished the securities for peace." Now, the main question is, whether as matter of fact that Resolution is true, and it lies within a very narrow compass—within a period of about eleven months. The hon. and gallant Gentleman who has last spoken entered upon a minute dissection of the Treaty of 1852, and inquired into matters antecedent to that treaty. He truly stated that that treaty was the work of the noble Viscount. The noble Viscount himself had informed the House that he had conducted a correspondence with the Powers of Europe touching the settlement of Denmark, which reached 6,000 folios, and that this treaty had been the result. When Lord Malmesbury came into office he was called upon to sign it; but he declined until he ascertained that the faith of England was pledged; and the interval of eight or nine months which he spent in office before he signed was employed in the endeavour, in conjunction with Count Bismark, the Prussian Minister, who acted on behalf of the Duke of Augustenburg, to see that the claims of the Duke upon Denmark were satisfactorily adjusted. He did not sign the treaty until it was ascertained that the Duke had renounced his claims, such as they were, to the Duchies. That is the true history of Lord Malmesbury's connection with the treaty. It is true that once afterwards he was appealed to by the Germans in respect of the Duchy of Schleswig, and I believe he answered that the Diet had rights with reference to Holstein, but as for Schleswig that Duchy was to be considered as disposed of by the signataries to the treaty, and thus by their united act rendered the subject of an European adjustment to be modified by the parties who
 1221 "That the Count desired to have an explana-
 1222 "I had spoken on a former occasion in the sense that Denmark would resist such an occupation, and might be aided by Great Britain. He wished to have an explanation of what I had then said. "It is to be observed that in speaking to Count Bernstorff on the occasion alluded to, I had expressly declared that I could not say what the decision of the Government might be, as the Cabinet had not yet deliberated, and consequently not submitted any opinion to the Queen; but that judging from the general current of feeling in Parliament and in the nation, I thought an invasion of Schleswig by Germany might lead to assistance to Denmark on the part of this country. "I now said that, apart from the occurrences of the last two months, I could well understand that Great Britain might fully rely upon two Powers so honourable and so much alive to the interests of Europe as Austria and Prussia. But we had lately seen how little their authority was regarded by the smaller German Powers, and by the popular enthusiasm of the masses."—No. 4, 534. "That should the Duke of Augustenburg enter into the possession of the Duchies, the occupation would at once be turned into permanent possession, and Denmark would be dismembered; and that, seeing these dangers, and the reckless manner in which many of the German Princes and all the German popular meetings were ready to set the faith of treaties at defiance, Her Majesty's Government could not wonder that the King of Denmark was ready to defend Schleswig, and to consider its hostile occupation as a fatal blow to the integrity of his dominions."—No.4, 535. 1223 "That he could not doubt that he would be assisted by Powers friendly to Denmark in that defence."—No. 4, 535. "Her Majesty's Government are of opinion that, if the Danish Government should receive a summons from the Diet, or from Austria and Prussia, calling upon them to repeal the Constitution of November last, the King should declare that he will convoke the Rigsraad without delay, in order to submit to that Body a proposal for the revocation of such parts of the Constitution as apply to Schleswig." 1224 "The situation which England holds forbids an exclusive selfishness; her prosperity must contribute to the prosperity of other nations, and her stability to the safety of the world. But, intimately connected as we are with the system of Europe, it does not therefore follow that we are called upon to mix ourselves on every occasion with a selfish and meddling activity in the concerns of the nations which surround us. It is upon a just balance of conflicting duties and of rival but sometimes incompatible advantages, that a Government must judge when to put forth its strength, and when to husband it for occasions to come. Our ultimate object must be the peace of the world; that object may sometimes be best attained by prompt exertions; sometimes by abstinence from interposition in contests which we cannot prevent. It is upon these principles that it did not appear to the Government of this coun-
 1225 1226 1227 1228 1229 1230 History of England, 1231 1232
 MR. SPEAKER  put the Question, "That the words proposed to be left out stand part of the Question;" and the great majority of voices appearing to be in the affirmative, Mr. Speaker declared that in his judgment the "Ayes" have it. Whereupon the hon. Member for North Warwickshire called that "the Noes have it."
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that before he again put the Question on the hon. Gentleman's Amendment, he wished to call the attention of the House to a matter affecting their proceeding in verification of the voices. If the hon. Member should persist in dividing the House, inconvenience might result, and it would be necessary to have some change made in their arrangements. It appeared that the "Noes" would form a very small portion of the Members present, and that, therefore, the lobby would not contain all the "Ayes." The difficulty had been foreseen, and considered by himself and the officers of the
 1300
 MR. SPEAKER  then again put the Question, and not more than two or three voices declaring in the negative, Mr. Speaker said that in his judgment the "Ayes" have it.
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, he would beg to ask the right hon. Member for the University of Cambridge, Whether an order has been issued (to take effect from the 1st of September next) prohibiting the attendants at the British Museum from leaving the Museum during the ordinary dinner hour, or at any time between the hours of nine o'clock in the morning and six o'clock in the evening; and, if so, why has such order been issued; and whether any and what provision has been made to enable the attendants to procure their dinner on the premises at a moderate charge?
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : I was under a mistake then, and I apologize to the hon. Member, for he evidently does not like the connection with the hon. Member for Peterborough. Be that as it may, the hon. Member for Bristol made no speech in support of the Amendment, and the hon. Member for Peterborough did make a speech in its defence, and was evidently under the idea that its object was not to preserve Denmark, but to protect this country from some aggression on the part of Cardinal Wiseman. Whoever the seconder, the Amendment will soon expire in its cradle, and will, probably, be followed to the grave by the two hon. Gentlemen, and perhaps by the third. Let it rest in peace. 1200 1201 1202 "The hon. Gentleman pledges his political sagacity that the Conference will lead to no good result; I can only say, I trust this day next year he will not be able to remind us of what he is now predicting." esprit d' escalier 1203 The Owl, Critic, 1204 1205 "In order to prevent a future contest, and to satisfy Germany, it would be necessary, in our opinion"—[that is, in the opinion of the neutral Powers]—"entirely to separate Holstein, Lauenburg, and the southern part of Schleswig from the Danish Monarchy."—p. 39. "In order to justify so vast a sacrifice on the part of Denmark, and to maintain the independence of the Danish Monarchy, it is desirable in our opinion that the line of the frontier should not be drawn more to the north than the mouth of the Schlei and the Dannewerke."—p. 39. "If the King of Denmark consents to the sacrifices of territory which are required of him in the name of peace, it would be just that the independence of his kingdom should be guaranteed by the great European Powers."—p. 40. verbatim 1206 "A little still she strove and much repented, And swearing 'I will ne'er consent'—consented." 1207 "In these times it is necessary that a treaty should not only have the signatures of envoys and the ratifications of Sovereigns, but that in its working it should be made to accord with the sentiments and wishes of the people to be governed under it." 1208 "The future condition of the Duchy of Schleswig shall be settled upon one or the other of the two following plans, according to the choice of the King-Duke." "First, the Duchy of Schleswig might be divided into two parts with reference to the German or Danish nationality of its inhabitants, the southern and German part being to be called the Southern Duchy, the northern or Danish part being to be called the Northern Duchy. The King would then become a member of the Germanic Confederation in his capacity of Duke of Southern Schleswig, as well as in his capacity of Duke of Holstein, and Southern Schleswig would, like Holstein, form part of the territory of the German Confederation, and the sovereignty of southern Schleswig would follow the same line of succession as the sovereignty of Holstein. On the other hand, Northern Schleswig would be attached by its laws of succession to the Crown of Denmark, and the sovereignty of that Duchy would be inseparably united with the Danish Crown. Secondly, if this arrangement should not be thought expedient, the Duchy of Schleswig might remain entire and undivided, such as it now is; it might continue to be administered as it has been by an Administration established for Schleswig and Holstein jointly; and there should also be provincial States in which the representatives of the two Duchies would be assembled together in their proper respective proportions. In this case the King of Denmark would remain as he now is, a member of the Germanic Confederation in his I capacity of Duke of Holstein, but he would not become member of the Confederation in his capacity of Duke of Schleswig. No change would in this case be made in the law of succession in Schleswig." 1209 "A good deal has passed in regard to these points; but Her Majesty's Government had studiously and systematically held themselves aloof from taking any share in these negotiations. Her Majesty's Government had confined themselves strictly to the mediation which they undertook, which was a mediation for the purpose of restoring peace between Denmark and the Germanic Confederation."—[3  Hansard, 1210 "I deeply regret to be obliged to declare to you, without a moment's delay, that I am not at liberty to join in the Protocol. On the contrary, my instructions prescribe to me positively not to join in any Protocol of this sort, previously agreed upon by the three non-Germanic Powers of Europe, in consequence of negotiations carried on, and commented upon even publicly between those Powers without either Prussia or Austria or any German Government and authority having been consulted or even as much as asked their opinion. Can it be overlooked that this Protocol has been kept studiously, and in spite of reiterated requests as far as Prussia is concerned, a secret to the German Powers? … Germany is excluded from the negotiations which have led to the agreement both here and at Paris, and France is introduced in her place; France who has no legitimate right or claim, or pretext even, to interfere in a question relating to the Baltic and the internal affairs of Germany. Is the world to see, for the first time, a triple coalition against Germany, headed by England? A system of interfering in the affairs of Germany by her great eastern and western neighbour, under the sanction, yea, with the initiative of Great Britain? Are the two German Powers to be slighted by England, whose traditional Allies they have been, and with whom she has fought for the independence of Europe? … Let me then indulge the hope that you will not press any longer a Protocol, nor seem to impose, at the head of an European coalition, upon Germany an arrangement which must by her always be considered as  res acta inter alios, Correspondence, 1211 1212 "Upon my head they plac'd a fruitless crown, And put a barren sceptre in my gripe, Thence to be wrenched by an unlineal hand— No son of mine succeeding." 1213 "The Ambassador of Russia announces that the Emperor, wishing to facilitate, as far as depends on him, the arrangements to be concluded between Denmark and Germany, in view of the re-establishment of peace, has ceded to the Grand Duke of Oldenburg the eventual right which Section 3 of the Protocol of Warsaw of June 5, 1851, reserved to His Majesty as head of the elder branch of Holstein Gottorp." 1214 The Times "The French Government have repeated to us only within the last twenty-four hours, that the Emperor does not consider it essential to the interests of France to support the line of the Schlei; he declares he does not think France would go to war for such an object. I think if that war were successful, France would expect some compensation on account of her participation, which could not be granted without causing general jealousy and disturbing the balance of power." 1215 1216 1217 "Indeed it seems as if there lay upon the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) an absolute necessity for quarrelling; if he can he will quarrel with an absolute monarchy: if he cannot find an absolute monarchy for that purpose, he will quarrel with one which is limited; if he cannot find that, sooner than not quarrel at all he will quarrel with a republic." "What ought a Foreign Secretary to be? Is he to be like some gallant knight, challenging all comers, having no other duty than to lay as many as possible of his adversaries sprawling in the dust? If such is the idea of a good Foreign Secretary, I for one would vote the noble Lord this appointment for life." sedet, œternumque sedebit infelix! nom de guerre 1218 "Panting Time toils after him in vain," facile princeps, Record 1219 1220
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Sir, the House will recollect that, at the commencement of the Session, when a question was put to the noble Lord the First Minister, as to when the voluminous papers on Denmark
 1199 confrère
 MR. WALPOLE  said, in reply, that the order to which the hon. Gentleman referred had been issued. In 1838 the rule was that the attendants should continue in the Museum from ten to seven in summer, and ten to four in winter, and during that time they had only half an hour to go out for luncheon or dinner. The Trustees consented to alter that arrangement by giving them an hour for their dinner. The regulations had since been altered. The
 1195
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, in the graver parts of the very lively speech which we heard at the commencement of the evening, two remarks were made by the hon. Member for Liskeard (Mr. Osborne) which require more than a passing observation. One of those remarks had reference to the causes of the troubles which now unfortunately exist in the North of Europe; the other had reference to the Treaty of 1852. As to the causes of those disturbances which exist in the North of Europe, the hon. Member found fault with the hon. Member for Rochdale (Mr. Cobden) and the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck), whose powerful and characteristic speeches appear to me, both upon that and upon other parts of the question, to have exhausted almost everything which can be said upon it. If I have read the papers which have been placed in the hands of hon. Members to any purpose, it is to my mind demonstratively clear that to allege that the populations of Schleswig and Holstein were the cause of the troubles in the North of Europe is to allege that which is totally unfounded in fact. On the contrary, those troubles were an import from a foreign land. They were fomented, they were encouraged, they were excited, and enforced by a revolutionary spirit working in Germany, which, acting on the idea of a fatherland, and adopting the dangerous doctrine of nationalities, determined the German people to appropriate to themselves territories and possessions which never belonged to them. When I look to the conduct of the two Great Powers who ought to have exercised some influence over the minor States of Germany, I own that I feel astonished at the manner in which they have allowed themselves to be home away by that violent current until they themselves became the principal movers in a transaction which history will brand with a mark as black as the partition of Poland. Those Powers seem to me to have been gathering up the shreds of that wild movement which burst over Europe in 1848; and, having done so, they seem to have given to it a force and a consistency which would not be satisfied with anything less than the disrup-
 1265 1266 1267 coup d'état 1268 1269 1270 1271 1272
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I beg to ask the indulgence of the House for a moment, while I make a personal explanation. Yesterday the hon. Member for Leominster (Mr. Gathorne Hardy) adverted to a word used by me which at the moment could not be exactly specified, but which, he proceeded to say, went beyond the due licence of debate. I was not precisely aware at the time what the word actually used by me was; but I have since endeavoured to refresh my memory by reference to the usual
 1197
 MR. MONSELL  said, that before alluding to the speech of the right hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, he desired to refer to the speech of the hon. Member for Kildare. In many of the statements of that speech he entirely concurred. He believed that the interests which both he and that hon. Gentleman represented had not been wisely cared for in many instances by the noble Lord; but the best and fairest course to pursue on that occasion was to deal with the question before the House on its own merits. This was the course the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn (Lord Stanley) had adopted, and he had frankly stated that he did so deliberately because, if extraneous faults were to weigh against the Government, extraneous merits would also have in justice to weigh in their favour. With reference then to that subject the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Whiteside) appeared to him to have forgotten what had been the conduct of the Opposition, and how that conduct had influenced the negotiations while they were proceeding. To both sides of the House he thought some blame justly attached for the manner in which they had allowed themselves to be swayed backwards and forwards by public opinion on a delicate and difficult matter about which it was impossible that public opinion could be well informed. Let them remember the speeches which had been delivered in that House during the last few weeks on the subject of Denmark. Take those delivered by the noble Lord the Member for Stamford (Lord Robert Cecil) for example. The only time that he had ever seen the hon. Member for Liskeard (Mr. Osborne) cowed or silenced was, when that noble Lord held up to public indignation those whose sympathies were German, and sought to show the world that in that House almost all were in favour of Denmark, and that there was nothing like a German party there. Had that language no in-
 1233 "It is our duty as it is our policy to protect her against aggression. And although God forbid that the last extremity should be forced upon us! yet, I say, that if a question arose as to whether the Danish monarchy should be dissolved,
 1234 Hansard, 1235 "I know too well the little value that can be placed on that support which arises from misconception of one's real opinions … I have so little desire to procure a hollow confidence, either on false pretences or by delusive silence, that I rejoice in the opportunity of frankly declaring my opinions."—[3  Hansard, 1236
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken had fallen into the same error that had been committed by many hon. Members on his side of the House, who had spoken in this debate—he had misstated the nature of the case against the Government, and had misunderstood the arguments by which it was supported. The hon. Gentleman, like others, had argued the question as if the whole matter depended on the production of meagre extracts from despatches. They turned and twisted these extracts as they pleased, and when they had compared one sentence with another, and said that the Opposition had attached too much importance to this or that passage, they thought they had upset the case against the Government. But that was not the way in which this question was to be dealt with. The charge against the Government did not rest upon a few meagre extracts which might be twisted and turned, this way and that, but upon the evidence on which the Resolution was founded affirming that England had been humiliated and her just influence lowered in the recent negotiations. The charge against the Government rested on the want of sagacity and statesmanship shown by them in the whole course of the negotiations, and the supporters of the Resolution maintained, not that England had been humiliated, but that through the conduct of the Administration she had lost a portion of her just influence among the nations of Europe. When the Treaty of 1852 was concluded the best arrangement which the circumstances of the time admitted of was made, but it was an arrangement containing in itself great difficulties, because it involved the maintenance of relations of a complicated description between Germany and Denmark In the course of the ten years which followed, it appeared that neither Denmark nor Germany were prepared to carry out the arrangement of 1852, and by 1862 it ought to have become obvious to any statesman of sagacity that it had become extremely difficult or impossible to maintain that arrangement. What, then, was the position which England ought to have oc-
 1258 1259 1260
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, if any doubt could have existed when the notice of this Motion was first given as to its object and importance, that doubt must have been fully dispelled by the debate that has ensued upon it; for we are now told, fairly and plainly, that although the words simply imply censure on one act of the Government, it is intended as a vote of "No confidence;" and that the issue which the House is called upon to determine is, whether Gentlemen on this side of the House or Gentlemen on that side shall be charged with the conduct of the affairs of the country. Now, Sir, I object to much that has passed in this debate—but to two things mainly—first of all, to the attempt to separate my noble Friend at the head of the Foreign Office from the rest of his Colleagues—a most unconstitutional attempt—a most unfair attempt; an attempt which ought to have been reprobated by those who, having been in office, know the joint responsibility of the Members of a Cabinet. Sir, I declare on my own part and on the part of my Colleagues, that we are all equally responsible for what the noble Lord at the head of the Foreign Office has done; and therefore I trust that we shall not have any more of these personal attacks upon Earl Russell, but that whatever censure any man may wish to cast upon the conduct of the Government may be aimed at the Government itself, and not at any individual member of it. I also, Sir, regret deeply for my country the pains that have been taken, by many of those who have taken part in this debate, to villify and degrade this country. Not content with blaming the Government, which they were entitled to do, and endeavouring to prove that we were wrong—which they had a right to do if they could prove it—in every step of these transactions, they have maintained that England is degraded, and that she has sunk in the estimation of foreign nations. And when forsooth? and since when? Why, since the termination of the Conferences, which closed a few days ago. Sir, I deny, on the part of the Government, the statements that have been made. I say that England stands as high as she ever did. And those who say she has fallen in the estimation of the world are not the men to whom the honour and dignity of England should be confided. 1273 1274 "I have said that we concur entirely with him, and I am satisfied with all reasonable men in Europe, including those in France and Austria, in desiring that the independence and integrity, the rights of Denmark, may be maintained. We are convinced—I am convinced, at least—that if any violent attempt were made to overthrow those rights, and interfere with that independence, those who made the attempt would find in the result that it would not be Denmark alone with whom they would have tocontend."—[3  Hansard, "It is impossible for any man who looks at the map of Europe—I did not say the map of Aldershot and Portsmouth—and who knows the great interests which the Powers of Europe feel in the independence of the Danish Monarchy, to shut his eyes to the fact that the war, begun about a petty dispute concerning the institutions of Holstein, would in all probability not end where it began, and might draw after it consequences that the parties who commenced it would be exceedingly sorry to have caused." [3  Hansard, 1275 "If the Government would say that under pretence of Federal rights the Germanic Confederation were not to interfere with the rights of the Danish Crown, and if France and Russia held similar language, the danger to which he had adverted might be obviated."—[3  Hansard, 1276 1277 1278 1279 1280 1281 1282 1283 1284 1285 1286 1287
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I hope the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate) will not put the House to the trouble of dividing on his Amendment. He must have ascertained that the feeling of the House is not in its favour, and it would be very inconvenient to go to a division upon it at this hour. [ Loud cries for the withdrawal of the Amendment.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that the pay of the officers of the army had not been altered for the last seventy or eighty years, and the stoppage in question had always been exacted from cavalry officers, in consequence, he supposed, of the increased pay given them. The suggestion of the hon. and learned Gentleman was nothing less than a simple suggestion to increase the pay of cavalry officers by the sum of 16 d 1331
 COLONEL NORTH  said, that he had brought forward that matter almost every year for the last ten years. It might be all very well to insist on the stoppage of forage money if these officers were not bound to keep horses, but in the exercise of their duties they were obliged to keep two. The noble Lord said the pay of the officers of the army had not been altered for seventy or eighty years, but the same argument would have equally applied to the allowance of command money, which he had succeeded in getting altered last year. The stoppage was a very great piece of injustice to cavalry officers, and he did not blame one Administration more than another, as every successive Treasury had refused to meet the case. He regretted that the Treasury always refused every fair demand for the army or navy.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he had known Sir Francis Head all his life. He was a member of the Corps (the Royal Engineers) to which he belonged, and he could hear testimony that there never was a more energetic man, or one who commanded more universal respect. He (Sir Frederic Smith) happened to know the circumstances under which Sir Francis Head went out to Canada. He was then an Inspector of Poor Law. He did not apply for the appointment. It was offered to him by Lord Glenelg. The messenger came to Sir Francis Head late in the day—he was then living at Croydon; and with
 1338
 COLONEL DUNNE  had no doubt that Sir Henry Brownrigg had given correct advice; but the committing magistrate and his hon. and gallant Friend (Captain Archdall) complained, not because the case was an unusual, but because it was a usual one.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, that if all the other agricultural schools of Ireland were conducted like the one in his own county there could not be a greater waste of public money than was involved in this expenditure. He never saw a worse farm than the one belonging to the school to which he referred, and certainly if his own steward were to manage any of his property in the same fashion he should dismiss hi in the next morning. The reason why it was in such a state was because it was conducted from Dublin, without the advice of people on the spot being taken. With regard to the sum of £2,000 paid in salaries to flax instructors, the whole of it was thrown away. The cultivation of flax was a new movement, and instead of spending the money upon a parcel of officials from Dublin it would be far better to let each district have its own share of the fund, and to employ its own people.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, that it would be better to allow the grant to be distributed by the local agricultural societies, and urged that what were required were not instructors all the year round at salaries of £100 a year, but men at 25s. a week for a few weeks in the year.
 LORD NAAS  suggested that the Bill should be referred to a Select Committee.
 LORD NAAS  observed, that the mystery involved in the matter had not been made clearer by the papers relating to it for which he had moved, and which had been laid on the table. Having read the depositions taken in the case, he must confess that it did not appear to him that the Government had any ground for the course
 1355
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he protested against the secresy with which the investigation of the charge was conducted. A grand jury could not make a presentment in case of a fire if there was no malice, and as the Government asked a grand jury to make a presentment, it was obvious that they thought it was a case of malicious burning. But they had failed in every quarter to prove a case of malice. Therefore their conduct was very culpable.
 MR. WHITE  said, he agreed in the expediency of opening the British Museum in the evening, if it were practicable with, due regard to the safety of the collections, and he would entreat the Government to take some steps to utilize the valuable works which they had acquired. He believed that the gentlemen who presided over the different departments at the British Museum were in favour of popular lectures being given, illustrative of the treasures under their charge; and such a practice would certainly tend to stimulate popular education. He should like to know whether the whole collection of the Farnese Palace had been purchased from the ex-King of Naples, and, if so, what was the amount to be paid for it?
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, he must decline to withdraw the Bill, as he considered himself under an honourable engagement to the House to proceed with it. In Committee he should be happy to consider any Amendments, but he could not pledge himself to adopt the change sketched by the hon. Member for Bradford. He thought it was unadvisable to make any difference between one class of workmen and another.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, he was only anxious that the country should get full value for the money. What he complained of was, that when farming was carried on in Ireland at the public expense the same care and watchfulness were not exercised as were generally applied to farming for the interest of a particular individual. He did not consider the agricultural schools in Ireland were attended with any useful practical results, and that the farmers in the neighbourhood showed no desire to obtain the services of the pupils who had been trained in them. He doubted very much the propriety of the manner in which the cultivation of flax was encouraged.
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he wished to call attention to the manner in which the University was treated by the Government. The University had no fitting "local habitation" for the discharge of its duties—a name it had provided for itself. At present it was located in Burlington House, and he wished to ask the noble Lord to state what the intention of the Government was with reference to providing the University of London with a fitting building?
 MR. O'REILLY  said, the Society was
 1353
 MR. O'REILLY  said, that he had declared his sentiments on the subject at much length last year, and he would not go over the ground that he had then traversed. He would remark, however, that the charge that, in attacking the model schools last year, he had aimed at the destruction of the whole system of education in Ireland was unfair and unfounded. A decisive check, however, had been given to the encroachments of the universal system of State education, and to that extent the discussion of last year had been productive of advantage. He had moved for a Return on the subject, which he was perfectly aware would be of a comprehensive character. Soon after he moved for it he received a letter from the Financial Secretary to the Treasury to ask whether it could not be curtailed, as the labour and expense would be considerable; but he (Mr. O'Reilly) thought that, considering the interest and importance, he was warranted in requesting that it might be furnished notwithstanding the expense.
 1350
 MR. AYRTON  said, the London University had none of the usual incidents of a university, with the exception of that of granting degrees. It had been based upon a limited and narrow basis, and he hoped the Government would place it on a broader basis for the future. If the University was to be worthy of its name, it ought to be associated with the other scientific associations in the metropolis, and within a building that might bring them into connection with the University. An attempt was made to do so some years ago at South Kensington, but that was protested against as likely to impair their utility, and it had been abandoned, but he hoped the Government would turn their attention to a central building for them. No doubt Burlington House could be made available for the requirements of the University and the scientific institutions, so as to make them more useful than at present.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that if anything could reconcile the Committee to the anomalous practice of moving these Estimates by an hon. Member unconnected with the Government, it would be the extremely courteous and agreeable manner in which that task was performed by the right hon. Gentleman. At the same time he must again protest against the sum of £90,000 being submitted to the House under circumstances entirely different to those under which other Votes are proposed. In that as in other cases the Vote should be proposed by a responsible Minister. With respect to the institution itself, he thought that the more interesting the collection became the greater reason there was that the fullest opportunity should be granted to the public to visit it, and, therefore, he regretted that the trustees had not been able to provide for opening the Museum in I the evenings. Experience at South Kensington had shown that evening exhibitions were practicable, and if the British Museum were open from seven to ten at night, it would attract fully double the number of visitors. Having been a Member of the Committee on the British Museum which sat last year, he was inclined to agree with the right hon. Gentleman that steps should be taken to provide for the enlargement of that institution. The investigation into the property at South Kensington had
 1359
 MR. AYRTON  protested against the doctrine which had been enunciated, that there was anything in the terms upon which the land at South Kensington had been purchased which should preclude the Government from disposing of it. Such a doctrine was illusory, because it was perfectly competent for the House to put an end to the supposed trust at any moment it pleased.
 MR. LEFROY  said, he would not oppose the grant as he agreed that the money given to Ireland, although it had not been laid out in the way he could wish, had done a certain degree of good. When the number of children in daily attend-
 1348
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  asked, why the salary of the Registrar had been increased?
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he understood that some proposal had already been made to the trustees by the Government, and he thought the House was entitled to know what it was.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he did not intend to express any opinion on the general question, except to say that it would be found that the question of pensions to Colonial Governors was not so simple as was supposed. It was mixed up with the question of the self-government of the colonies. Formerly they were considered appanages of the Crown—mere dependencies of the Crown, to be managed for the advantage of the mother country. Now, however, we had acknowledged the rights of the colonists to self-government, and as a consequence the colonists were beginning slowly to pay the expenses of their own Government. It was nothing to say that Governors were appointed by the Crown, and, therefore, should be paid by England, for the Crown was the Crown of the colonies as well as of Great Britain. Nor was it anything to say that the services rendered by the Governors were public services, because they were public services to the colonies, and not, therefore, to be charged to another part of the empire. But the question now before the House was a wholly distinct question from the general question
 1339
 MR. NEWDEGATE  expressed his opinion, that to the constitutional loyalty infused into the colonists by Sir Francis Head the ready acquiescence of the people in the measures considered necessary for the suppression of the rebellion was in no small degree to be attributed.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, the noble Lord had on a previous occasion mentioned in general terms certain contingencies which might occur, and which might justify this country in taking part with Denmark in the present war. He understood by that that the Government were prepared to prevent any attack upon the independence of Copenhagen and the personal safety of the King of Denmark, but it was doubted by many persons out of doors whether such was the intention of the noble Lord. To refrain from interfering until after Copenhagen had been bombarded would be very much like shutting the stable door when the steed had been stolen. It had been said that the Austrian fleet had received notice that if they appeared in the Baltic the English fleet would accompany them, and he wished to know if that intention would still be carried out now that the Conference had broken up. It was of immense importance to the country to know what was likely to be the course which the Government would pursue. A great debate had just taken place on the policy of the Government, in which that policy had received the approval of the majority of the House; but there were many matters still left unexplained, of which this was one of considerable interest. He would remind the House that at the commencement of the Crimean war we sent our fleet to the Dardanelles and into the Black Sea as soon as we heard of the outrage committed by the Russian fleet at Sinope. He would, therefore, ask the noble Lord to favour the House with an explanation of the real meaning of the expressions he had used a fortnight before.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he wished to put a Question to the noble Lord the First Lord of the Treasury, of which he had given private notice. Upon that day fortnight, when the noble Lord favoured the House with a statement in reference to the policy of the Government, he made use of a remarkable expression with regard to certain contingencies which might arise in the Dano-German war, which would justify the interference of Her Majesty's Government.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he was quite sure that no one could feel the want of an advocate who could command the assistance of his right hon. Friend (Sir William Jolliffe.) He (Mr. Cardwell) had the pleasure of enjoying not only the literary but the personal acquaintance of Sir Francis Head, and, without entering into the controversial matters involved in the case, was quite ready to confirm all that had been said as to the abilities, courage, and zeal for the public service that had been displayed by him. As it had been justly said, this was a case which occurred not far from thirty years ago, and was then the subject of much controversy. Into that controversy it might, perhaps, be his duty to enter at some future time, and to state the views of the Colonial Department. He reserved that question now, as it was not necessary to enter upon it at the present moment; and he was glad to avoid the necessity of doing so. The observations which had fallen from his right hon. Friend he understood had arisen in this way, A proposal had been made to Parliament for conferring pensions upon Colonial Governors, and several memorials which had been received on the subject from Colonial Governors had
 1336 1337
 MR. LEATHAM  said, he should support the Amendment, as great objections were entertained against the Bill in the borough which he had the honour to represent.
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, he wished to know if it was the intention of the Government to propose at some future period the separation of the collections at the British Museum?
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, he hoped the House would wait for a little more evidence before they proceeded further with this measure.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, that no expense had been spared in securing the best engineering skill for the construction of the Sheffield reservoir; and he believed the bursting of the Holmfirth Reservoir had been occasioned by an accident which it was impossible to foresee. If there had been the slightest intimation given to the directors that there was any danger, this loss of life would never have happened.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, that as the Committee were asked to vote a sum of £315,000 for education in Ireland, and as a portion of that amount was diverted from the system of united education and applied to the convent schools, the nature of the teaching in those establishments, moral and political, should be laid before them. If it were not he would take an early opportunity next Session of bringing the whole subject before the House.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he wished to call attention to the anomalous and unfair practice of making deductions from the pay of certain Cavalry Officers for the Forage supplied to their horses. Those officers must have horses in order to perform their duty,
 1330
 MR. BRADY  said, he was also in favour of diffusing as widely as possible in Ireland, through the medium of the schools, a knowledge of the most improved methods of agriculture. He considered, however, that the expenses attending the Glasnevin Agricultural College were unnecessarily high. If the hon. Member for Peterborough was aware of the manner in which the convent schools were conducted, he certainly would hesitate before he found fault with them. The only complaint which he (Mr. Brady) had to make was of the restrictions imposed with respect to those schools by the Government under which the children were not permitted to make the sign of the cross, though the cross appeared over religious edifices in this country.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Gentleman was out of order in referring to a
 1329
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that the Vote with respect to Irish education differed in several particulars from that for education in Great Britain. In England and Scotland the money voted was distributed among the different denominations, and no school received a grant in which religious was not united with secular instruction. In Ireland exactly the reverse was the case. Again, while the population in England was increasing, the Estimates for education had been diminishing, but strange to say in Ireland it was just the opposite. [Sir ROBERT PEEL: The number of children is increasing.] Well, it was something of a mystery that while the people were diminishing, the children should be on the increase. The right
 1346 1347
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he wished to know if the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland could throw any light on the fire at Queen's College, Cork?
 MR. HENNESSY  said, it was no doubt a painful subject for the Government, but the facts were too remarkable to be altogether passed by. The fire occurred on the 13th of May, 1862, and the depositions before the House fully bore out Dr. Bullen's statement, that the College was set fire to by some one within its walls. He did not understand that Dr. Bullen had withdrawn that statement, though he had others with reference to the College. After the fire took place it was stated in the Government organs that the authors of it were that mysterious body, the Ultramontane party. But there did not appear to be the shadow of a foundation for such a statement. In all probability the College was
 1354
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, he had received several communications with regard to the assistants at the Museum, as to which the right hon. Gentleman had given him an answer on a former occasion. The complaint came from the attendants, who were the lowest grade of persons employed at the Museum. They came at nine in the morning, and remained till six or a quarter past six in the evening. Now these persons were not allowed to leave the museum in the day on any pretence whatever and they thought it very hard that they were compelled to take every particle of refreshment they required in the day in the new refreshment room. He had a letter in his hand from a person whom he obviously could not name, for the truth of which he could not vouch, but which stated that an address of thanks to the trustees had been recently drawn up in the printed books department, which had been signed by the assistants in many instances very reluctantly. The attendants, however, refused to sign it altogether, which caused great anger in a certain quarter, and an apology had been demanded to be signed. He thought it would be very easy to inquire whether the refreshment room was or was not fully attended, and whether or not a document requiring an apology had been tendered to the various employés. He trusted that the right hon. Gentleman would find an opportunity of making these inquiries.
 MR. LOCKE  said, it was extraordinary that his hon. Friend should have made the very same speech as he made last year. One would have supposed that his hon. Friend was always in the Tower Hamlets, and never rode in Hyde Park or walked in Kensington Gardens. The fact was that there was no place in London which was more frequented, especially on Sundays, than Kensington Gardens and Hyde Park, and that by all conditions of people; and if both the Kensington Museum and the British Museum were opened on Sundays they also would be filled. His hon. Friend said there was no reason why they should be compelled to keep an exhibition at Kensington; but he forgot that by the contract between the Commissioners of the Exhibition and the Government it was stipulated that the Government was to give a certain sum of money for the site, and that it should be appropriated to the purposes
 1360
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, that if the hon. Member would come to Cork he would be happy to show him the system of education adopted by the convent schools. The hon. Member would then, he was sure, demand next year an extension of the grant. He held that in an agricultural country it was the duty of the National Board to disseminate agricultural information in the most simple and popular way among the children in the schools.
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL  said, he rose to call attention to the proceedings of Government in the case of James Hoey, convicted of offences against the Revenue Laws. Hoey was convicted of the offence in February, and convicted in the penalty of £50, or twelvemonths' imprisonment in default of payment. On the 14th of June he memorialized the Government for a mitigation of the sentence. On the 17th of the same month the matter was referred by General Larcom, the permanent Under Secretary for Ireland, to Sir Henry Brownrigg, the Inspector General of Constabulary, who reported, and added to his report a recommendation that the sentence ought to be mitigated to a much smaller penalty or a term of imprisonment. What the committing magistrate complained of was, that the authority of the police should override that of the Judge, for the Government had acted on the recommendation of the Inspector General, without any reference to the committing magistrate, This was one case illustrative of a general system.
 MR. HASSARD  asked for explanations with regard to the duties of the classical master in the normal establishment for special class teachers, pupil-teachers, and others. He wanted to know, whether the duty was confined to instruction in the dead languages, or whether modern languages were included?
 MR. WALPOLE : The Vote which I have to propose this year amounts to £92,127, against a Vote for last year of £90,641. This shows an increase of £1,486. At first sight a false conclusion I may be drawn from this increase, but if you go over the Vote you will find there is an increase on the whole for salaries, expenses of bookbinding, catalogues, &c. of £4,724, but at the same time there has been a reduction amounting to £2,328 on building expenses, furniture, and so on, such items leaving a net increase of £1,486. This increase may be accounted for chiefly by two special purchases which have been made—both of them great acquisitions to the Museum and, as I hope, the community at large. The first of these is the purchase of the collection recently found in a cave in the south of France, and brought here under the superintendence of Professor Owen. I look upon that as one of the most valuable acquisitions we could have gained for the benefit of the country at large. There is no question which excites greater interest in a scientific, archœological, and I may say, antiquarian point of view, than that raised by Professor Lyell in his book on the antiquity of man; and this collection, I am sure, will amply repay an inspection from any hon. Member who takes an interest in this subject. For that collection we have given the large sum of £1,000, and I am sure the money could not have been better spent. The other purchase is a bronze lamp, found on the site of the Sulian Palace. It is supposed, by those who are versed in such matters, to be of Greek workmanship, of a date prior to the
 1357 Journal of Science and Art. 1358
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that the regulations introduced at the British Museum were the same as those in other public offices, and the inconvenience which the public sustained in consequence of the absence of the officials furnished the reason for resorting to them. He had already stated that he should support the determination of the trustees, to whose decision he thought all questions should be submitted. The price of the Farnesian Collection, £4,000, was certainly large, but he did not regard it as unreasonable. The only question was as to how that sum was to be provided, and he might state that the money would not be included in the Estimates, as it was intended, with the sanction of the Government, to defray the charge from the surplus remaining from the grants of former years. He did not believe that the proposal for keeping the Museum open from six to eight, or until ten, would be found to answer. The danger did not simply arise from fire, though that was an important consideration; but if the Museum were kept open it would have to be lighted by gas, and such a course would inevitably entail great damage upon the sculpture, books, and other things contained in the Museum?
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the Government had been considering what they should do with the site at South Kensington, and they had communicated with the trustees to know what quantity of land they would require, and what extent of building would be sufficient to accommodate the natural history collection.
 MR. COLLINS  expressed a hope that the Government would not withdraw the Bill on the second reading, but that they would be prepared to consider any Amend-
 1364
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that due notice would be given to the House of any proposal that it might be thought desirable to make.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was doubtful whether the
 1361
 MR. ANGERSTEIN  also supported the claim, and concurred in the appeal just made by the light hon. Gentleman the Member for North Staffordshire. He thought that the Government could not mix up this case with that of ordinary Colonial Governors, but should look to the merits and services of those who had served a great colony at a most peculiar conjuncture of affairs.
 MR. FERRAND  disclaimed any intention of saying a word against the character of Mr. Rawlinson. All he meant was that twenty years ago Mr. Rawlinson himself pointed out a substance which he said rendered a certain work dangerous, and yet he did not allude to it in his recent Report.
 MR. FERRAND  said, two years ago he had directed the attention of the Home Secretary to the state of the Bradford Reservoirs; and on the bursting of the Sheffield Reservoir he again noticed the matter, and his statements were described as being greatly exaggerated by the Mayor of Bradford, who had been communicated with by the Home Secretary, and who stated that the Bradford Reservoir had been emptied. After that statement he received communications from persons residing in the neighbourhood of the reservoir, complaining of the great danger to which they were exposed. At his instance the Home. Secretary, after some hesitation, directed Mr. Rawlinson, the Government Inspector, to visit the works in his neighbourhood, and that gentleman's Report had been laid before the House. There was this alarming fact in connection with these hill reservoirs—that the people resident in their neighbourhood had no protection whatever for their lives or property. In the case of a recent Bill in regard to a reservoir in Lancashire, an application was made on the part of Colonel Towneley, for a clause enacting that the Water Company should not impound water, without having a certificate from a competent engineer that the works were secure. The Parliamentary Committee, however, who considered the Bill, refused the application, with the remark that the parties had a remedy by an action at law. Yet in that very case the embankment of the reservoir had twice before that time given way. Of what value was a right of action against a bankrupt company, and it appeared that the shareholders in the company would only be liable to the amount of their shares. The Sheffield Company, for instance, were ruined by the inundation; and if it had not been for the subscriptions collected throughout the country, the sufferers would have received no relief. There was no personal responsibility attaching to the
 1319 1320 1321 1322
 MR. FERRAND  resumed: He thought Mr. Rawlinson had great cause of complaint against the corporation of Bradford in keeping back from him information prejudicial to their works which it was most important for him to possess. His Report, however, was very unsatisfactory. That Report stated that the Bradford corporation had eleven of these reservoirs under their control, of which three required special notice, leaving eight on which no particular remarks were made. Now, he was prepared to assert, on the authority of those who perfectly understood the question, that five of these eight were not only unsafe, but many of them dangerous to a very serious degree. If the right hon. Gentleman were to visit the neighbourhood of the Silsden Reservoir, and call at the houses of these people, he would have a great deal of sympathy with them. He would entreat the right hon. Gentleman to pay some attention to the question, and to put a stop to the great alarm which prevailed in the North of England on the subject. In almost the concluding sentence of his Report Mr. Rawlinson said, "This Report must not be considered to involve the Government or myself in any responsibility;" but who was to be responsible? The people themselves had no power, and the magistrates were very reluctant to interfere. The public had a right to expect that some stringent power would be brought to bear to protect them. It had been suggested that none of these reservoirs should be allowed to be brought into operation after their construction until they had been reported to the Home Office as being safe by some competent engineer. Having made these observations, he left the matter in the hands of the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Home Office, and he trusted that the Report of Mr. Leather would be laid on the table.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he believed that Mr. Rawlinson's inspection had given satisfaction at Bradford, and his Report had tended to remove the alarm which previously existed on the subject. Two reservoirs were found to be unsound, and an undertaking had been required that they should not be filled till they were rendered quite safe. There could be no doubt that there was a strong feeling in the country in regard to the matter; and it was not surprising when they recollected the catastrophes at Holmfirth and Sheffield. He quite agreed, however, with his right hon. Friend, that Government could not assume the responsibility of inspecting all the reservoirs with a view to determine their soundness. The result of such a system would be to shift the responsibility to a great extent from the shoulders of those who constructed or owned the works to the Government. It appeared to be unquestionable that the engineering science of the
 1328
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  explained that he did not mean to say that there was time for the directors to be aware of it. What he wished to intimate was, that when the accident appeared imminent from the state of the water it was possible there might be such an opportunity of letting the water out as would very much have lessened the evil that had occurred.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, that having been from the first a supporter of the Ten Hours Act, even at a time when it was very unpopular to advocate it, and having seen the good effects of that measure, his first impression was in favour of the present Bill. On a careful examination, however, he found that there was no ground for interference in this case, and that they were about to legislate in the dark. In the town he represented (Bradford), for instance, there were 1,500 men and boys employed in preparing and packing goods, who would be brought under the Bill. Of that number 400 were boys, and there were scarcely any women or children thus engaged—certainly not more than half-a-dozen. The hours of labour, taking the average of the year, were much shorter than those in the mills, being only about fifty-three or fifty-four hours a week in the former, and sixty hours in the latter case. Occasionally, for perhaps a week in the course of the year, under the pressure of business, the men and boys were kept longer at work, but on the whole their work was comparatively light. They stopped work at twelve or one p.m. on Saturday almost universally, and
 1363
 MR. MONSELL  said, his hon. Friend who had just sat down seemed to have entirely ignored the existence in Ireland of the non-vested schools. One-third of the schools in that country were non-vested schools, in which the patron had the right of giving what religious instruction he pleased, but where he was also compelled to give secular education to denominations differing from his own. Convent schools were conducted on the
 1349
 COLONEL SYKES  remarked on the enormous increase in the Educational Estimates since the year 1835, and urged
 1351
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Why the Return of Prosecutions under the Game Laws, from 1857 to 1862 inclusive, ordered by the House, was printed before the wanting Returns, 105 in number, were obtained. He could not but complain of the negligence of the clerks of the peace with respect to the Returns, but defective as they were the result of the Return as presented was, that there had been 30,673 convictions in England and Wales under the Game Laws from 1857 to 1862, and 3,326 prosecutions in Scotland. It was to the credit of the judicial authorities in Scotland that none of the Returns in reference to that country were wanting. In England, however, Returns were wanting from as many as 105 places, among which were Southampton, Horsham, Lewes, Uckfield, Marlborough, Exeter, Buckingham, Swansea, and Leamington. He might, perhaps, be told by the Home Secretary that he had no power to obtain the wanting Returns, but notwithstanding it was a just cause of complaint that £700 of the public money had been expended in printing defective Returns. No doubt that House had the power to insist that the order for the Returns should be obeyed; and if that order was not complied with, then the parties refusing to comply with it might be summoned to the Bar of the House. He thought that there ought to be some other method of getting the Returns so ordered; but, if not, he would not shrink from his duty, and would have the parties summoned to the Bar of the House, if necessary, when the parties would find themselves subjected to much heavier expense than the several Returns would have entailed upon them. Under the circumstances, he had had recourse to the annual judicial Returns of the Home Office, which were lucid in their details, and exhibited the moral condition of England and Wales in connection with offences. According to the Returns of the Home Office, the total number of offences against the Game Laws in 1857 numbered 5,480. In 1862, however, under the present most stringent law, they rose to 10,101 prosecutions, being an increase of nearly 100 per cent. In the six years ending in 1857 the prosecutions amounted to 30,673; but in the six years ending in 1863 they amounted to 49,845, of which 8,556 persons accused were dis-
 1325 d. s d. d. s d. s.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, there was no doubt the building was maliciously burnt, and that being so the Government thought it right to make a presentment. But it did not go before any grand jury, but before the town council of Cork, who, upon the advice of the Recorder, rejected it, and their decision was supported by the Court of Queen's Bench, and consequently the inquiry could not be gone into. The Irish law officers of the Crown were asked for their opinion, and they said that there was no case made out for going against any person, and consequently the matter fell to the ground. The Government were in no way to blame for the proceedings which they adopted.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, that no evidence could be obtained in the case to sustain a criminal prosecution.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  asked whether the Government meant to grant
 1356
 MR. BAINES,  in seconding the Amendment, said, he could confirm the statements of his hon. Friend the Member for Bradford from his own knowledge of what was done in the woollen district of Leeds. The Bill was of a very unprecedented character. There had been no inquiry, no grievance had been alleged, and the measure was opposed by those whom it was intended to protect. He would not, however, oppose the Bill if the right hon. Gentleman who had charge of it would exclude from the operation of the measure all large warehouses where women and children were not employed.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, that if it was a malicious burning the Government ought to prosecute the supposed authors of the crime.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, when in Committee the Government would fairly
 1365
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, I am not going to follow the hon. Gentleman opposite, who drew attention to the state of the reservoirs in the country, through all
 1326 1327
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he also wished to ask for an explanation of the increase of £200 to the Registrar's salary?
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to know whether the Government were prepared to insure the building?
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, that if the right hon. Gentleman who had charge of the Bill would promise to deal with the objections to the Bill in Committee, the House would probably agree to the second reading. He might add that he did not see why places of business where children or women were not employed should be subjected to any kind of inspection.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that nothing could be fairer than the manner in which the Colonial Secretary had met the statement of his right hon. Friend; but he hoped that the public services of Sir Francis Head—who, by his courage and public spirit had undoubtedly saved the Province of Upper Canada—would be met with something stronger than fair words. He inferred with pleasure that the right hon. Gentleman was disposed to meet this question fairly; but there was this one weak point in his speech—that he made the whole case of Sir Francis Head turn on the decision of the Government on the general question of pensions to Colonial Governors. The case of Sir Francis Head, however, did not stand on the same footing as that of other Colonial Governors: it was undoubted that by his spirit and firmness he had preserved Canada to the British Empire. He would only further notice the fact, that when Sir Francis Head was persuaded, against his own inclinations, to accept the Governorship of Canada, he gave up a permanent appointment which he then held as Poor Law Inspector, with a salary of £1,000 per annum. When he returned from his successful Governorship, Sir Francis Head applied to be permitted to resume his old office; but his request was refused. The consequence was that he had been a poor man ever since, although his claims in point of justice and good feeling were irresistible. It was to be hoped that when the House met next Session the Government would be prepared to show that they had taken a generous view of the case.
 SIR JOHN RAMSDEN  urged the postponement of the Bill to give time for inquiry. The reason given by the hon. Member for Knaresborough (Mr. Collins) for supporting the Bill appeared to him the strongest argument for its postponement. For what said the hon. Gentleman? That the Bill was opposed on the same grounds as those on which the Factory Acts had been opposed, and that the same evils existed in this case and required the same remedy. But that was assuming the very point at issue. The persons most deeply affected by the Bill denied the existence of any such evils. But they did not ask Parliament to believe this merely on their statement. They complained that no investigation had been made—they challenge inquiry. Their language was—inquire into the facts, and then, when the materials for forming a correct judgment are fairly before you, then if a case for legislative interference is made out, legislate if you will. The request was so reasonable, and dictated by a spirit of such manifest justice, that he hoped the House would not refuse it.
 MR. PEEL  said, he could perceive no ground for insuring that college more than any other public edifice. The Government, as was well known, were their own insurers.
 MR. PEEL  said, when the original design of the National Gallery in Dublin was determined upon it was to be maintained out of private funds. The plans were altered, and the building cost £28,000, and applications were made to Parliament for grants to purchase pictures. An Act of Parliament was passed, vesting the gallery in trustees, and if it was to be maintained out of grants of public money steps must be taken to declare that it was public property.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that nothing unusual had been done. There was no intention of setting aside the authority of the magistracy in Ireland, but in this case the mitigation of sentence had taken place because the Inspector General had reported that the man had not the money to pay the heavier fine.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : It may be desirable, Sir, that I should make a short statement with regard to some of the details of the Vote, in order that the Committee may have an opportunity of forming a correct judgment upon it. I will first
 1341 1342 1343 1344 1345
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that the last point referred to by the hon. Member was easily explained. The expenditure included the maintenance of fifty-eight agricultural pupils and teachers, which cost £1,250; salary for a lecturer on botany, £60, and for a practical instructor in agriculture, £200. Everybody knew that in the case of a model farm it was impossible to make the two ends meet. He believed there was a general adherence to the rules of the Board, and as regarded devotional services that they were performed after school hours. The system in Ireland brought together children of different denominations under the same school-roofs; and a proof that they were not compelled to go there was found in the fact that in the schools the children belonging to the different denominations bore a just relation to the relative numbers of the different denominations out of the schools. With respect to the number of the children attending the schools, it should be borne in mind that the number on the rolls always far exceeded the average daily attendance; and in Ireland the proportion was about the same as in this country.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, a Return moved for by the hon. Member for Limerick would specify the regulations with respect to convent schools. There were 186,000 Protestants in attendance at the National schools in Ireland. In addition to the Glasnevin establishment there were in every county in Ireland school farms, but he admitted the force of what was said by the hon. Member for Dungarvan, and would endeavour to introduce in rural schools an educational primer.
 MR. PEEL  said, that when the University was first founded it was proposed that the salary of the Registrar should be £1,000 a year; but it was thought better in the first instance that a smaller salary should be given. The salary was accordingly fixed at £500, and was raised from time to time till it reached £800 last year. It had now been raised to the maximum, £1,000. Dr. Carpenter had held the office for a considerable time, and its duties having very greatly increased, it was thought he had a fair claim to the full salary originally intended to be given.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that when he spoke of the subject as a painful one, he simply referred to certain charges which had been made and withdrawn, and which he did not think it was desirable to revive. A great number of rumours, he might add, were afloat with regard to the burning, and it was, he believed, true that the viscera of Mrs. Burke were in the laboratory of the College at the time the fire took place, but he did not know whether the burning was connected with her murder or not. That, he hoped, would be a sufficient explanation for the hon. Gentleman.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he could throw no light upon it, but he was happy to state that the accusation and counter statement which had been made on the subject had been entirely cleared up. Dr. Bullen had written a most handsome apology. It was not necessary to go again into the matter, and he trusted it might be allowed to rest.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he presumed that the object was to provide a superior class of teachers, and that the duty embraced classical instruction generally.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  explained, that the grant for instruction in the cultivation of flax was distributed by a joint committee of the Royal Dublin and Royal Irish Agricultural Societies, and the persons who were being sent into the districts where it was desired that the cultivation of flax should be introduced were not. Inspectors, but instructors, at £90 or £100 a year.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he rose to call attention to the Memorial of Sir Francis Bond Head, Bart., to the Secretary of State for the Colonies, laid upon the table of the House on the 6th day of June last, and in conclusion, That in the opinion of this House the great but hitherto unrequited services rendered by Sir Francis Bond Head, when Governor of Upper Canada, in the year 1837 and 1838, call for the favourable consideration of Her Majesty's Government, He admitted that the right hon. Gentleman the Colonial Secretary had acted in a handsome manner in causing all the documents which Sir Francis Head wished to have published appended to the memorial; but these documents having been laid before the House, he thought the House was entitled to express its opinion on the matters to which they referred, and he was sure they would
 1332 "I must be permitted to express to you my sincere regret and sorrow at your retiring from the Government of Upper Canada at the present moment, after the noble manner in which you have vindicated the honour of the British name, and of the British Constitution. The triumph which under your auspices have been achieved for the principles of English Constitutional Liberty over American Democracy, will render the period of your administration of the colony a conspicuous part of history." 1333 "We feel that not Upper Canada only, but the empire, owes to your Excellency a large debt of gratitude for your firm and manly avowal, upon all occasions, of those sentiments which became the representative of a British monarch; and for the unwavering support which your Excellency has never failed to give to the established principles of the Constitution. It is this fearless adherence to right principles, rather than to expediency, which has enabled your Excellency to rally round the Government in a moment of danger, the arms of an united people; and to exhibit this province to our Sovereign and to the world, in a posture which must command for its brave and loyal inhabitants the highest admiration and respect." "Upon looking back at the various important communications which have been made by your Excellency to the House of Assembly during the present Session, we cannot but congratulate you and the country upon the firm and noble attitude assumed by your Excellency in all those public documents which have emanated from your Excellency. When we reflect upon the occurrences that have taken place in Upper Canada, and upon its borders, within a few months past, and upon the distinguished part taken by your Excellency to maintain the honour and interests of our country, during that short but eventful period, we find equal cause of gratulation. Rebellion has been crushed; the attacks of perfidious citizens of a foreign Power have been repelled, and peace reigns triumphant within the bounds of your Excellency's Government. "The people of Upper Canada will ever retain a grateful recollection of the services of your Excellency; and they feel assured your Excellency will meet with a due reward at the hands of our youthful and beloved Queen," "Having, of course, had an opportunity of reading your correspondence with the Colonial Office, I can say sincerely that I most heartily and cordially concur in all your political views and measures, as far as I can collect them from that source, and most anxiously desire to maintain them." 1334 "Your conduct will also be subject to comparison with that of your immediate predecessor, an officer justly enjoying the confidence and gratitude of the great majority of the people of Upper Canada, and highly distinguished by the energy and success of his political career. In the general policy and conduct of your immediate predecessor, you will find an example worthy of imitation. I refer not, of course, to the comparatively few and unimportant measures in which I was most reluctantly compelled to dissent from his opinions, but to the main course and spirit of his policy, in which it was at once my duty and my happiness to signify to him the approbation of His late Majesty's Government, "Deeply regretting that on any ground Sir Francis Head should have considered it necessary, at the present moment, to resign his office, and, most sincerely lamenting that decision, Her Majesty's Government felt themselves compelled to submit to this inconvenience. I cannot, however, on this account, forget the nature of the services which he has rendered, nor can I testify my sense of them more strongly than by pointing out to your imitation the uncompromising firmness with which he resisted every endeavour to subvert the political institutions of Upper Canada, the energy with which he opposed himself to the enemies of order and of peace, and the frank and open bearing with which he threw himself upon the loyalty, the reason, and the public spirit of the great body of the people. "Guided by the general principles to which I have referred, and animated by Sir Francis Head's example, you will. I trust, successfully contend with any difficulties you may have to encounter." 1335
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I think the best answer I can make to the question of the hon. Gentleman is to say, that as far as Her Majesty's Government are informed at present, they have no reason to believe that there is any intention of attacking Copenhagen.
 MR. THOMPSON  said, he had no doubt the measure would be useful as far as it went, but it did not deal with the principal objections to the present management of highways. The large majority of the magistrates in the country had decided in favour of the adoption of the Act of 1862, and he believed that the best change in the law would be to make that Act compulsory. He wished to impress upon the Government the necessity of bringing in an effective Act next Session, dealing also with the turnpikes which were in an expiring condition, and including in its provisions all highways except those in the immediate neighbourhood of town.
 LORD HENLEY  trusted the hon. Member would not press his Amendment, as it would have the effect in many instances of taking away the privileges possessed by the lords of the manors.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the clause made no alteration in the existing law with regard to the feeding of cattle on the highway. It simply changed thy remedy which could be applied.
 LORD LOVAINE  thought the Amendment might be agreed to with the addition of other words excepting the rights of lords of manors.
 MR. BEACH  said, he would support the Amendment, because the animals created great damage to the fences at the side of the roads.
 SIR BALDWIN LEIGHTON  said, that if the Amendment were adopted it would do a great injury to many poor persons whom the roadside pasturage enabled to keep a cow or two. This privilege was very valuable to the poor cottagers.
 COLONEL GILPIN  said, he quite agreed with the hon. Baronet as to the inducement which ought to be held out to cottagers, but their cows ought not to be allowed to feed upon the pasturage of other people.
 MR. RICHARD HODGSON  objected to the Amendment because he believed it would have the effect of depriving many poor people of valuable privileges which had been handed down to them from their forefathers. In the parish where he resided
 1374
 MR. ADDERLEY  regarded highways as roads formed simply for purposes of traffic, and they ought not to be wider than was necessary for that purpose. The preservation of the pasturage on the road side, was not the best way of benefiting the poor cottagers. No land should be used for pasturage that was not properly enclosed. These presumed rights of pasturage were sometimes pressed to an extent as to interfere with the rights of owners of property.
 LORD HOTHAM  said, he would be glad to see the unnecessary width of many of the public roads reduced, but would at the same time be sorry to see any course pursued by which existing privileges would be disturbed. Any unnecessary width of a road was to that extent a waste of productive land.
 MR. FENWICK  then proposed the insertion of words confining the operation of the clause to highways not being more than thirty feet wide.
 SIR WILLIAM MILES  said, that was provided for by the present Highway Act. Where roads were forty or sixty feet wide they had been laid out under special Acts.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the provisos, if agreed to, would repeal the 74th section of the Highway Act. He did not see any objection to the insertion of a proviso saving existing rights of pasturage by the sides of highways.
 SIR BALDWIN LEIGHTON  proposed the insertion of a proviso to that effect.
 SIR WILLIAM MILES  thought it would be much better to leave the law as it now stood.
 MR. WALTER  suggested the employment of a better set of forms in the col-
 1375
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that he quite concurred in the desirability of the plan suggested by the hon. Member. A set of forms of the character described were already employed in London in the collection of the rates.
 SIR WILLIAM MILES  thought that all appeals ought to be brought before the Quarter Sessions, and not before the Special Sessions.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  concurred in the opinion expressed by the hon. Baronet. The magistrates of the Special Sessions were already  ex officio
 MR. COLLINS  advocated the retention of the clause in its original form, as appeals to the Quarter Sessions would be attended with great inconvenience and expense.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  opposed the Amendment, which he believed would have the effect of entirely nullifying the clause.
 LORD LOVAINE  thought the danger arising from the clause would be a dis-
 1376
 SIR GEORGE GREY  did not think the proviso necessary, inasmuch the Highway Board was a representative board.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  supported the Amendment, considering it desirable that the ratepayers should have a power of checking any unnecessary or excessive expenditure.
 SIR BALDWIN LEIGHTON  said, he did not see why Highway Boards should not be placed on the same footing as municipal bodies and various other public boards. At all events, if the Committee should sanction the Amendment, he trusted the words "in vestry assembled" would be inserted.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he was quite willing to adopt the suggestion.
 MR. COLLINS  proposed an Amendment, the object of which was to extend the time of the repayment of any loan from ten to twenty years.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he entertained a strong objection to the principle of giving borrowing powers for the first time to Boards of Highway, and moved the omission of the clause.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  expressed his approval of the clause, which, with some verbal Amendments, was  agreed to.
 MR. A. SEYMOUR  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, If the Foreign Office has any knowledge of a Despatch, headed "Official," dated 10th February, 1864, and purporting to come from Prince Gortschakoff at St. Petersburg to M. d'Oubril at Berlin, which was published in  The Morning Post
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, in reply, that he did not think it would be desirable to enter into any details upon the subject. That was just the sort of information which the owners of the slave-trading vessels would wish to obtain,
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  stated, in reply, that the  Victoria Victoria
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : I think the account which has been given to the House with regard to the speed of the slave ships and of our cruisers is somewhat exaggerated. I cannot at this moment state what the speed of our vessels is, but I may say that I have received no account of their being employed in chasing steamers, and not being able to do so. I am quite aware it is possible that very fast steamers may be constructed and used as slavers, and if we find that our steamers are unequal to the duties imposed upon them, it will undoubtedly be the duty of the Government to send out faster vessels. It is necessary, however, that the vessels we send to that station should for sanitary purposes be very roomy and airy; and as to their speed, although I do not think that any of our very fast steamers are out there, I am satisfied that the case has been much overstated.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS : The noble Lord simply told us that it was out of a newspaper, and my statement is entirely based upon that of the noble Lord. I do not, however, wish to prolong the discussion, I certainly protest against the language which has been made use of by I the noble Lord towards an independent Power like Brazil, and I see very little prospect of establishing satisfactory relations between that or any other Power, so long as the Prime Minister of this country permits himself to make use of such language.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS : This is not a question of the horrors of the slave trade, and the noble Lord might have spared us the well-known catalogue of evils and the inefficacy of the measures for their prevention. If, as the noble Lord has told us, the treaty with Spain has proved so useless, and the Act in reference to Brazil and Portugal so efficacious, why does he not propose a Bill with regard to Spain similar to the Aberdeen Act in regard to Brazil?
 1386
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether, with the view of protecting the public, it would not be possible to compel the Railway Companies to introduce into the carriages some mode of communicating with the guards? On the Continent there was a mode of communicating with the guard, and he thought the same system might be satisfactorily introduced upon the English railways.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman if he does not intend to take any steps to remove the dangers which are consequent upon our present railway system?
 MR. LAYARD : I am unable to say when; but, of course, it was laid upon the table.
 MR. LAYARD : This paper is evidently taken from a blue-book. I believe the statement made by my noble Friend was that it was a Brazilian despatch.
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, that he had no knowledge of either of the despatches referred to by the hon. Member,
 MR. C. S. BUTLER  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home
 1390
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he rose to move—
 "That the practice of appointing a Peer and Privy Councillor exclusively to the office of Postmaster General is one which is not directed or required by law, and does not particularly conduce to the convenience of the distribution of Ministerial appointments, or to the efficiency of the Public Service."
 MR. BRIGHT : Mr. Speaker, I see that you object to my rising, but I was going to protest against the practice of the noble Lord making a speech on a matter of this nature when other Members cannot reply. I shall, therefore, move the adjournment of the House, for the purpose of making one or two observations on the subject. I was not aware that any question was intended to be put on this matter to-night; but on repeated occasions the noble Lord has stated very much what he has stated this evening. Now, I should like to ask the noble Lord, whether he does not know that it was the opinion of Lord Aberdeen, who passed the Brazilian Act, that that Act ought to be repealed, and that the circumstances under which he thought it was justified—though I believe every lawyer thought otherwise—have passed away. Further, I might appeal to my right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade for his opinion upon this matter; for I think that on one occasion the right hon. Gentleman brought forward a specific Motion in favour of the repeal of that Act. Now, Sir, I have had an opportunity of knowing that that Act was one which gave the greatest offence to the Brazilian Government, the Brazilian Legislature, and people. I might quote the opinion of the late Lord Truro, who was no mean lawyer, that a more unjustifiable Act—an Act more entirely in defiance of International Law—never was passed by any Legislature. If that be so, and if the stale of things upon which the passing of that Act was justified has entirely passed away; and if, as we know, the relations between this country and Brazil have been of the most unpleasant kind from the day that Act was passed until this hour, and, as we know too, that until this Act is repealed the relations between the two countries will have no chance whatsoever of being placed upon a friendly and proper basis, I think the noble Lord might now at least give up this
 1381 1382
 MR. HARDCASTLE  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury whether the Brazilian Government have fulfilled their obligations with regard to the Africans liberated by British Cruisers, as to whom Earl Russell stated in a Despatch of June 6, 1863, that
 "Some thousands of negroes, captured in slave-trading vessels, and decreed many years ago by the Mixed Commission at Rio to be entitled to freedom, are, there is good reason to believe, up to the present time held in bondage, contrary to Law, and in violation of Treaty engagements."
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the Board of Trade had no Executive power or authority in the matter. He had no intention of introducing a Bill to compel the Railway Companies to provide means of communication.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON,  in reply, said, it would no doubt be possible to compel Railway Companies by legislation to introduce into the carriages some mode of communicating with the guards, but he doubted the expediency of doing so. As our railways were constructed, the question was surrounded with considerable practical difficulties. Evidence had been taken upon the subject before a Committee upstairs, and the Inspectors of railways were not by any means unanimous in agreeing with each other as to the expediency of adopting a plan whereby the passengers might be enabled to communicate with the guards. At the same time, they were all agreed that it was desirable that the guards should be able to communicate with the drivers, and the Board of Trade had sent out circulars to all the Railway Companies in order to carry out that object. He was afraid, from the construction of our railways and also of our carriages, that it would not be as practicable as it might appear to be at first sight, to introduce the continental system into this country. At any rate, he did not consider it desirable to bring in a Bill to compel Railway Companies to afford the means of communication.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he did not know what reward the railway company had offered, but Sir John Lubbock, Robarts, and Co. had offered yesterday a reward of £100, and the Government had offered a similar sum. He had not heard that the perpetrator of the murder had been apprehended, but he was informed that the chain taken from Mr. Briggs was changed yesterday by a silversmith, who had given a very good description of the person by whom it was presented.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, To lay upon the table of the House a list of the Steam Vessels now employed on the West Coast of Africa, with their speed as ascertained at the measured mile?
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he would certainly support the appointment of the Committee suggested by the hon. Gentleman; but he thought the inquiry should not be confined to this Brazilian matter, but should also embrace the state of affairs on the coast of Africa, for they had become most serious. At this moment we had 3,000 men dotted about that pestilential coast, and their condition was most appalling. Some 60 per cent had been prostrated by fever and the deadly climate in the horrible Ashantee war. The answer given by the Government in the discussion on this subject was essentially fallacious. The troops were in a state of starvation, for the country was in a state of famine. The policy of maintaining the establishments on the coast was a matter the consideration of which could not long be deferred. There was another question which was connected with this Motion, which seriously reflected on the naval administration. We maintained a squadron on that station at a cost of £600,000 or £700,000 per annum, and of that squadron not one ship excepting the  Rattlesnake
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, If there is any truth in the rumour that a wooden three-decker is being fitted as the new Flag Ship for the Mediterranean; and whether the Admiralty consider it prudent to employ a ship of that description on so important a duty?
 SIR JOHN HAY : Before the Motion is withdrawn, I wish to say a few words on the subject of the slave trade on the West Coast of Africa, and the attempts which are being made to put it down. We now maintain a squadron on the coast of Africa of eighteen steam-vessels, and I am informed that there is only one of them—the  Rattlesnake 1387
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I cannot help thinking that the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government has made use of expressions towards an hon. Friend near me which display a remarkable want of courtesy. The noble Lord first said that my hon. Friend must have known the reverse of what he stated, and he followed that up by imputing to my hon. Friend great ignorance if he did not know it. Now, I certainly distinctly heard the noble Lord say in answer to a question from my noble Friend (Lord John Manners) as to what despatch he had derived his information from, that he had learnt it from a newspaper. The noble Lord in answer to my noble Friend, has handed this marked paper across the table, and he says that it is taken from a blue-book. I wish to ask the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary
 1388
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : We do not take it of course.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD : The date is the 30th of June last year.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  would like to ask one question of the noble Lord on this subject. The noble Lord recited the twenty steps by which the Brazilian Government proposed that the  emancipados emancipados
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD : Sir, I am glad to take the opportunity of the Motion for adjournment of adding a few words to the question I put to the noble Lord. I desire to endorse what has been said by the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright), and to express the regret which the House must feel that the noble
 1383
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I do not think I am liable to the reproach which has been addressed to me. I did not volunteer a speech—I gave an answer to a question, and that question involved a statement which I know to be true. It is all very well for the hon. Gentleman opposite to deny it—he knows better. [Mr. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD: I do not.] Then I am sorry the hon. Gentleman is so ignorant. All I have said will be found in the papers laid on the table of the House. I have mentioned no facts which cannot be ascertained by any Gentleman who chooses to take the trouble. With regard to what has been said about the Act being a violation of every principle of International Law—[Mr. BRIGHT: I quoted Lord Truro.] I gave the words the hon. Gentleman adopted, at any rate. I can only say that the Act was exactly the counterpart of an Act which it was my duty to propose to the House in regard to Portugal; and these two Acts received the approval of the Law Officers of two different Governments. The
 1384 1385
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I am sorry to be obliged to say that the conduct of the Brazilian Government in regard to the slave trade has invariably been marked by great neglect and violation of treaty engagements. That circumstance, as everybody knows, led first of all to the Act of 1845, and then to the proceedings under that Act in 1852. Their conduct in regard to the  emancipados 1378 Curador précis 1379 emancipados emancipado emancipado,
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I do not know that this string of proceedings has ever been mentioned in any official communication from Brazil; it was extracted from a Brazilian newspaper, which gave it as an official document, and I believe it is perfectly correct. With regard to the other question which the hon. Gentleman has asked, he must know full well that if the Brazilian Government have of late years—that is since 1852—put an end to the slave trade, it has been by compulsion, and not upon conviction. The Act of 1845, as all know, lay for many years a dead letter, until the beginning of 1852, when through the agency of Sir James Hudson the provisions of that Act were brought into force. After an attempt of the Brazilian Government to evade compliance they were compelled to submit. I am quite ready to admit that when the
 1380
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : There is the blue-book from which I quoted.
 MR. GRANT DUFF : The difficulty which has been raised by the hon. Member for Berks is not a very serious one. Indeed, at this moment, a large proportion of the clergy of the Scotch Episcopal Church are in English orders, and amongst these are several of the best known Bishops. It is not often, Sir, that I agree with the hon. Baronet opposite, and I am accordingly all the more pleased to be able to do so on this occasion. I am not myself a member of the Scotch Episcopal body. I have no sympathy with the opinions which are popularly attributed to many of the gentlemen whom this Bill is intended to relieve. I object, however, in the strongest possible way to allowing the  odium theologicum
 MR. GRANT DUFF  explained that his allusion to Dr. Lee was quite incidental, and that if that gentleman, for whom he had great respect, was opposed to this Bill, he could only say he was sorry for it. The hon. Member for Perth (Mr. Kinnaird) would not, however, dream of denying that the account of the proceedings in the General Assembly which he (Mr. Grant Duff) had given, was, as far as his argument was concerned, strictly correct. He desired farther to explain, in reply to other speakers, that the Scotch Office was now merely a permitted use, and he would refer those who raised a difficulty about the Thirty-nine Articles to the proceedings which took place before the passing of the Act of 1792.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  appealed to the hon. Member for St. Ives (Mr. Paull) not to proceed further with the measure in the present Session. The Bill related to a subject which was included in a measure proposed by the Lord Chancellor to the other House, and which measure had been withdrawn in consequence of objections that were made to certain portions of it. The Lord Chancellor was not satisfied with the present
 1432
 Mr. J. A. TURNER, Mr. BEECROFT, and Mr. CLAY  said, that they had received very strong remonstrances from their constituents against the Bill.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  denied that the Government were opposed to the principle of the Bill. The Lord Chancellor adopted the principle of this Bill, and was only desirous of considering whether the objections made to it could be met.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  thought this was a Bill which the House could not sanction. The first clause proposed a fundamental alteration in the law of evidence by permitting criminals to give evidence. If criminals were allowed to give evidence on their own behalf, they must be liable to be cross-examined against themselves. Then if it was enacted that a criminal might give evidence, the practical effect would be that he must give evidence, or his abstaining from doing so would be construed in his disfavour. The second section was very remarkable. It was that—
 "In cases where any persons shall be charged with any offence which consists wholly or mainly in the annoyance occasioned to the public or to individuals." 1434 "It shall be necessary to adduce evidence to the satisfaction of the magistrate other than that of the police or constable by whom any person shall be apprehended of such annoyance having been occasioned."
 MR. T. G. BARING , on the part of the Government, said, he could assure the hon. Gentleman that the attention of the Secretary of State would be seriously given to the subject.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  desired to assure the House that he was influenced by higher considerations than the mere desire to protect foxes, and he should therefore support the Amendment, because he believed that the Bill would prevent the owners of sheep in Ireland from protecting their flocks against the large number of dogs which committed so much havoc among their stock.
 MR. PAULL  said, he would support the Bill, which he regarded as supplementing a measure of his own which he had been fortunate enough to pass, and which he was satisfied had been attended with the happiest effects.
 MR. DAWSON  said, he should support the Amendment on the score of humanity, as he regarded the Bill as being most objectionable.
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  believed the
 1436
 MR. H. BERKELEY  denied that he had brought in the Bill merely for the protection of the foxes, though he believed that if the fine and manly sport of foxhunting were once dropped the character of the English and Irish gentleman would deteriorate. The reason why he had brought it forward was because he had received numerous statements, from which he learnt that dogs and even pigs had been killed, owing to the practice of using poisoned food. Many shepherds' dogs and valuable pointers had fallen victims to the practice, and human life even had been endangered. He was not disposed to deny the right of any one to get rid of vermin, or even foxes if they so pleased, but such riddance should be effected by means of traps, and not of poison. He believed that the House, too, had a perfect right to prevent gentlemen from preserving game at the expense of the community.
 MR. HUNT  said, he thoroughly approved the object of the Bill, but thought it was framed in a manner which needed considerable alteration. He believed that it ought to have been sent to a Select Committee. He could not resist the statement which had been made with reference to the destruction of sheep in Ireland by dogs, but he thought at the same time that poisoned meat ought only to be resorted to with certain restrictions. He believed, moreover, that the Bill was very little calculated to preserve foxes, because by the third clause of the Bill a man was at liberty to place any poison in a dwelling-house, building, rick, or stack, for the destruction of vermin. Now, as a foxhunter, he certainly did not look upon foxes as vermin, but, as a farmer, he viewed them in an entirely different light.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  asked, if the money was required towards the construction of a central arsenal?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, it was not.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  asked, if it was intended to take a Vote for that purpose this year?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, there was no such intention.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he would not give the House the trouble to divide on his Amendment.
 MR. KINNAIRD  rose to move, as an Amendment,
 "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire how far any Privileges which may be conferred upon the Clergy of the Episcopal Church in Scotland would interfere with the Treaty of Union between England and Scotland, and into the expediency of removing at the same time from the Ministers of the Established Church of Scotland the disabilities imposed on them by the Act 13 & 14  Charles 1419 "I, —, do hereby solemnly promise that …. I will not appeal from any sentence to a civil court, but acquiesce in the decisions of the ecclesiastical authorities." "I will co-operate with my colleagues in supporting a steady adherence to the truths and doctrines by which our Church has been so happily distinguished, and particularly to the doctrine of the Holy Eucharist, as laid down in our excellent Communion Office." 1420 Vict. Charles 1421
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE : He could not be, because he is a Frenchman.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE , in moving that the Bill be now read the second time,
 1392 bonâ fide 1393 1394 George Vict. 1395 1396 1397 "It was desirable not to disregard the feelings of the clergy, but it was also desirable not to attach too much importance to them. The fact was that the clergy were necessarily, from their profession—and he was very thankful for it— averse to change, and changes for the better did not receive from that body the consideration and favour which they deserved. It was doubtful whether, with regard to the abolition of non-residence and other reforms which had taken place in the Church, if the decision had rested with the whole body of the clergy, that properly Conservative spirit which animated them would not have led them to say that the safer course was to leave things as they were," 1398 "The removal of the only test now required of Tutors and Fellows would tend to give the control, government, and instruction of youth into the hands of persons of divergent religious creed, or of no creed at all." "Consistently with the Articles of the Church of England, the Church could not intrust her future instruction to persons who had given no security for the soundness of their faith." "The harmony at present existing must be disturbed by the admission of persons differing on the most important of all subjects." 1399 usque ad nauseam,
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE : I shall vote for this Bill, which stands on the same ground as that which I had the honour of moving this afternoon. This is a matter affecting civil and not spiritual privilege. By Act of Parliament, a number of persons have been deprived of that which is a common right of Her Majesty's subjects, and on that ground I shall vote for this
 1431
 LORD HENRY SCOTT , with reference to the Question put by the hon. Member for Berkshire (Mr. Walter), said, that eighty-five—the majority of the Scottish Episcopal clergy—were in English, and seventy-nine—the minority — in Scotch orders; and that the effect of the Bill, if passed, would be to place the seventy-nine clergymen in Scotch orders on the same footing with the eighty-five in English orders, who at present are allowed, and to whom no English Bishop would refuse permission to officiate in any parish, or to accept any benefice or charge in his diocese, and who are at liberty to return to Scotland to officiate there. He was glad to find that on both sides of the House and by all varieties of religious opinions the Bill had been favourably received. He, therefore, hoped the second reading would be assented to.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he was sorry to find that the Government were not prepared to support the Bill, which only proposed a simple act of justice to the people, and ought not to be rejected solely because Chambers of Commerce, which had obtained a bankruptcy law to their liking, objected to a measure which would benefit other classes.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he was aware of the difficulty there would be in proceeding with this Bill, but he thought the House ought to have some distinct statement of the intentions of the Government.
 MR. BLACK : Sir, I am desirous of stating in a very few words my reasons for supporting the Bill now before the House. I have had the privilege and pleasure of being acquainted with some of those in whose interests this Bill has been intro-
 1428 1429
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. NEATE  said, that Roman Catholics might be justified in arguing that the endowments of the Universities did not belong exclusively to the Church of England; but such a plea did not lie in the mouths of individuals who had accepted the modified Church which had been established by Act of Parliament. The same Act that settled the Church settled all the subsidiary and educational arrangements. He would remind the House that there were private institutions in connection with the Church which were founded for the express benefit of the Church of England. In his opinion it was most undesirable that the barriers which now excluded those who were not members of the Church of England from all interference with such institutions should be broken down. If the Bill were passed, the Universities would be precluded from taking into consideration in the election of Fellows whether the candidate was a member of the Church of England or not, and if he had passed the best examination they would be bound to elect him. The result would be that they might have Fellows and Tutors of colleges who would be precluded from becoming members of the governing body. As the law now stood persons were allowed to leave money for the propagation of Roman Catholic and Dissenting doctrines, and the trustees of such endowments could protect themselves from the intrusion of members of the Church of England. But if this Bill passed, it would deny to members of the
 1408
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, I am aware that there is a desire to suppress all expression of individual opinion upon this side of the House; but I am not likely to submit to the complete suppression of opinion which is desired. My attention has been called for a considerable number of years to this subject. I am perfectly willing to leave the interests of the Church of Scotland in this matter in the hands of the hon.
 1424 1425 1426 1427
 MR. HADFIELD : It seems to me a very extraordinary fact, that one denomination happening to dwell on one side of the Tweed should entertain the same sentiments as another class of Christians dwelling on another side of the Tweed, and yet should have no communication whatever. That is a remarkable fact.
 1430 "I felt that neither the power of your intellect, nor vigour of your reason, nor mighty eloquence, nor purity of life, nor suavity of manners, nor soundness in the faith would justify me in departing from the rule of the Church of England, a tradition of eighteen centuries, which declares your orders irregular, your mission the offspring of division, and your Church system — I will not say schism— but standing apart."
 MR. HADFIELD  thought the Bill was an excellent one, and only carried out a principle which was already acted upon in civil causes.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, this was a subject that the Government ought to take up. For fifty years past the system in Jersey had been condemned, and he contended that the Government ought to make this an Imperial question, and not leave it in the hands of a private Member.
 MR. WHALLEY  thought the hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor General had not fairly represented the nature of the Bill; but in deference to the general feelings of the House he would not trouble them to divide.
 MR. WHALLEY , in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, its main object was to be found in the first clause, which provided that—
 "In all cases where any person shall be charged with any offence punishable by summary conviction before Justices of the peace or a magistrate, the person so charged and his wife or her husband, as the case may be, shall be competent to give evidence on the hearing of such charge."
 MR. WHALLEY  said, that the ritual and creed of the Church of England were framed so as to open wide the doors to a considerable variety of opinion. At the same time, the Church was intended to be a spiritual garrison against the aggressions of a foreign political power under a religious disguise—a wolf in sheep's clothing. Unfortunately the Universities had of late years served too much as a bridge from the Church of England to the Church of Rome. From Oxford, at any rate, a great number had found their way to Rome. The remarks of the right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken showed that the Catholics believed the present system to be to their advantage, and that was a very suspicious circumstance. He supported the Bill because it would tend to dilute a dangerous element in the Universities.
 MR. PAULL  said, he would have liked to have adopted the course pointed out by the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton), but after the opinions which had been expressed by other Members, he should not ask the House to go on with his Bill at present. It had none of the objectionable features of the Bill of the Lord Chancellor, but instead of curtailing the credit of the working classes it would extend it. He should at an early period of next Session introduce the same Bill.
 MR. LOCKE  said, that on that understanding he was willing not to press the Bill, but he hoped that the Government would do more than consider the subject, and that in the next Session they would be prepared to deal practically with it.
 MR. WALTER : Sir, I think it may perhaps tend to shorten this discussion, and may assist myself, and probably other hon. Members, in coming to a decision, if some of the hon. Gentlemen who are particularly interested in this question would be kind enough to explain to the House what would be the precise status of a clergyman of the Scottish Episcopal Church admitted under the provisions of this Bill to an English benefice, supposing the measure to be passed. I think that is necessary and material to the question we are going to vote upon; and as my own opinion is not quite made up as to how I should vote, I wish to state what my difficulty is. The point which I wish to have cleared up is this—Will an Episcopal clergyman of the Church of Scotland who has been admitted to an English benefice be at liberty to go back to Scotland, and officiate as a clergyman of the Scottish Episcopal Church? My hon. Friend (Mr. Kinnaird) seems to be under some apprehension that there is some attempt to effect a sort of amalgamation between the English and the Scottish Episcopal Church. I do not know whether such a scheme is on foot, but I think it would be a very mistaken policy. It would be creating a sort of spiritual Schleswig-Holstein in Scotland, and indeed a more uncomfortable state of things could hardly exist. I understand the law to be that at present an English clergyman is not at liberty to go into an Episcopal Church in Scotland and read the Scotch Communion Service; that is a point about which there is a good deal of jealousy in this country, and I want to know whether under this Bill a Scotch clergyman coming into England, and appointed to an English benefice, will be at liberty to go back to Scotland and officiate as a Scotch Episcopal clergyman in Scotland. If that be answered in the negative, I shall have no difficulty in supporting this Bill; but I should deprecate any arrangement which would leave the Scotch clergyman at liberty to go back to Scotland and officiate as a clergyman of the Scotch Episcopal Church, That is a point on which my hon. Friend
 1423
 MR. MALINS  also recommended that the Bill be withdrawn. He greatly regretted the withdrawal of the Lord Chancellor's Bill, and trusted that next Session an effective measure would be introduced to put an end to grievances which were admitted to exist. He was opposed to imprisonment for debt in any form, and in the case of small debtors especially imprisonment was often ruinous to the debtor, and was seldom or never beneficial to the creditor.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bouverie) would have done well if he had followed the course he took last year, and had not pressed the second reading at this period of the Session. If the measure would, as the right hon. Gentleman said, make no difference whatever as far as the Universities were concerned, where was the necessity for pressing its adoption upon the House? The right hon. Gentleman withdrew the Bill last year on the ground that the Ses-
 1400 1401 1402 "There is another matter connected with the admission of Dissenters to the Universities, which, I think, is much more encumbered with doubt, but still, I throw it out for consideration. I refer to the expediency and the justice of admitting persons not belonging to the Established Church to all the privileges consequent upon their attendance at the Universities, besides the right to obtain degrees. And here I particularly allude, not to their acquiring any share in the government of the Universities — that is a matter which might be easily arranged — but to the right of having fellowships and scholarships. The difficulty upon that point is considerable, and I have no hesitation in saying, strong advocate of the Dissenters as I have ever been, that I see opinions expressed in some of their petitions which show that these excellent persons, in putting forward their claim, have not well weighed the reasons for which fellowships were, for the most part, endowed. The Dissenters have no more right, strictly speaking, to admission to fellowships and scholarships, endowed by the founders for the benefit of the Established Church, than any member of the Church of England would have a right to share in the endowments founded at Highbury or Homerton, Maynooth or Stonyhurst, or any other dissenting college, Catholic or Protestant. — [3  Hansard, 1403 1404 1405 Essays
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  thought it was desirable that the States of Jersey should themselves take up the question, and he hoped that they would do so before next Session.
 MR. HORSFALL  said, that a very strong remonstrance had been sent from Liverpool against this Bill, and, therefore, he would urge the hon. Member not to press it at this late period of the Session.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he hardly expected that the point for discussion would have been whether we should substitute for the denominational system of the Universities a mixed system of education; and was astonished to find that he had been mistaken in the scope of the Bill of the right hon. Gentleman. Having laid down the principle that the change he sought to make did not touch religion, but merely removed certain civil disabilities to which those that did not belong to the Church of England were subjected, the right hon. Gentleman, thirty-three or thirty-four years after the passing of the Emancipation Act, wished to continue these disabilities so far as they touched Roman Catholics, and to place them on a pinnacle to be pointed at by every person of any religion or no religion; and yet he presented himself with professions of liberality on his lips, whilst endeavouring to perpetrate what, on his own principles, was a monstrous injustice. He (Mr. Monsell), if he agreed with the right hon. Gentleman's premises, should protest against a course which would place his co-religionists in so degrading a position. He, however, took other ground. He felt strongly that it would be an enormous advantage to all Her Majesty's subjects to have admission to the national Universities. The only limitation recommended by the Cambridge Commissioners was this—that those who were not members of the Church of England had the right to ask from the Univer-
 1406
 MR. MONSELL  said, his right hon. Friend must be hard driven to make such an observation as that. M. Ernest Renan, if he were an Englishman, might under this Bill become a Fellow of the University; and that was another instance of his right hon. Friend's liberality. How many Members of that House would send their children to a college where they would be likely to meet such tutors? How had the system, sought to be now introduced, worked in other countries? The system had been tried in Belgium, and the religious people of that country in 1830 rose up against the King of Holland. What was the case in France? What was the Comte de Gasparin's opinion? He was a Protestant, and he had shown the evils of the system at the Lycée; as also had Montalembert. In France the religious classes were abandoning the Government Lycées and establishing institutions of their own. This Bill was the first step to the principle of dissevering religion from education, and such as it ought to be resisted. Let them reject it now, and he called upon hon. Gentlemen opposite to assist in passing a measure which would allow those who were not members of the Church of England to found colleges of their own within the Universities; thus on the other hand giving them the opportunity of enjoying the inestimable advantages of University education, and on the other in no degree weakening the con-
 1407
 COLONEL SYKES : As a Scotch Member I entirely concur in the Bill.
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE : * 1409 1410 1411 1412 1413 1414 1415 1416 1417 ab extra 1418
 MR. STIRLING  said, I only rise for the purpose of expressing how deeply I feel—a feeling which, I am sure, is shared in by a large majority of the Scotch Members—the kindness of my hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford, in having taken this matter up, and to thank him for the admirable speech in which he introduced the second reading of the Bill —a speech on which he may fairly rest the success of the measure, and which has been wholly unanswered by the speeches that have been made in opposition to the Bill.
 LORD STANLEY  said, he rose chiefly in consequence of the appeal which had been made to him by his hon. Friend (Mr. R. Hodgson) in reference to certain clauses which his hon. Friend had obtained the consent of the House to refer to the Committee on Railway Bills. Unfortunately, up to the present time, that Committee had been unable to take those clauses into their consideration. Their excuse must be that every Member of it had been occupied in presiding over some one of the Committees sitting on Private Bills. He thought the more convenient course would be that that matter, as well as the other subjects for consideration, should be referred to the Committee on Standing Orders about to meet. With regard to the plan of his hon. and gallant Friend (Colonel Wilson Fatten), in one part of it he cordially concurred—namely, the proposed reduction in the number of Members on Private Bill Committees from five to four. He had himself last year proposed a still further reduction, feeling sure that three Members in such cases would act under a greater sense of responsibility than a larger number. As to the possibility of one of the Members being taken ill and additional power being thereby thrown into the hands of the Chairman, it would be recollected that when he made his proposition he coupled it with a proviso that no Member should be required to serve more than ten days on a Private Bill Committee, except to finish the hearing of a case that had been actually begun. Under such an arrangement he believed that little or no practical inconvenience would result from smaller Committees. As to the adoption of some rule to prevent a multiplicity of witnesses being called to establish the same point, he thought the Committee had ample power now, and, if a Chairman knew his duties, it was not necessary that there should be any such rule of the House, for it was easy to intimate to counsel when sufficient proof had been adduced on a particular point. There was not, as a rule, according to his experience, any intentional waste of time by counsel. The leading counsel of the Parliamentary Bar were men of high position and reputation. They had little or nothing to gain personally by lengthening out these inquiries; and whenever there
 1462 locus standi.
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, that a distinct recommendation with reference to the power of awarding costs had been adopted by the Committee which reported last week. It would be necessary, however, that an Act of Parliament should be passed on the subject if possible during the present Session.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON , in reply, said, the form of the Question ap
 1468
 MR. HANBURY TRACEY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether, considering the great want felt amongst Naval Chaplains for a head of that department, it is the intention of the Admiralty to revive that part of the Order in Council of 4th March, 1812, which provided for the appointment of a Chaplain General to preside over the Chaplains of the Royal Navy in the same manner as is now practised in regard to Chaplains in the Army?
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether any Despatches have been received by him that day relative to the late unfortunate battle in New Zealand?
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, that if New Zealand had the securities to offer which the Secretary for the Colonies said she had, it was ridiculous to suppose that she would not be able to borrow two or three millions of money in this country. The real difficulty in the case was, that the colony was not prepared to pay a sufficiently high rate of interest. They sought to obtain a loan at 5½ per cent, when settled colonies like Canada were only able to borrow at 6 per cent. If they went into the market and offered 6 per cent they would readily obtain all they required. Their difficulty was not that they could not borrow the money, but it was simply a question of a half per cent. He should support the Amendment, because he regarded it as a false principle to guarantee loans of this description.
 LORD STANLEY , interposing, wished to know whether the hon. Member for Peterborough was in order, whereupon the hon. Member resumed his seat without further remark.
 LORD STANLEY : I confess, Sir, I have formed my opinion upon this subject after considerable hesitation and doubt, and I now ask permission to state very briefly the reasons which have influenced me. I object, Sir, to this guarantee mainly on the ground that it seems to me we are giving assistance to the colony in the worst form possible. There is nothing more tempting, but at the same time more fallacious, than the idea of helping your friend without injuring yourself by becoming his security. We all know what that practice comes to in private life. I say if we are to give assistance to the colony of this kind it is much better to give it in hard money paid down at once, for in that case you know the extent of your liability and are under no illusion. But it seems to me that in this case the responsibility you will incur is totally out of proportion to the amount of aid given. The sum guaranteed is £1,000,000, and no one disputes the fact that the colony would be able to raise that amount, say at 7 per cent, in the usual way, without resorting to any guarantee. But if the money be borrowed upon our security it could be raised at 4 per cent, making the difference in the interest £30,000. Now, if Her Majesty's Government have come to the conclusion that they ought to help the colony in a financial way, I think it will be far better and cheaper for them to pay down at once this
 1518 1519
 MR. COWPER  said, it was a mistake to suppose that the space now occupied by the Royal Academy would, if added to the existing accommodation, be sufficient to receive all the national pictures. It might provide for the Ancient Masters, but it would be insufficient for the exhibition of the British pictures, which were for the present at South Kensington. He was sure that the House would not wish to deal with this subject in a partial or incomplete manner: any proposal ought to be complete in itself, and worthy of the pictures and of the nation. If the House had accepted the proposal made by the Government to erect a National Gallery at the back of the Burlington site, they would have had at a moderate cost a building which would have been unrivalled for grandeur in internal arrangements. There was, no doubt, on the part of many hon. Members, a great objection to remove the national pictures from what was called the "finest site in Europe," and there was a disposition on the part of many hon. Mem
 1524
 MR. COWPER  said, the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Ayrton) had taken a very narrow view of the ground of the vote given on a previous occasion, but undoubtedly many of those who divided with the majority had a larger and more suitable view of the requirements of the National Gallery. For example, the hon. Member for Poole (Mr. H. Seymour) had found fault with the Government for not providing a large, handsome, and, of course, expensive building in the rear of the National Gallery; and many other hon. Gentlemen had at different times stated that what they objected to was the false economy of the Government in not erecting a gallery worthy of the nation. The hon. and learned Member, therefore, had no right to assume that he represented the opinion of the majority upon that vote. The truth was there were many opinions held by the majority, and this rendered it difficult for the Government to say what they would do. If the House was content with the building as it stood and with the crowding of the pictures, that was a decision easily enough understood; but if they desired a building large enough to contain all our pictures, and one really worthy of our grand collection, it was impossible to be satisfied with the present building. If the pictures were brought from South Kensington, the rooms now occupied by the Royal Academy would not be sufficient to hold them. The portion of the building occupied by the National Gallery comprised 9,641 superficial feet of floor space and 860 lineal feet in a horizontal line; that occupied by the Royal Academy contained 7,391 superficial and 650 lineal feet, making a total of 1,510 lineal feet which the whole building would provide. Now the Keeper of the National Gallery said that the whole of the pictures would require 700 feet more than the 1,500 which the building contained. The hon. Member for Swansea (Mr. Dillwyn) had misunderstood him.
 1530
 VISCOUNT PALMBRSTON : I think my hon. Friend is the last man in the House to interpret the vote of the other evening. If I am not mistaken my hon. Friend had no opinion on the subject whatever. His mind appeared to have been so shaken by the arguments employed on the two sides that he ran away from the division altogether, and I think that he is, therefore, not entitled to put any construction upon the nature of the votes recorded by other hon. Members. I can assure my hon. Friend that we accept the vote of the House the other evening as being against our proposal, which was to remove the National Gallery to Burlington House, and to allow the Royal Academy to remain in its present position. This discussion, however, arose in consequence of a question proposed by my hon. Friend the Member for Truro, who has called upon us this evening to state what arrangement we proposed to make for the removal of the Royal Academy from Trafalgar Square.
 MR. COWPER  believed that the Trustees already gave the necessary facilities in cases where application was made.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  trusted the Committee would allow this stage of the measure to be taken. The object of the Resolution was to obtain leave to continue works the principle of which had been already sanctioned by the House. There would be several opportunities hereafter for discussing the nature of the works more fully. If the Committee would allow him, he would state what was the financial position of the fortification scheme. There had been expended up to the 1st of March of this year, £2,854,000, and up to the end of July there would be an additional outlay of some £300,000, making a total of £3,154,000. The total sum voted last year was £3,850,000, therefore they would have a balance in hand of nearly £700,000. That sum, however, would be available only for the particular works for which the money had been voted, and it was necessary, therefore, to ask for £650,000 more. He should be quite willing to answer any questions that might be asked, but he submitted that on the whole the more convenient course would be to defer particulars until they should have the Bill before them.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that no new works as to the principle of which the House had not already pronounced would be undertaken. The House had already had the schedule of the works three times before it. It would be competent for any hon. Member, when the schedule of the Bill was before the House, to move that a particular work should not be continued.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  replied that the original scheme contemplated the purchase of a site for a Central Arsenal the intentions of the Government on the subject were by no means given up, but it was not intended this year to ask for any money for the purpose. With regard to the Spithead forts, the question as to where the works ought to be placed bad been referred to a Committee, and he believed their Report would be presented in a few days.
 MR. LIDDELL  thought it perfectly right that art should be encouraged, but protested against the principle that the Government were in any way bound to procure accommodation for the Royal Academy.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : It will be laid on the table to-night.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, in reply, that the question of appointing a Chaplain General of the Navy had been brought before the Committee upon Naval' Promotion and Retirement, and evidence had been taken upon it. It was, however, felt, that although certain advantages might result from such an appointment, it would interfere with the discipline of the navy if the chaplains on board ships had to look to any other authority than the captains of their vessels.
 LORD EDWARD HOWARD  desired to point out the great hardship to which
 1463
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  thought the suggestion of the noble Lord well deserving the serious consideration of the House. The hardship inflicted on private individuals by railway projectors compelling them to go before that House at a gigantic expense ought not to be suffered to continue. The remedy for that was very easy. There was no other tribunal in the kingdom which was not armed with the power of mulcting in costs those who inflicted, for frivolous and vexatious reasons, heavy expense on their opponents; yet all attempts to arm Parliament with that power had hitherto been made in vain. So intense was the contempt which the House entertained for the tribunals which it persisted in maintaining that it would not arm it with one of the most rudimentary functions of a tribunal. The House placed in its hands the power to dispose of enormous sums of money, and gave it a jurisdiction over gigantic interests; but when it came to the question of inflicting costs, either on those who promoted foolish schemes or who set up a frivolous defence, it was said, "Oh, the constitution of this tribunal is so peculiar that you can't invest it with authority to do that!" Their reluctance to give that authority to these Committees was, to his mind, the most damaging condemnation of the whole system which it would be possible to pronounce. Among the other useful reforms which the hon. and gallant Gentleman had undertaken in that system, he trusted that he would turn his mind to this, which was, on the whole, the greatest grievance of all. He therefore concurred with all the hon. and gallant Gentleman's proposals, and he hoped they would be effectually car
 1464
 MR. AYRTON  said, the hon. and gallant Member for North Lancashire proposed that three persons, in addition to the Chairman of Ways and Means, should be appointed Referees, one of whom was to be an engineer officer; he wished to ask whether the other Referees were to be Members of the House, and to have the power of out-voting the Chairman of Ways and Means? He also suggested that the House should not affirm the proposals absolutely, but should adopt them as an Instruction to the Select Committee to consider these points.
 MR. AYRTON  certainly must express
 1528
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, as he understood that he had rather taken the President of the Board of Trade by sur-
 1469
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he wished to ask, Whether the right hon. Gentleman was not aware that all through the Continent, and in other places, there were means of communication which did not exist in this country between the passengers and the guards?
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  rose, pursuant to notice, to move that the Bill be read a second time that day three months. He had refrained from offering any opposition to the earlier stages of the measure, because he thought it fairer that the House should be in possession of all the papers on the subject; but now that the House was called upon to express an opinion upon the principle of the Bill, he was determined to give it all the resistance in his power. It would be admitted on all hands that the general principle of an Imperial guarantee for a colonial loan was objectionable. That was laid down by high authorities. It so happened that this was not the first time that a similar demand was made. In 1857 an Imperial guarantee was asked for a loan to New Zealand, and the House would forgive him if he read a few words which fell on that occasion from the late Sir James Graham. On the 6th of August, 1857, when it was proposed that the Imperial Parliament should guarantee a loan, Sir James Graham said—
 "I think the relations between the mother country and the colonies cannot be placed on a more insecure basis than that of creditor and debtor. Whatever aid is afforded to the colonics should, in my opinion, be in the nature of a grant, the reasons for which may be assigned, sifted, and debated in this House. I regard these dormant securities as dangerous, and I think the motto on the entablature of the Colonial Minister's official residence in Downing Street should be— "No lender be; "For loan oft loses both itself and friend." —[3  Hansard, cxlvii. 1472 1473 bonâ fide 1474 1475 formâ pauperis,
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  asked whether the territorial revenue as well as the revenue derived from the Customs could be applied to the purposes of the loan?
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  objected to the item of £2,000 for incidental expenses of the establishment—travelling, agencies, &c, which he thought was a large percentage on the £8,000 which had been expended in the purchase of pictures. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Board of Works would take this opportunity of giving some information as to the decisions of the Government with regard to the removal of the Royal Academy. If the Royal Academy were provided for elsewhere there would be ample room in Trafalgar Square for all the national pictures, because there was a lower suite of rooms which would be admirably suited for the exhibition of cabinet pictures. He hoped to get a distinct pledge from the right hon. Gentleman on this subject.
 MR AUGUSTUS SMITH  submitted that he was entitled to an answer to his plain question—namely, whether the Government, after the recent Vote, were taking any steps for the removal of the Royal Academy from Trafalgar Square? When that removal was effected there would be quite sufficient accommodation in the National Gallery for all the pictures we now had and all which we were likely to get for some time. It should be borne in mind that there was nearly as large a space below the present Exhibition rooms as there was in those rooms themselves. There was no occasion for a grand scheme. Nobody wanted it but the hon. and learned Member for Southwark (Mr. Locke). It seemed to him that the First Commissioner, ignoring the recent Vote of the House, insisted only on the objections to keeping the collection in Trafalgar Square.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH : I asked whether the Government had taken any steps for the removal of the Royal Academy from Trafalgar Square?
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that on the whole he was prepared, after the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, to give his support to the second reading of the Bill. It was very true that the colony could raise the money for itself; but the guarantee of the Imperial Treasury would enable it to raise as much money as was guaranteed on terms so much more favourable that it might be described as on assistance from England to New Zealand to the amount, perhaps, of £20,000 or £30,000 a year. The question then arose whether there was any risk to ourselves in giving that assistance, and a sufficient reason for affording it? He was as strongly against guarantees for colonial loans as any Member of the House, not so much for fear of risk to the Imperial Treasury, but because he entirely agreed with what had fallen from the hon. Member for Taunton on that point; he entirely concurred with the statement of Sir James Graham, which the hon. Member had cited, that there could hardly be anything more disastrous to the connection between the mother country and the colony than that there should spring up between them the relation of creditor and debtor. But while he entertained that general opinion against the system, he believed there were good reasons for making the present case an exception to the rule. The expenses incurred in these wars with Natives had arisen from a policy originated by the mother country for the protection of the rights of the Natives. It was not till 1852
 1502 1503 protege; quid pro quo ipso facto 1504 quid pro quo,
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, the result was much the same. The question was, had we better security for £40 than for £5 being paid or not remitted? If New Zealand could not pay £5 could she pay £40? And if she could would she? Of course when £5 per man could not be obtained, the chances seemed much less that £40 would be paid. Perhaps no provision on this point could be introduced into the Bill, because the liability was fluctuating and not fixed, and therefore no fixed stipulated payment on it could be enacted. Ten thousand men might be wanted one year, and perhaps more the next. He understood the right hon. Gentleman, however, to say that he was willing to introduce into the Bill in Committee such terms as would render it impossible that the Imperial Treasury should be liable for the guarantee until the colonial Parliament had passed some sort of a Resolution, pledging them to fulfil that part of the bargain. Even such a Resolution would be imperfect, for it would not be binding except on one Parliament, and, indeed, in one Session. At the same time, there was nothing in the annals of New Zealand to justify the supposition that the colony would repudiate a solemn Resolution passed by its Legislature. A solemn Resolution connected with benefits actually received, would constitute such an amount of equitable and honourable obligation that he had no fear that the colony
 1505
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, what he had stated was, that the policy of the Home Government was not a policy of extermination.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE : I will not follow the hon. Member for Peterborough (Mr. Whalley) in his pursuit of the Jesuits, whom he finds in every part of the world, and thinks have been at work in the forests of New Zealand; but if we are to take the statement he has made with respect to the conduct of the Roman Catholic Church in Canada
 1510 sine quâ non 1511 1512 "You would be bound to exercise the negative powers which you possess by preventing any step marked by injustice to wards Her Majesty's subjects of the Native race. You would be bound to judge for yourself as to the justice and propriety of employing, and the best mode of employing, Her Majesty's forces." 1513
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE : It was remitted by the Imperial Government on the recommendation of Sir George Grey.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would beg to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government, Whether he has any information as to the terms demanded by Prussia from Denmark as a condition of peace? A statement had appeared in the public journals to the effect that, among other things, Denmark was to pay £11,000,000 and also to give up the whole of her fleet. He wished to know whether this country had sunk to such a degree of pusillanimity as to look with apathy and indifference on the surrender of the Danish fleet to Germany? The noble Lord in his speech the other night on the slave trade seemed as strong on the doctrine of intervention as ever, and no doubt he would repeat his Eastern policy whenever he had an opportunity; but he wished to know whether he had abdicated his doctrine of interference nearer at home, so far as to look unmoved on such a demand as this?
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  hoped that during the recess some further progress would be made by the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, in bringing about a satisfactory solution of the vexed question relative to the fees of Parliamentary counsel.
 Mr. CARDWELL : Sir, some des-
 1470 "Lieutenant Colonel Booth and Commander Hay, who led into the work, fell mortally wounded. Captain Hamilton was shot dead on the top of the parapet while in the act of encouraging his men to advance, and in a few minutes almost every officer of the column was either killed or wounded. Up to this moment the men, so nobly led by their officers, fought gallantly, and appeared to have carried the position, when they suddenly gave way and fell back from the work to the nearest cover. This repulse I am at a loss to explain otherwise than by attributing it to the confusion created among the men by the intricate nature of the interior defences and the sudden fall of so many of their officers. … The Natives, availing themselves of the darkness of the night, abandoned the work, leaving some of their killed and wounded behind. On taking possession of the work in the morning Lieutenant Colonel Booth and some men were found still living, and, to the credit of the Natives, had not been maltreated; nor had any of the bodies of the killed been mutilated. I enclose a list of our own casualties. I deeply deplore the loss of the many brave and valuable officers who fell in the noble discharge of their duty on this occasion. The 43rd Regiment and the service have sustained a serious loss in the death of Lieutenant Colonel. Booth, which took place on the night after the attack. I have already mentioned the brilliant example shown by this officer in the assault; and when I met him on the following morning, as he was being carried out of the work, his first words were an expression of regret that be found it impossible to carry out my orders. The heroism and devotion of Captain Hamilton and Commander Hay reflect the highest honour on the naval service." 1471
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he had already stated that care would be taken that the New Zealand Government should be pledged to all the engagements upon which the loan was given. He would undertake to consider whether he could frame a clause making the consent of the Commissioners of the Treasury dependent on the acceptance of the Assembly of New Zealand of the terms on which it was proposed that the loan should be advanced.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that the territorial revenue, like the ordinary revenue, was at the disposition of the General Assembly, and ill order that there might be no mistake upon the point he had been careful to insert words in the Bill involving both of those sources of revenue as security for the loan. An hon. Friend of his had said that the taxes were raised upon articles of trade, and were, therefore, deri-
 1497
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he was opposed
 1490 1491 1492 "I feel certain that the chiefs of Waikato having in so unprovoked a manner caused Europeans to be murdered, and having planned a wholesale destruction of some of the European settlements, it will be necessary now to take efficient steps for the permanent security of the country, and to inflict upon those chiefs a punishment of such a nature as would deter other tribes from hereafter forming and attempting to carry out designs of a similar nature, which must in their results be so disastrous to the welfare of the Native race, as well as to Her Majesty's European subjects." 1493 1494 1495 1496
 MR. CARDWELL  could only say that there was not the least desire on the part of either the Government or the Treasury to renew these advances. Such advances were only justifiable in cases of extreme emergency, and the course he now proposed would, he believed, obviate any such necessity for the future, because it would,; if accepted, enable the New Zealand Government to meet all their engagements to the Treasury, and to liquidate those advances which had already been made. As a matter of principle, no one could reprobate more than he (Mr. Cardwell) did any system by which advances of; the public money were made without the sanction of Parliament. His hon. Friend (Sir Stafford Northcote) had asked him what was the annual charge with which the colony had burdened itself in consequence of the war? That was a question which he (Mr. Cardwell) was inable to answer, as the amount had not been, made up. How the colonists would meet those expenses would be a matter for their own consideration. The House should, however, bear in mind the fact to which he had already alluded, that in the province of Auckland every person capable of bearing arms had left his industrial pursuits to fight against the Natives. The other provinces would naturally desire that, in stead of the whole expenses of a war local in its character being paid from the annual income, those expenses should be met by some other means less likely to press so heavily upon their resources. What perhaps was of more consequence was this that if the war came soon to a close, is they hoped it would, a very large expediture would be thrown upon the colony, not only for the war, but also for roads and other material improvements. At all events the loan which the House had to do with was inferior in amount to the sum which the colonists would have expended upon
 1498 1499 1500 1501
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, he did not understand how it was that room enough could not be found for all the pictures at Trafalgar Square. He contended that if the Royal Academy were removed from Trafalgar Square there would be ample space there for the national collection of pictures. He did not now want to go into the question whether glass was not useful for preserving pictures; but it was a fact that the glass covering prevented some of the pictures in the national collection from being seen. The dark pictures when so covered could not be seen, and among them was that admittedly spurious work for which £630 had been paid last year.
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  wished to know whether facilities would be afforded
 1532
 MR.CAVENDISH BENTINCK  wished to know whether it were ultimately the intention of the Government to bring all the collections together, and place the Portrait Gallery under the same roof as the other pictures when the building in Trafalgar Square should be enlarged? He thought that the purchase of pictures should be conducted upon the responsibility of one person, and that more attention should be paid to the authenticity of the specimens, even though their cost might be slightly enhanced.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he had seen it stated in the New Zealand papers that Sir George Grey, when passing through the disturbed districts, had declared that wherever he had gone he had found continually increasing proofs that the revolt of the Maories had been instigated and had been generally sustained by the influence of the Roman Catholic priesthood. The Roman Catholic population in Canada and other colonies were exuberant in outward demonstrations of loyalty, but whenever a real opportunity presented itself they were the first to organize a system of revolt against our dominion. If it was difficult for him to make his feelings intelligible to the House, how much more beyond him was it to unravel that web of sophistry which had employed, and which still employed, the greatest intellects of the world in weaving around our Empire? He had sought to direct attention to this matter on three different occasions, but the right hon. Gentleman had told him that it was too late to enter into that discussion, treating him, of course, as a monomaniac. That Power, in consideration of its influence in the divisions of that House, received at the present moment not less than about a million sterling annually in support of its institutions, [ Cries of "Question!"
 MR. WHALLEY  thought that no satisfactory result would be arrived at until competition ceased to be recognized as a ground of opposition to new schemes. If it were refused to be recognized, a very proper limit would be imposed on the power of the great companies. He thought that the appointment of four Referees instead of three would jeopardize the character of the Private Bill legislation, by placing more power than was necessary in the hands of the Chairman. He had no wish to accuse the Chairman of Private Bill Committees of partiality; but it was notorious that one Chairman took a view upon a particular question entirely opposed to that taken by another, and it was a matter of constant difficulty for the promoters of Railway Bills to know upon what rule or principle they were to be treated. The question of competition, as a ground of opposition, ought to be settled at once, and
 1461
 MR. PAULL  wished to know whether the Referees would be Members of that House, and whether, in addition to the Chairman of Ways and Means, they would be paid?
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the Colonial Secretary before he rose to continue the debate. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer said that we were placed in a thoroughly false position in Now Zealand; and he (Mr. Whiteside) wished to know whether the present war was carried on as the noble Lord at the head of the Govern
 1480 "Since it is probable that the Natives of those districts, unlike those in the Cape Colony and Kaffraria, will soon become an unimportant minority of the inhabitants." 1481 "My responsible advisers have requested me to transmit for your Grace's information the enclosed copy of a memorandum which they have drawn up in relation to your despatch." "With respect to his Grace's apprehension that the Natives who still remain friendly may view confiscation not as a punishment for rebellion but as a flagrant proof of the determination of the colonists to possess themselves of land at all risks, Ministers have to state that every means have been taken to persuade the Maories in general that the property and persons of innocent tribes will be strictly respected, and that the measure of punishment will be apportioned to the degree of guilt."
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he believed that fortifications in Cork harbour had been included in the schedule of the Bill of last year. He wanted to know when the Report of the Dockyard Committee on the subject would be laid upon the table?
 MR. LOCKE  thought we were in the unfortunate position of having a choice of too many sites. The First Commissioner of Works said rightly that there was not sufficient room at Trafalgar Square for the exhibition of all the national pictures. He agreed that the expenditure of £17,000 which took place two years ago was thrown away, because it had destroyed a decent entrance to what was the most miserable building that could be devised. There were, no doubt, difficulties in deciding what course to take; but the Government had been distinctly told by the House that they must not remove the National Gallery from Trafalgar Square. They had a large space which they had purchased at Kensington. Nobody wanted to go to a National Gallery every day—he must be a miserable wretch who would go to a National Gallery every day; but when one did go to a National Gallery one liked to see something worthy of the name. There was space enough at Kensington to build everything that was required. It was impossible to say whether in a few years
 1526
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he wished to place the responsibility in respect to this matter upon the shoulders which he thought ought to bear it — namely, those of the
 1482 1483
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  said, he had felt much difficulty in catching the drift of the speech of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Adderley), and could not tell whether he thought that this country or the colony should bear the expenses of the war, till he came to the practical conclusion that he would support the Government project, and bore testimony to the solvency and good faith of the colony. He (Sir John Trelawny), however, held in his hand a document, being a Parliamentary Return setting forth a Correspondence between the Colonial Minister of the day (Sir E. Bulwer Lytton) and the Governor of the colony (Governor Gore Browne), with reference to certain evidence of Mr. H. Sewell, Colonial Treasurer, delivered before a Parliamentary Committee on a then proposed guarantee (£500,000) loan, about 1857, and proving that in an important particular the Committee of the British Parliament which sat thereon was misled. Sir John Trelawny quoted a letter, published with the same
 1506 1507
 MR. WALTER  said, it appeared to him
 1466
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, no Members of the House would be paid. The Referees would not be Members of the House, and should be paid some salary; but it was quite understood that the scheme would be tried merely as an experiment, and if it failed no party could have any claim to compensation.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he had moved the Resolutions only with the view which the hon. and learned Member had expressed. The appointment of the Referees would be in the hands of the Speaker, and the tribunal would, no doubt, consist of the Chairman of Ways and Means, who would preside, assisted by the Speaker's Counsel, an engineer, and two other individuals.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  then moved that it be an Instruction to the Committee to consider whether
 "It is expedient that Referees should be constituted under the authority of this House for the more speedy and economical decision of certain questions of fact commonly arising in the proceedings upon Private Bills."
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN , in moving the appointment of a Select Committee to revise the Standing Orders, said, that what he desired was the appointment of a Committee of experienced Members to consider certain alterations in the Standing Orders, which he believed would tend to the better conduct of the private business of the House, diminish expense, and shorten the time which was to be devoted by Members to attendance on Private Bill Committees. If it should succeed in the latter object only, it would confer an immense boon on the Members of the House. The private business of the House had been continuously increasing of late years, until a difficulty was experienced in finding a sufficiency of Members to attend to it. During the present Session they had had to consider and decide on no less than 505 Private Bills. All these were not opposed; but in consequence of their mere number it was impossible to go through them properly, so as to enable the other House of Parliament to consider them equally with the House of Commons. Arrangements had been adopted by which the vast number of Railway Bills introduced into the House every Session were classified into groups, and the Committees were appointed by the Committee of Selection, and were presided over by an experienced Member taken from the "Chairmen's Panel." Few duties were more creditable to Members of that House than those which were discharged by those Gentlemen who devoted themselves to the business of presiding over Railway Committees; but the disadvantage attending the present system was that it was necessary to place a great number of Bills before the same tribunal, and thus many parties promoting Private Bills had to wait from an early period of the Session until the time came for their case to be considered; and then to find that they could not be passed through this House until it was so late as to preclude the possibility of their going before the House of Lords. Two cases which occurred during the present Session afforded a strong illustration of the inconvenience which might sometimes result from this arrangement, for two Railway Bills (the Manchester, Sheffield, and Lincolnshire Railway Company Bill, and the Cannock Chase and Wolverhampton Rail-
 1454 "1. The Chairman of Ways and Means and three persons to be appointed by the Speaker, and to hold office during his pleasure, of whom one shall be an engineer officer, to be Referees on Private Bills; two of the Referees to be a quorum. The salaries of the three appointed Referees to be fixed by the Fee Fund Commissioners of the House. 2. The Referees to hold sittings in some Committee-room of the House; all their proceedings and practice to be regulated and subject to be altered by the Chairman of Ways and Means; such regulations to be laid on the table of the House. 3. The Referees to inquire into, take evidence, and hear counsel and agents upon such matters of fact requiring investigation as are from time to time referred to them. When inquiry completed, the Referees to make a Report to the House, such Report to stand referred to the Select Committee on the Bill; and no further evidence to be taken upon the facts reported on, unless the House shall otherwise order." 1455 "First, in Bills authorizing the construction of works, the engineering character of the undertaking, the efficiency and fitness of the works for the proposed objects, and the sufficiency of the estimate; second, in Bills for authorizing new lines of railway, the nature and amount of the traffic proposed to be accommodated; third, in Waterworks Bills, the nature of the proposed source of supply, the quality of the water, the sufficiency of the supply for the wants of the district, and the provisions as to reservoirs; fourth, in Gas Bills, the quality of the gas, the cost of production, and the tests of purity and illuminating power, &c. 4. In addition to the matters regularly referred to the Referees upon each class of Bills, according to Standing Order, the Committee on any Bill to be empowered, with the approval of the Chairman of Ways and Means, to refer any question of fact arising in the course of their inquiry, which they may think suitable, to the Referees for their opinion, in the shape of a case stated in writing, and signed by the Chairman of the Committee. The Referees, after inquiry, to certify their conclusion to the Committee. 5. All questions of  locus standi locus standi, locus standi, locus standi 1456
 MR. DILLWYN  understood the Chief Commissioner of Works to say that he thought the National Gallery might be sufficient for the pictures of the Ancient Masters, but that the modern pictures should remain at South Kensington. Now, he would urge upon the Government the propriety of keeping the modern as well as the ancient pictures in Trafalgar Square, excepting, of course, those which had been
 1529
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, it appeared to him that this was nothing more than an adjourned debate upon a question which was settled four weeks ago; and with all his knowledge of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cowper) and his Colleagues he really was surprised at the course which they had taken that night. It was vain to say that there were many different objects in-fended by those who formed the majority on the former occasion; for the simple fact was, that if there were any combination at all it was to retain the National Gallery in Trafalgar Square. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cowper) was unable to answer a plain question, but kept "harping on my daughter"—that was to say, he went back to his favourite scheme—and the Chancellor of the Exchequer endeavoured to explain away the decisions of the House. Now, although this House had last Friday supported the Government, though he denied that they had passed a vote of confidence, this was no reason why the Government, with their heads a little turned by their success, should now explain away the decision come to by the House upon the National Gallery. He thought the House before it separated ought to come to some understanding on this point, and that the Government should state distinctly whether they meant to carry out the decision. They ought not to allow either the Chancellor of the Exchequer or the First Commissioner of Works by a long rigmarole to explain away the decision of the House. The Committee, on the contrary,
 1531
 MR.COBDEN : Sir, I feel thankful to the hon. Member for Taunton (Mr. Arthur Mills) for having brought this matter under the consideration of the House. Peculiar difficulties always attend the discussion of any principle involving our relations with our colonies. If it is brought forward as an abstract Motion, the Mover, as in the case of the hon. Member for Tavistock (Sir John Trelawny), finds himself counted out. But if it is brought forward on a specific ground, as to-night, we are met with extraordinary unanimity of opinion on all sides of the House, that it is a most improper thing we are going to do. Every one agrees that in principle it is indefensible; but then everybody says this is an exceptional case. I shall express in two words what it is we are asked to do. We have a debtor owing us £500,000, and he says to his creditor, "My credit is not very good in the City; if you endorse my bill for £1,000,000 I will be able to discount it on your credit in the City, and I will pay you the £500,000." Now, I want to know what interest the English people, who are
 1514 1515 1516
 MR. RICHARD HODGSON  said, be understood that it would be the duty of the Committee to make a Report upon the various questions which were submitted to them, and in that respect the scheme would work well. There was, however, one point upon which he entertained considerable doubt—namely, whether counsel ought to be hoard before the Referees. If counsel were to be heard before the Referees it would institute a kind of double inquiry, as counsel would almost in every case endeavour to resuscitate before the Committee the arguments which they had raised before the Referees. He also doubted the propriety of having four Referees instead of three. Some time ago certain Resolutions in reference to Railway Bills were passed by the House, and referred to the Committee of which the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn (Lord Stanley) was chairman. They related to traffic arrangements of a very important nature; some of them gave general powers for amalgamation, and others related to the power of Railway Companies to set up steamboats. Up to the present time those clauses bad not been considered, and he hoped that the Committee about to be appointed would take them into consideration.
 MR. HANBURY  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether Captain De Burgh should be allowed to command the Uxbridge Yeomanry Cavalry when charges which are preferred against him are still unsettled; and whether the Order for the annual assembling of the Yeomanry can be countermanded until the matters pending be cleared up?
 MR. AYTOUN  said, he should certainly support the Amendment. There were only two grounds on which a loan, or, indeed, any other species of aid, to a colony could be justified. One was that the mother country had injured it, or had retarded its
 1485 1486
 MR. SOTHERON ESTCOURT  rose to request that he might not be placed upon the Committee. It appeared to him most desirable that all opinions upon the subject should be represented upon the Committee, and as he, having acted for some years with the hon. and gallant Chairman of the Standing Orders Committee (Colonel Wilson Patten), could not, perhaps, avoid look-
 1467
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he thought
 1459 1460
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he believed in some parts of the Continent there were such means of communication, but he was not at all sure that the construction of our railways or of the carriages running upon them would admit of the same arrangements.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, in reply, that it appeared, in replying to the Question of his hon. Friend on a former evening, he had been understood as refusing to entertain the suggestion. He certainly had not intended to convey that impression. If the hon. Member wished him to promise that next Session he would introduce a Bill to compel Railway Companies to adopt some means of communication between guards and passengers, he must say that he could not at present see his way sufficiently clear to enable him to give such a promise. He admitted that it was not a pleasant thing to be shut up in a railway carriage without the means of summoning aid if it were needed. The recent outrages and murder clearly showed that the obtaining of this communication was much to be desired, but the difficulties of the question were so considerable that, although he was quite willing to consider any proposal which might be made, he must decline to give any promise to introduce a Bill on the subject.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would not interfere with that which was the proper duty of his two right hon. Friends who were connected with the Colonial Department, but would confine himself to that portion of his hon. Friend's speech which related to the financial part of the question. The matter had,
 1476 1477 primâ facie 1478 1479
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Baronet the Member for Westminster (Sir John Shelley) distinctly asserted that the House had determined to do something; but the House had not determined to do anything. The House had rejected the plan of the Government, but they had not adopted any plan in its place. Hon. Gentlemen
 1527
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had admitted that the separation of the Portrait and National Galleries was only to be regarded as temporary, but no plan was at present before the Government on that point. He did not concur with the hon. Member that it was advisable to confine the responsibility of purchasing pictures to one person. It would be impossible to give any pledge that the whole of the pictures should be placed in one building until some definite plan should be settled.
 MR. ANGERSTEIN  inquired what the intentions of the Government were with regard to the Central Arsenal?
 MR. MASSEY  said, that Committees being practically intrusted with interests of great magnitude, it seemed almost absurd that they should not have the power of deciding questions of subordi-
 1465
 MR. MONSELL  said, he was unable to I see what argument the right hon. Gentleman could found upon that. No one was inclined to believe that it was ever intended by the Home Government to massacre the Natives; but we had given to the Colonial Government for the first time entire jurisdiction over the Natives, and had facilitated arrangements for the future maintenance of troops in New Zealand. Instead of endeavouring to make it easy for the colonists to get money into their hands for the purpose of abusing these privileges, we ought to
 1509
 MR. MONSELL  said, he did not see why a guarantee should be given if, as was stated by the hon. Member for Stockport (Mr. J. B. Smith), colonies where the security was known to be good could readily borrow money at the rate of 6 per cent. To show the progress which New Zealand had made of late years, he might mention that the Customs revenue, which in 1860–1 was £205,000, had increased in 1861–2 to £339,000, and in 1862–3 to £489,000, being an increase of 44 per cent. The population and shipping had also increased in a remarkable manner. How, then, was it necessary for the Government to give such a guarantee as this? It was perfectly clear that the colony could get the money by paying a little higher rate of interest, and putting themselves to some inconvenience. He thought it ought not to be made too easy for the colonists to carry on a war against the Natives. The right hon. Member for Staffordshire (Mr. Adderley) had spoken in terms of laudation of the conduct of the colonists towards the Natives; but if the right hon. Gentleman would look at the Report of Sir William Martin, he would find that, in the opinion of those persons who were well informed upon the subject, there had been a constant exercise of acts of the grossest injustice on the part of colonists towards the Natives in regard to the possession of land. They were constantly endeavouring to evade the engagements they had entered into in reference to land.
 COLONEL W. STUART  should like to hear from the Secretary for the Colonies whether he proposed to introduce into the Bill at a future stage a clause carrying out the terms of the despatch which had been laid on the table? Upon the answer to
 1522
 COLONEL SYKES  said, they were now treated to a Parliamentary representation of the drama of  A New Way to Pay Old Debts. 1508 vi et armis.
 COLONEL SYKES  objected to proceeding at so late an hour (twenty minutes past twelve) with a Resolution which would involve an expenditure of £650,000.
 COLONEL SYKES  hoped the House would get further opportunities of discussing this matter.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  pointed out the difficulty that would arise from having to divide subjects into two parts—one, that of matters of fact for the decision of the Referees; the other, the points which were to be left for the decision of the Committee. If the report of the Referees were final, how was it to be supposed that it would be better than that of the Committee itself? But if, on the other hand, the report was not final, be thought the evil would be increased instead of diminished. If the Referees did not possess an independent and final jurisdiction, the scheme would only lead to a prolongation of the inquiries and additional expense.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he was very much disposed to agree with the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck) as to the perplexing position of this country with respect to this colony; and he felt convinced that the only chance of extrication was the establishment of something like a dictatorship in the colony. Unless something were done to provide a Government which could conciliate the feeling of the two races they could not establish peace and order, and in the result the aborigines would be destroyed. The guilt of breaking treaties must be shared, he believed, by both parties. But, turning to the immediate question before the House, he said that if they guaranteed loans like this they would be sure to have chronic wars. He hoped, therefore, that the House would look closely into this question. The speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer that night had disclosed some curious views as to the obligation to guarantee this loan. The colony was said to be in our debt, and to owe us £500,000; but who contracted that debt, and was the Parliament of England any party to it? He desired to have some explanation on that point. The papers on the table showed that there had
 1484
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  hoped at this period of the Session the Government would meet with some indulgence, and be allowed to proceed with the business in hand.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  trusted that some of the money would be applied to the completion of the Spithead forts. Recent experiments had proved how necessary such works were for the defence of the country.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, the works to which he had referred were not at Stourbridge, but on the east side, and he trusted they would not be lost sight of.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he had had an opportunity of hearing the opinions of gentlemen connected with I some of the great Railway Companies, who; furnished, perhaps, the largest amount of work for Private Bill Committees, and could state that the proposals of the hon. and gallant Member were received by them with every desire to give them a fair trial. They felt many of the evils which had been pointed out, and had great confidence in the hon. and gallant Gentleman and those who acted with him. He believed there was among experienced persons some doubt as to whether the Referees could possibly overtake the amount of work that would be imposed on thorn. When they considered the various branches of inquiry in each case, and the discussions; of counsel, they would see that the labours; of the Referees would be very heavy and; comprehensive. It was to be hoped, how ever, that by their uniformity of practice, and by the authority which would belong to them, they might shorten the form of procedure which would be a great benefit not only to the House but to all concerned.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, the hon. Gentleman the Member for Rochdale (Mr. Cobden), and the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn (Lord Stanley), had put the question upon a different footing to that of the hon. Member for Taunton; and he was afraid that those who voted against the Bill, by the light of those speeches, would find themselves committed to a new policy, which, to a certain extent, would cut the connection between the mother country and her colonies. He
 1520
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he did not wish to detain the House, but there was one point which had not been mentioned in the debate which weighed with him extremely in giving his vote for the Amendment. Up to 1852 New Zealand was a Crown colony. At that time an Order in Council was in force which prohibited the importation of arms and ammunition into the colony, because it was wisely foreseen that if permission were given to import arms we should be arming the Natives against ourselves. One of the very first acts of the Legislative Assembly the year after New Zealand became a free colony was to
 1517
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  thought it was a most unfortunate circumstance that, let the House do what it would, it could not persuade the noble Lord nor the right hon. Gentleman that it was determined the Notional Gallery should remain at Trafalgar Square. Surely, it was the duty of the First Commissioner of Works to bow to the decision of the House. The right hon. Gentleman had a fancy scheme of his own, but he must give it up. A question had been asked to which no answer had been given. Was the right hon. Gentleman prepared to consider the best mode of getting rid of the Royal Academy, and of devoting the whole space at Trafalgar Square to the exhibition of the national pictures.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, there need be no doubt what the decision of the House meant. It meant that the national pictures should remain in Trafalgar Square, and it was the duty of the Government to carry out this decision.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, the House
 1457
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, he desired to call attention to an evil which had very greatly increased of late years—the number of witnesses who were called by counsel before the Committees to speak to the same facts. There seemed to be no limit to this practice. It was in vain that the Chairman told counsel that the Committee had had sufficent evidence on the point before them. The regular reply was, "Oh! you must not take the conduct of our case out of our hands. We do not know what objections the other side may make, and it is necessary for you to listen to all the evidence we deem it necessary to adduce." The consequence was that the proceedings of Committees were spun out to a great length by superfluous testimony, in order to suit the convenience of counsel, or perhaps of the parties in the case, who desired to have the opportunity of making private arrangements outside
 1458
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  asked whether there was any security against the renewal of such a course?
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he felt great difficulty in deciding how he should vote on this question, and rose rather to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Colonies a few questions on points which hitherto had not been adequately explained, than to make a speech for or against the Bill. The arguments of the Chancellor of the Exchequer—which were not entirely satisfactory — seemed to divide themselves mainly under four heads. First, he told the House that it was desirable to offer this guarantee, because in that way we [should secure the repayment of a debt which might otherwise turn out to be a bad one; secondly, that this was an engagement which it would not be dangerous to undertake, because the finances of the colony were in a prosperous condition; thirdly, that there was a claim on the part of the colony, because it was paying a considerable portion of the expenses of the war out of its own means; and fourthly, that a good arrangement would thus be secured for the future as to the principles on which assistance was to be given to the colony. Upon all these points he wanted some further information than had been afforded in the cursory observations of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. First, as to the debt of £500,000, he would remind the House of the significant fact that, just twelve months ago, it was proposed on the part of the colony that the British Parliament should guarantee a loan of half a million. It was part of that contemplated arrangement that a compromise should be come to with respect to certain old debts, and some more recent claims on the part of the Imperial Government, and that those claims should be met out of the half million loan. Mr. Reader Wood, the representative of the New Zealand Government, did not consider himself at liberty to make the compromise that was suggested to him, and consequently no advance of money was made. Subsequently the colony, through its agent, agreed to enter into that compromise; but in the meantime circumstances had changed, the debt of the colony had run up from £200,000 to £500,000, and the loan for which a guarantee was asked had also grown from half a million to a million — the colony, indeed, being willing to accept a guarantee of three millions if it could be
 1487 1488 "The desire to know whether, when the necessity of providing further funds became apparent, the Assembly was summoned for the earliest practicable day; whether, when the previous Assembly was prorogued, there was reason to believe that an emergency of this kind to a greater or smaller extent would arise; and if this was the case, whether provision was made to meet it such as to reasonable persons would at the time have appeared sufficient; and if it was not made, what means were taken by you to impress on the Assembly the necessity of making it?" "The cost to New Zealand of the war already reaches a round sum of £500,000. This sum
 1489
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  wished to remind the House, that while they considered the rights of one class of persons they ought not to overlook the injustice to which the other class was exposed. No doubt these Railway Companies very often inflicted great hardship and injustice on individuals; but, on the other band, individuals frequently inflicted great hardships and injustice on Railway Companies, because it was within the experience of all who served on Railway Committees, that very often a line was desired by a whole district, the great bulk of the landowners were favourable to the scheme proposed, but there might be some one landowner, perhaps occupying only two or three acres, who insisted on going into the whole question, and canvassing every fact connected with the engineering of the line forty or fifty miles distant. Now, if it was fair to give costs in one case, it would be but fair on the other hand that Railway Companies should be protected against such an abuse as that. A case had occurred not long ago, where arrangements being made with every landowner on the line except one small proprietor, he demanded nearly £100,000 for his piece of land, and the Committee having come to a decision adverse to his claim he offered to take £6,000, instead of £100,000, and ultimately the company were obliged to pay him a considerable sum of money in order to save the expense of his threatened renewal of a similar question in another place.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD : Has the Government no information that an armistice has been concluded?
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  inquired whether the money now asked for was to complete works already begun or for the commencement of new works?
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  thought the speech of the right hon. Gentleman was unsatisfactory. No answer had been given to the question put, and the House was entitled to know how the Royal Academy were to be provided for. The building in Trafalgar Square had been appropriated to the national pictures, but it had never been applied entirely to that purpose. No sooner had the site for the National Gallery been fixed upon than the Royal Academy succeeded in getting removed there; so that one half the building intended for the national collection had been given up to other purposes. Now, the right hon. Gentleman would do nothing, and would not say anything, because the House would not agree to his grand scheme. But the right hon. Gentleman should have thought of the matter two years ago before he spent £17,000 upon a half of the building to make it fit for the reception of the national pictures. Now it appeared that that money had been entirely wasted.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  would remind the right hon. Baronet that the reason why the Royal Academy was lodged in the present building was because the apartments which they formerly occupied in Somerset House had been required for the public service, and a portion of the National Gallery was not required then for the national pictures. But he denied that the sum expended upon improving the building had been thrown away. On the contrary, it had afforded the means of displaying a larger number of pictures. When the right hon. Baronet told the Government that they should two years ago have been prepared with plans for enlarging the National Gallery, and for providing elsewhere for the Royal Academy, he must surely have forgotten that a few weeks since the House came to a decision adverse to the arrangement proposed by the Government. What they had thought best was to provide for the National Gallery at the back of Burlington House, and to leave the Royal Academy
 1525
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : We have reason to believe that a proposal has been made, but I have not heard of any conclusion.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : My right hon. Friend the Secretary for the Colonies has already stated that we would exact from the Government of New Zealand precisely those engagements which the hon. and gallant Gentleman intimates would be satisfactory to him and to others. I quite agree with him that many of the doctrines laid down in this debate by those who oppose the Bill go really to the extent of saying that we ought to cast our colonies adrift. I am not, however, prepared to concur in that conclusion. This colony of New Zealand was founded in the expectation that the emigrants who went there would receive that protection which the mother country affords to her colonies. It is a very thriving colony; it is increasing rapidly in wealth and in everything that constitutes a prosperous society. The argument which has been advanced to-night by the opponents of the Bill really is, that we ought to deprive that society of the assistance of the Crown in bringing this unhappy war to a conclusion. Now, I lament the existence of the war as much as any body; but it is not, I maintain, a war arising, as has been stated, from the seizure of the lands of the Native population. It has been explained by my right hon. Friend that it had its origin in the murder of an officer and men, which is a thing totally unconnected with the question of land, and that no land has been taken from the people of New Zealand except by purchase, on the authority and with the consent of those to whom it belonged. The
 1521
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The only answer I can give is, that we have no information as to the point to which the hon. Gentleman has alluded. If negotiations are going on, I doubt whether such a monstrous demand can have been made.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Of course we could take no steps until we could procure some plan showing where the Royal Academy could go, and how they were to house themselves. [An hon. Member: That is their business.] We did not at all presume to controvert the intentions of the House that the National Gallery should remain in Trafalgar Square; and when next Session we shall propose some plan which will effect that object, it will be our duty to see that the collection can be properly lodged in Trafalgar Square, and I have no doubt that the House will not begrudge the necessary expense. It is quite certain that increased accommodation will be required, and we shall endeavour to attain that result in as economical a manner possible consistent with the public advantage.
 LORD NAAS  said, he objected to the clause, which authorized the local authorities to set aside a place in a market or fair in which to place diseased animals when brought for sale. The animal might be only suspected by an ignorant policeman, but the consequence to the proprietor would
 1568
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, the clause before it was adopted by the Committee was carefully considered. The penalty merely applied to those persons who knowingly sent diseased cattle to market, and he considered it a very useful provision. The operation of the clause would be confined to markets.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  could not see the force of the objections urged against the clause, because it offered no obstacle to a man's taking diseased animals into the market. It only enacted that a certain place should be set aside for diseased animals, and a person whose animals were to his knowledge diseased, would incur a penalty if he did not make use of the place so provided.
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, that it was useless to continue the Bill in face of the determined opposition which had been exhibited against it by the Committee. At that period of the Session he should not have attempted to carry the measure had he not understood that the Opposition of the Irish Members was confined mainly to one clause referring to Inspectors, which he himself disapproved. He should, therefore, concur in the Motion for reporting Progress.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, he would be quite content to pursue the plan recommended by the hon. Member for Northamptonshire if the opponents of the Bill would have been satisfied with the results of a round or two, but their opposition was so determined that it was useless to proceed with the Bill.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  replied, that the despatch in question had been sent out to India, and communicated by a General Order of the Army there. No list of officers who had been seconded had yet been received; but a list had been received of the officers of the artillery and engineers who were to be removed from these corps to staff appointments, and the promotions in succession to them had been already recommended to Her Majesty.
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whereas, when substantive and corresponding brevet rank come together in a Regiment, the former invariably takes preference, what steps will be taken to insure a senior officer holding only brevet rank against being superseded in a Regiment by a junior holding corresponding substantive rank? Will brevet Lieutenant Colonels of five years' service in that rank and thirty-one years' service in all be entitled to the brevet rank of Colonel under the latter part of Clause 69 of Despatch No. 194, June 19, 1864? And will an officer who had served eleven years (or twelve, as the case might be) in the rank of brevet Lieutenant Colonel, obtained in accordance with the above clause, or in such brevet and substantive rank combined, be eligible to take his turn in the List of Officers nominated for Colonels' Allowances?
 MR. PEEL,  in reply, said, in the recommendation made last year by the Post Office to the Treasury to increase the rate of postage on letters sent from this country to Australia, the object in view was of a double character — partly to reduce the amount annually granted by Parliament to meet the excess in the cost of the service over the receipts for postage, and partly to provide the means of defraying the expenses of establishing a second monthly communication with Australia. There was a very general desire to establish a second monthly communication with Australia; at the same time there was a very strong objection on the part of the Government to ask that House to provide additional subsidies for the expenses of the Australian service. The Government did not proceed with their plan for establishing a fortnightly communication with Australia in consequence of having understood that it was intended to establish a communication with Australia by way of Panama independently of the Home Government. It appeared, however, that that was no longer the case, and therefore they were free to revert to the old plan. Under those circumstances he thought the course indicated by the question was a very reasonable one for the Government to pursue. The Government reserved the right of regulating the rate of postage if they thought proper; but, at the same time, they were desirous of taking part in any measure for increasing the frequency of communication with Australia. It was quite possible that the Australians, though they might object to an increased postage, might be willing to acquiesce in that increase provided it were accompanied with additional communication with this country. Under these circumstances the Government was willing to postpone the increase in the postage until time had been given to communicate with Australia.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, it was of very little consequence whether Count Sponneck understood that the fortifications were to be razed or not. Count Sponneck could scarcely feel surprise at such a course being taken, because in the blue-book a conversation was reported between the Chancellor of the Exchequer and M. Tricoupi, in which the right hon. Gentleman distinctly expressed himself in favour of the neutralization of the Islands. We could not have handed over these Islands to Greece without neutralizing them or destroying their fortifications. Those fortifications would have served as a  place d'armes 1581
 MR. KINGLAKE  said, he thought the view his hon. Friend the Under Secretary had taken of the case was a mistaken one. He had spoken of these officers as the mere servants of the Ionian State. That was not quite a fair light in which to regard them. In order to test whether they had or had not a moral claim for compensation for the loss of their offices, they should see in the first place who appointed them, and, next, who terminated that state of things under which they were entitled to their offices. When they came to consider who it was that drew these men from their former career of life, they found it was the Colonial Government in England. And when they inquired how it came to pass that their offices, on the continuance of which they had a fair right to rely, had been brought to a conclusion, they found again that the Colonial Office was a prominent party in the transaction. If, then, the circumstances should ever arise in which the question had to be considered, he hoped the British Government would have no difficulty in seeing that the claim of these gentlemen was one which in fairness and generosity could not be resisted.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the hon. Gentleman had done good service in taking up this Question, and the object he had in view was worthy of the
 1598
 MR. PEEL  said, that the Royal Academy of Music had existed for thirty or forty years, during which time it had been a self-supporting institution. Its object more particularly was to afford to persons desirous of entering the musical profession an education in this country as good as on the Continent. The expenses of the Academy had been on the average of the last few years £500 a year greater than the receipts from the pupils. The deficiency was made up by voluntary subscriptions and by money derived from a sum which had been invested. That sum of money amounted originally to £10,000, but was now reduced to £4,000, so that it was obvious that if the sum went on diminishing in that way the society would have no alternative but to close their doors. Under these circumstances the society had addressed a memorial to the Chancellor of the Exchequer requesting that Parliament might be recommended to grant to the Academy a small sum, and that memorial was signed by a very long list of names, including almost every name of eminence in the musical profession. The Academy undertook to instruct teachers, and some of the most eminent professors had stated their opinion that it was worthy of support. The Vote was not proposed with the view
 1601
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he did not know whether it was competent to him to move a similar grant for Dublin, but if it were, he would do so, and an hon. Friend was equally ready to propose a Vote for Edinburgh.
 COLONEL DUNNE  explained, that he did not desire to increase expenditure, but what he complained of was, that while Ireland had too much of the taxation, she had too little of the expenditure.
 MR. PEEL  said, the increase in the Vote of £17,000 was purely nominal with the exception of a sum of £4,600, which arose from a small addition to the Customs establishment in the course of last year.
 MR. WHITE  said, he could himself testify to the absolute inaccuracy of the Board of Trade Returns, especially in respect to non-dutiable articles. Some merchants were in the habit of declaring goods at double their true value, and very often gross exaggeration took place. At the same time, as the merchants had no more interest in misrepresenting in one year than they had in another, these Returns afforded a rough means of estimating the progress of our trade.
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  said, the adoption of the Amendment would be fatal to the object of the Bill.
 MR. O'NEILL  said, in the absence of his hon. Friend (Mr. Torrens), he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, What steps have been taken to carry out the orders contained in the Secretary of State's (for India) despatch, No. 61, dated the 29th of February last, to have seconded, or made supernumerary Officers of the Indian Artillery employed in miscellaneous staff appointments, and which despatch is reported in paragraph 14 to have received the general concurrence of the Secretary of State for War, and of His Royal Highness the Field Marshal Commanding in Chief?
 VISCOUNT ENFIELD  said, he would beg to ask the right hon. Member for Petersfield (as a Commissioner of the Metropolitan Roads north of the Thames), Whether he can state the number of turnpike gates and side bars that have been recently removed, the number of new gates and bars erected in their place, and upon what principle the distribution of these gates and side bars has been allotted to the different metropolitan parishes?
 LORD ALFRED CHURCHILL  said, under these circumstances he would not proceed with his Motion on the subject.
 LORD ALFRED CHURCHILL  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether he would object to postpone the execution of the recent increase in the rate of postage to Australia until the colonies shall have been communicated with as to their desire to have a bi-monthly mail in conjunction with the increase of the postage rate?
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he differed from the hon. Gentleman, and believed he expressed the opinion of every seafaring man in the country, when he characterized the remarks just made with respect to Admiral Fitzroy's signals as very unfair. Admiral Fitzroy never professed to prophesy exactly what the wind was going to be, but said that the system was still in its infancy, and required great development. It was, however, making progress, for every European Government was adopting it and making a comparison of observations. In reply to the Question, whether naval officers were to be governed by the weather signals, he could only say that he thought an officer would be blamed if he went to sea in spite of a bad weather signal, and caused damages to occur to his ship, unless he was under some stringent orders on no account to delay his voyage. All along the coast, the seafaring population paid great attention to the signals. His own constituents, who were upon the sea coast, had repeatedly expressed their satisfaction with the system; and he thought it would be extremely unwise, now that the system was becoming developed, suddenly to stop it.
 LORD EDWARD HOWARD  suggested confining the operation of the Act to England, and excluding Ireland from its provisions.
 MR. AYRTON  said, there was no analogy between the Academy of Music and the Geographical Society, which was essentially a public society, with public objects, whereas the Academy was merely for the purpose of giving persons a superior knowledge of music, and thereby enabling them to earn larger salaries than they otherwise could command. As to the precedents which had been referred to, every act of extravagance into which the House was inveigled by the Government,
 1604
 MR. AYRTON  said, he would beg leave to withdraw the Motion. He might add that he believed the claimants had exhausted all their appeals.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he rose to call attention to the unsatisfied claims of British subjects on the Portuguese Government, and to move for papers. However much hon. Members might differ with respect to the duties of a Foreign Secretary, there could scarcely be any doubt that he could not be more usefully employed than in protecting the interests of British subjects abroad. He was, therefore, anxious to bring under the notice of the Foreign Office a case which appeared to him to be one of singular injustice. He had already called the attention of the House to the case during the last Session, and he consequently need not trouble them again at any length. In 1858 the Minister of Public Works in Portugal was extremely anx-
 1594 1595 1596
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he rose to call attention to the discrepancies which exist between the statements made by Her Majesty's Government and those of the advisers of the King of Greece respecting the conditions on which the Ionian Islands have been annexed to Greece, and also to the Convention between Her Majesty and the King of the Hellenes respecting the claims of British subjects and others, signed at London 29th March, 1864. As the Ionian Islands belonged to Greece, it was not his intention to go into the question of the policy or wisdom of their cession by England. Since the debate on the 18th of March on the subject, some papers had been laid before the House which had given rise to a certain amount of ill-feeling throughout Greece, and which also suggested questions of great importance to two classes of people in this country—those holding pensions under the Ionian Government and the Greek bondholders. There were also some remarkable discrepancies between the statements of Her Majesty's Ministers and those of the advisers of the King of Greece, which it was desirable should be cleared up. It would be recollected that on the 18th of March the hon. Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs asserted in a very decided
 1576 "He held in his hand despatches which showed that in August the matter was discussed at Copenhagen long before the King left that city, and both His Majesty and Count Sponneck were well aware of what was proposed to be done, Count Sponneck in the middle of summer not only acceding to the proposal, but suggesting that the whole of Greece should be declared a neutral State." "Count Sponneck has learnt that there was a project of treaty communicated by your Lordship to the representatives of the five Powers assembled in Conference for the affairs of Greece, which embodied two conditions relative to the annexation of the Ionian Islands, which he understood to be the upshot of communications which had taken place between Her Majesty's Government and the Cabinet of Vienna. The first condition was the neutrality of the Ionian Islands; the second, that the fortifications of Corfu should be razed. After speaking of the possible effect which the knowledge of these conditions might have in indisposing the Ionian Parliament to vote the annexation, for which reason it became of still greater importance to King George to have the vote before setting out for Greece, Count Sponneck said that if the union between the Islands and the kingdom was to be a real one (an incorporation, in short), as was apparently intended, he did not understand how the Islands could be neutralized without extending the neutrality to the rest of Greece." argumentum ad absurdum, 1577 1578
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he had only read an extract from the despatches.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he wished to know if the science of music was to be encouraged by a grant of public money where was the system to end? He thought that the less Government had to do with such institutions the better it would be for everybody. Formerly agriculture and fisheries were sustained by public money, but since the grants had ceased neither agriculture nor the fisheries had been less productive. If any Government management were to be given to any particular science, he thought it would be most usefully given to a school of cookery, as there was no country in the world in which the proverb, "Providence sends food and the devil cooks," was more verified than in England.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he had before objected to the weather table issued under the auspices of the Board of Trade, and he still entertained the belief that no reliance could be placed on those
 1599
 MR. LAYARD  said, that the case to which his hon. Friend had called attention belonged to a class of cases with which it was extremely difficult to deal, and the difficulty had been rendered still greater by speeches which had been lately made in that House. He feared that Governments like the Government of Portugal were encouraged by such speeches to resist our demands. Without pledging himself to all the facts related by his hon. Friend, he believed his sketch on the whole was correct. British capitalists had been induced to invest their money in an undertaking which might to a great extent be called a Government one. That undertaking had not succeeded to the full extent, and the Government had repudiated the guarantee which it had given. An action had been brought in the Portuguese Courts, but, according to the opinion not only of our own agent but of the highest legal authorities in Portugal, there had been a gross maladministration of justice in the matter, and the English shareholders had not received fair play. Her Majesty's Government had referred the case to the Law Advisers of the Crown, and they gave it as their opinion that there were still tribunals in Portugal to which recourse might be had. As long as that was the case the Government could not make official representations. His hon. Friend the Member for Sunderland (Mr. Lindsay), who was somewhat connected with the matter, had gone to Portugal during the year, the Foreign Office furnished him with every assistance, he had been supported by Sir A. Magenis, and on his return home it was hoped that the affair had been settled. But the Portuguese Government had first
 1597
 MR. LAYARD  stated that the Spanish Government had given notice that the occupation of the Chincha Islands would not interfere with the carrying out of any contracts for Guano.
 MR. LAYARD : The only statement he had made in that House was that the
 1579 1580
 MR. LAYARD  said, he regretted that his hon. Friend had thought it necessary to bring before the House the first part of his question. He had hoped that that matter had been forgotten in Greece, and that such a good understanding existed between Count Sponneck and the people of that country, that there could be no occasion for reviving it in reference to either of these irritating topics. But he could not allow the hon. Gentleman to contradict the statements which he (Mr. Layard) had made on a previous occasion without re-asserting that they were strictly true.
 MR. LAYARD,  in reply, said, that no report had been received from Lord Lyons in reference to the seizure by the Customs authorities at New York of the property alluded to by the hon. Member, but Lord Lyons had been requested to report on the subject.
 MR. LAYARD  said, the fact was perfectly true, that fees were levied on the  visa viséd viséd. visa 1575
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he thought the principle upon which such rules as that they were discussing might be justified was this—that in some things the natural demands of the people were not so vigorous as they ought to be for the interests of the nation, and those demands were particularly connected with the fine arts. In those cases the State, or those who represented it, were justified in giving public money in the interests of the people for the purpose of stimulating a demand which, when it once became natural, would be beneficial to the nation. On that ground they justified the Vote for science and art, and the result had proved the justness of the principles upon which that Vote was proposed; for notoriously the taste of the country had been stimulated, and the designs of our manufactures raised, and the consequence had been a great pecuniary benefit
 1607
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, he felt gratified to observe the attention which the hon. Gentleman had given to the working of the Act throughout the country. He had pointed out defects in the law and its administration, but it was only fair to consider what the question of local assessment had been up to that time, that it had been a system under which persons had almost been allowed to tax themselves, and under which the levying of £8,000,000 sterling had been intrusted to the most incompetent and irresponsible hands. The Act which had been substituted for a system that had been in operation for centuries had only been in existence for eighteen
 1589 seriatim 1590 1591 1592 1593
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  replied that, inasmuch as all officers promoted to brevet rank would rank according to the dates of their substantive rank, he did not see how
 1572
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that the appointments to the Irregular Forces were made, and always had been, irrespective of rank.
 MR. HUNT  said, he regretted the determination of the Government, because he believed that it was a fair stand up fight between the Irish and the English Members, and he should like to have seen it settled in a good old English way, and if the Government had proceeded with the Bill he believed that its opponents would have found themselves in a minority similar to the position in which they had been left by the last division.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, that if there was one art or science more than another which could stand by itself and did not require the aid of Government, it was music. There had been of late years an immense advance in musical taste in this country, and there was no art more popular. It was in no need of a miserable Vote of £500, and he hoped the Committee would reject it.
 MR. THOMPSON  advocated the retention of the clause.
 MR. CLAY  said, that even if the consequences foreseen by the hon. Member (Mr. Ayrton) were realized, and the provinces obtained a share in the giants made for purposes of art, he could not say that any harm would be done by the softening-influences of art being felt all over the country. The hon. Gentleman said that the object of the Academy of Music was to enable people to make money. That was not so. Its object was to improve the taste and increase the knowledge of music throughout the country; and if some persons thereby gained a higher position than they would otherwise have obtained, that was a mere accident, and was not the original aim and intention of the Academy. He remembered the time when nothing beyond hunting and drinking songs were known as English compositions, and when one opera,  Artaxerxes,
 MR. BLAKE  said, he concurred in the opinion that the Bill ought to be withdrawn.
 MR. BRADY  said, he believed that the effect of the clause would be to involve the appointment of a large number of Inspectors, and thus create a great deal of corruption. Further, the decision of the Inspector could not be taken as final; they must have a Court of Appeal. It would be utterly impossible to carry such a clause out.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he must protest against the Chancellor of the Exchequer offering to Ireland the prospect of a paltry grant in aid of music when everything in the country had gone to rack and ruin through his mismanagement. What they wanted was something practical.
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the Returns of the Resolutions and proceedings of the Union Assessment Committees, and to the necessity of assisting their operation, by the introduction of some moderating authority in the very large latitude they had taken in the application of the Act. His object was to afford the House an opportunity of judging how far it was necessary to assist the different unions. Much depended on the spirit in which the committees set to work, and whether they did so willingly and intelligently. As might be expected there were considerable differences observable in these respects. A meeting of delegates in Somerset, presided
 1584 "The feeling of the delegates in discussing the different questions propounded at the meeting was unanimous in the determination, as far as was possible, not only to secure a uniform and correct valuation of parishes in any particular union, but so to construct and carry out the Act, that it should not be only between parish and parish in a particular union, but that the same principles should be the guide in every union throughout the county; so that when the valuation is completed, not only will the assessment thus established be the assessment for Poor Law purposes, but will be a true and correct basis upon which all other county charges may be estimated." Manual 1585 1586 1587 1588
 MR. LAIRD  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether be has received any communications from Lord Lyons in reference to the Seizure (by the Customs Authorities at New York) of a large amount of property, including gold coin, bills of exchange, and other securities, belonging to the firm of Messrs. A. Wolf and Co., British merchants at Nassau, N.P?
 MR. LAIRD  said that, being connected with a seafaring population, he could state that the weather observations were considered very important, and had been the means of saving a vast amount of life and property.
 COLONEL SMYTH  said, he wished, in the absence of the right hon. Member for North Wiltshire (Mr. Sotheron Estcourt), who had a Motion on this subject on the paper, to ask the Government, Whether, after the next Assize for the West Riding had been held at Leeds, they would allow the question of the future Assize Town of the West Riding to be reheard in case sufficient evidence should be laid before them to justify a rehearing?
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he understood that his hon. Friend did not object so much to the weather drums which were intended to indicate from what quarter a gale was coming, and which might be serviceable, as to the pretences of forecasting the weather. Those weather prophecies, he thought, did not mislead the public, for the public paid no attention to them.
 1600
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he could not see the analogy which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had drawn between the grant for the Academy of Music and the grant made to the Royal Academies, the Geographical Society, and the Royal Society. With respect to the Royal Academy, they had the benefit of a public building, for the use of which they drew an immense revenue, and yet were found resisting the demands of the country. The grant for the Geographical Society was for a public purpose—the exhibition of their collection of maps. The Royal Society received a grant of £1,000 to carry on certain experiments for public purposes. The Vote could not be said to be of an analogous character, and therefore he should oppose it. It was in the continuance of a system by which they were very fast assuming a paternal character and educating the whole nation. He thought it would be much better to leave the people to their own voluntary efforts.
 MR. CORBALLY  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, If he has communicated with the British Consul in Rome with respect to the Passports of British subjects being required to be  viséd, visa.
 MR. CORBALLY  advocated the withdrawal of the clause, which he believed would cause much disturbance in Ireland.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he wished to ask the First Lord of the Treasury Whether, pending the existing suspension of political relations between the English and Brazilian Governments, Her Majesty's Ministers have appointed a Consul at Rio de Janeiro in succession to the late Consul Westwood; and, if so, whom; if it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to appoint a Consul at the port of Santos, in succession to the late Consul Huntley; and whether Her Majesty's Ministers consider themselves bound to fulfil the assurance officially conveyed to the Brazilian Government by the Earl of Aberdeen, when Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, on 2nd July, 1845, to the effect that "he would be ready to repeal the measure of 1845 on the entire cessation of the Slave Trade in Brazil?"
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : I beg to give notice that on going into Committee of Supply I shall draw the attention of the House to the state of our relations with Brazil.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  observed, that if the principle of the right hon. Gentleman were adopted, the Vote before the Committee would be only the thin end of the wedge, and before long they would be asked to vote for music schools all over the country. The Academy of Music was a private society started forty-four years ago by the Earl of Westmoreland and other noblemen and gentlemen, under the patronage of George IV., but till now not a sixpence of the public money had been voted for it. It appeared, however, that the subscriptions of the patrons had fallen off considerably; and hence the appeal which was made on behalf of a bankrupt private society. For his own part he should have been content with  Artaxerxes
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he wished to ask for an explanation of the Vote.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, the House would remember that on a recent occasion a financial lecture had been delivered by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who had told them that every man had his peculiar crotchet which he pressed upon the Government and Parliament, however expensive it might be to the public. There was before them at that moment an example of what the Government themselves could do in this way. That was the first time a Vote was asked for the Academy of Music. The Academy was a private one. ["No, no!"] He believed it was strictly a private Academy. In the present Session the House had put a stop to street music, which amused the people. They were now about to pay for music for the better classes. The House had degenerated into a rich roan's club. The first attempt was to get £500 for the Academy of Music, but before long we would have them in a building, and when the public interests required that they should be turned out, the House would be asked for a Vote to keep them in. He could not understand how the Government could make such a proposition if they were anxious for economy. He knew the Secretary to the Treasury (Mr. Frederick Peel) was a musical man, that he attended concerts, and was acquainted with the Academy. Well, he also was acquainted with it; and he challenged the Chancellor of the Exchequer to produce six good singers whom it had ever produced. They did not want the Academy at the expense of the taxpayers of the country; and though the House was a thin one he hoped it would have sufficient spirit to reject the proposition. Again he challenged the Chancellor of the Exchequer to produce any person eminent either in vocal or instrumental music whom the Academy had handed down. It was nothing but an attempt on the part of a few amateurs to indulge their taste at the expense of the public; and he, therefore, moved that the Vote be rejected.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he had stated that they took the declaration of the merchants as to value.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he believed there was no reason to doubt the general accuracy of the Returns. The imports with regard to quantity were ascertained from the entries made and also from information supplied by the dock authorities. He believed it was the practice of the Customs to compute the value of the imports from the prices of the various
 1609
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he would beg before he did that to be permitted to make further inquiry. They had not the same means of ascertaining such particulars in regard to exports as they had in regard to imports; and in the case of the former they placed reliance on the declaration of the exporter.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he expected that a portion of these bonds would be paid off next year.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the rate of interest would be specified in the Bill.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  observed, that there could be no doubt that his hon. Friend (Mr. Osborne) was exercising a right in objecting to a new Vote proposed by the Government,
 1602 1603
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not wish to mislead the Committee, and he would, therefore, inform them that there had been an application from Dublin founded upon the proposed grant; but the answer given was that it was an experimental proposal, and that any other application was premature. Within very moderate limits he thought it not unwise to recognize the claims of Dublin and Edinburgh in such cases. But if even the grant of £500 were supplemented by grants of £200 or £300 to those two cities, the fears of the hon. Member must be easily excited if they were aroused by the contingency of such proposals. He hoped that the hon. Gentleman would not attempt to propagate the fallacy that it was a question between the music of the higher and of the lower classes, because the music of the higher classes was the
 1605
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Member had mistaken what he said.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that in 1860 the Government proposed that a certain charge should be levied on bills of lading for exports, mainly with a view of giving the Customs authorities power to obtain very precise and accurate statistics with respect to goods exported. A great deal of complaint, however, was made by the trade on that subject, and a Committee reported that the old mode of obtaining such statistical information was sufficient for its purpose.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was not about to enter into the general discussion, but as he had been referred to be wished to say a few words. A conversation which he had had with the Greek Minister had been alluded to, and
 1582 1583
 MR. COGAN  said, the majority against the Motion was composed of a number of Gentleman who had come from the library and Committee-rooms, and who had consequently heard nothing of the discussion. As he felt certain that if they had heard the discussion they would have voted for the Motion, he should move that the Chairman report Progress.
 MR. COGAN  said, he hoped that the Government would consent to withdraw the measure for the Session.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he would move that the Chairman do leave the Chair, as they ought not to proceed further with the Bill without having the evidence before them.
 MR. CHARLES FORSTER  said, as there was a general concurrence of opinion from both sides of the House in favour of the principle of the Bill, and as the Bill consisted of but one clause, he could see no reason why it could not be carried into law this Session. He wished to ask, Whether, in the event of the Order of the Day for going into Committee on the Bill being discharged, the Attorney General will be prepared to introduce it as a Government measure early in the next Session of Parliament?
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  thought that the knowledge of music was in such a condition in this country that improvement was highly desirable; and he protested against the time of the Committee being wasted in discussing a Vote which was so small as to have scarcely any effect upon the expenditure of the country.
 SIR GEORGE COLTHURST  said, he thought they ought not to proceed with the Bill, as they had not the Report of the Committee.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the best answer he could give was to refer the hon. and gallant Gentleman to Her Majesty's reply to the address of the other House, which referred to the terms of the Act of Parliament, and stated distinctly—as, indeed, was the case with every other assize town—that if hereafter public convenience in reference to the administration of justice should seem to require that a change should be made or an inquiry instituted, the Question should be re-considered. Of course this could be done as well in regard to the West Riding as to any other county, Leeds stood in no exceptional position—it was to the West Riding what Winchester was to Hampshire and Salisbury to Wilts, and nothing more; and according to the terms of the Act of Parliament reference might be made to the Privy Council if it were shown that a change was required in the interests of the administration of justice.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to ask how it was that there was an increase in the Vote this year of upwards of £17,000? There was strong reason to believe that the Reports of imports and exports were not correct, that there were no accurate data upon the subject, and he wanted to hear from the President of the Board of Trade what was the machinery by which the Returns were obtained, and whether he would undertake to show that the monthly and annual Returns, especially of exports, were accurate?
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  expressed himself dissatisfied with the explanation given by the President of the Board of Trade upon the Customs Votes. He should not have raised the question if there had not been evidence on the table that the Returns were very inaccurate.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  inquired the rate of interest on the bonds.
 MR. CAIRD  objected to the clause, because he perceived that the proposed remedy would oftentimes prove the means of propagating the disease which it was desired to prevent, as the animal would frequently have to be dragged from one end of the market to another, and come into contact with a large number of healthy animals.
 MR. CAIRD  said, he would beg to ask, If Her Majesty's Government have received any assurance from the Government of Spain to the effect that, during the occupation of the Chincha Islands by that Power, no opposition will be offered to the fulfilment of contracts for the removal of Guano from those Islands?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that while the hon. Member for Swansea declared that all these things should be left to voluntary effort, the hon. Member for Liskeard showed that voluntary effort had in this case been at work for forty-four years, and could go on no longer. There was surely some inconsistency in these
 1608
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, he did not regard the clause as so objectionable, because the presence of a diseased sheep in a flock would be much more damaging to the remainder than if the animal were removed to such a place as that contemplated by the clause. He thought its working would be found difficult in fairs, but it certainly ought to be applied to markets, where the animals were generally fat beasts and were usually purchased by the butcher.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  reminded the hon. and gallant Member for Portarlington (Colonel Dunne) that it was complained that Ireland was suffering from a pressure of taxation. The hon. and gallant Gentleman wished for additional
 1606
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, the real question was, whether the President of the Board of Trade could pledge himself that the statement he had made about the existing machinery for collecting this information was a correct one, and whether the right hon. Gentleman himself could rely in any way upon that machinery?
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, he wished the right hon. Gentleman to explain more explicitly what was the exact machinery by which the value and quantities of exports were ascertained.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE,  in reply, said, that the number of gates removed by
 1571 2d.
 SIR WILLIAM MILES  said, he could not agree with the opinion which the noble Lord entertained of the working of the clause, and he hoped that the Committee would proceed with it, although the words "or fair" might perhaps be left out with advantage.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, there is no intention at present of appointing a Consul at Rio. Mr. Morgan, the Consul at Bahia, has been ordered to Rio for the moment for the transaction of commercial business, but he is not the Consul there. The consulship of Santos is also vacant, and Mr. Haydon has been appointed for the moment to transact the business there. It is not the intention of Her Majesty's Government to propose to this House to repeal the Act of 1845; and I may mention that Lord Aberdeen was at the head of the Government from December, 1852, to December, 1855, and no steps were taken during his administration for repealing the Act in question.
 LORD STANLEY  said, that the promoters of the Bill had proposed certain compensations and arrangements with the Gas Company, with which the Company were perfectly satisfied. So far from the 50,000 tons of coal consumed annually by the Gas Company impeding the traffic of the streets, there was no difficulty in foreseeing that it would be brought by railways. It was true the line was laid out for passenger traffic only, but there was no reason why they should not carry their coal at nights. He believed it was the plan of all railways to carry their goods traffic on at night. At all events, he thought he might venture to say that but little of the 50,000 tons of coal would come on the streets of London. It had been objected that the Bill had not been brought in by a company, but by individuals. But, with regard to these Private Bills, he apprehended all Parliament had to do was to consider whether the scheme was one likely to prove beneficial to the public, and not with reference to the promoters, and he never knew of any difficulty in finding money for a line that was likely to pay. The principal objection to the Bill really was, the
 1620 1621
 MR. SCOURFIELD  drew attention to the fact that the promoters of this Bill had made a deposit of stock borrowed for the occasion, a proceeding which a Select Committee had just pronounced to be an evasion of the spirit if not of the letter of the Standing Orders. Under all the circumstances of the case, he thought the House ought not then to pass the measure.
 MR. J. A. SMITH  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether there would be any objection to lay before the House a Letter addressed to Earl De Grey by Mr. Alfred Jeffery on the 29th of April last in reference to his Correspondence with the War Office, and the results of his experiments with Rifled Ordnance since July, 1854?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON,  in reply, said, there would be no objection on the part of the War Office to lay on the table the Correspondence which had taken place between that Department and Mr. Jeffery if the hon. Member thought fit to press for it, but there would be some inconvenience in producing an isolated letter from that Correspondence. He might, however, state the opinion entertained with regard to Mr. Jeffery's inventions. Mr. Jeffery, as long ago as July, 1854, submitted a specimen of his compound shot to the Government, which very shortly afterwards determined to institute experiments with projectiles on Mr. Jeffery's principle, and also to place at his disposal guns to be rifled on any system which he might think best adapted for carrying his projectiles. Experiments with cast-iron guns had been conducted and brought to a conclusion, and there had been further experiments with his projectiles from wrought-iron guns. More importance had always been attached to Mr. Jeffery's projectiles than to any system of rifling which he had brought forward. The Ordnance Committee had given it as their opinion that Mr. Jeffery had succeeded in the objects which he originally proposed to himself—namely, that he had effected a mechanical junction between the two metals, iron and lead. They also thought that Mr. Jeffery was the first to
 1625
 MR. T. BARING  thought his hon. Friend who had just spoken (Mr. Newdegate) had rather wandered from the question, which was not whether Mr. Christie had been abused, or whether Brazilian Judges were corrupt, but whether by conciliation and kind language we were not likely to renew friendly relations with Brazil, to increase our commerce, to obtain justice for Englishmen, and to succeed in the negotiations which were now taking place? His hon. Friend might say that the internal slave trade was an abominable traffic, and so it was; but the Act of 1845 was not levelled against the internal, but against the foreign slave trade; and when there was evidence that in Brazil the latter had ceased, the whole case of his hon.
 1646
 MR. PACKE  said, he rose to call attention to the Report of the Inspector of Reformatories, on the state of the St. Bernard's Reformatory at Whitwick, in Leicestershire. In doing so he begged to assure his noble Friend the Member for Arundel (Lord E. Howard) and the other Roman Catholic Members of the House, that he was actuated by no invidious motives. Last year an outbreak had taken place in this Reformatory of so serious a nature that some of the police who were called in were nearly murdered by the boys who were engaged in the disturbance. The Reformatory was then under the management of the monks of St. Bernard; but as it was found they were not able to deal with such refractory youths, it was afterwards transferred to other hands. On the 19th of June, 1863, it was agreed to commit the management to a number of gentlemen, whose names were among the most respectable of the Roman Catholics of this country, and among them were two clergymen. On the 19th of June Mr. Harper, one of the committee of management, wrote a letter stating that the government of the institution was completely altered, and that rules had been formed by means of which the boys would be kept in the most perfect order. One of the rules was to the effect that no boy should be suffered to go out of the school without being under the supervision of one of the authorities. That rule the managers had no means of enforcing. Mr. Sydney Turner, the Inspector of Reformatories, wrote to the Secretary of State, informing him that the arrangements were complete; that the new system ought be allowed to go on for one year from the 1st of July; that during that interval the number of inmates would be limited to 100, and that the experience of twelve months would enable them to see whether the Reformatory could be successfully conducted. Within four months from that time the Inspector visited the institution again, and
 1647 1648
 MR. HEYGATE  said, the alarm which prevailed on this subject had been somewhat exaggerated in the newspapers and elsewhere; still, as he lived in the immediate neighbourhood, he must say he could not look with indifference at repeated out-breaks of this character. The right hon. Baronet, however, had exercised a wise discretion in not withdrawing his certificate, as a very great improvement had taken place in the management. These outbreaks were to a large extent attributable to the number of boys crowded together being greater than could well be managed in one reformatory; and a Report to that effect had been made two years ago by the Inspector. The reconvictions almost always came from reformatories where the largest number of boys were collected together. With re-
 1651
 MR. PEEL  thought that, upon whatever question of detail the hon. Gentleman might raise objections, he would not deny that the claims upon the West India Colonies were perfectly fair and legitimate. It was quite as much for the advantage of the West India Colonies as for the advantage of this country that regular postal communication should be maintained, and if they shared the benefit it was only reasonable that they should share the cost. The rule applied to those colonies was a rule generally adopted with respect to other colonies. In the case of India, one-half of the expense of the mail service was defrayed by the Indian Government; and in the case of Australia, one-half of the loss arising upon the postal service was paid by the different Australian Colonies. Canada and Mauritius maintained mail services at their own expense; and with respect to the Cape, which made no contribution, the proceeds of the postal charges were more than sufficient to meet the expenses. With respect to the mode in which the claims upon the colonies had been computed, he would observe that the mail line went direct to St. Thomas and there branched off in three directions, and no claim was made upon the West Indian Colonies for the expense of those portions of the service which extended beyond St. Thomas to Brazil or Mexico. The Correspondence upon the table showed that when the West India Mail Company was asked what reduction in their terms they could agree to if their service was confined to the West India Islands, and not extended to Mexico and other foreign ports, the answer was, that no reduction could be made, because it was precisely from those other portions of the service beyond the West Indian Colonies that they expected to derive a remuneration which would compensate for the loss upon other branches of the service. The hon. Gentleman had asked what answers had been received from the West Indian Colonies. He (Mr. Peel) had only seen three answers—of Jamaica, of Granada, and of British Guiana—all of which were unfavourable. What he had stated at the beginning of the Session was, that if the colonies were able to contribute but declined to do so, then the Government would consider what steps should be taken. But
 1658
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, no statement of the military expenses incurred in this war had been laid on the table by the War Department, because it was quite impossible that such a statement could be made. The war had taken place in this and the last year, and the accounts for the military expenditure of last year were not yet laid upon the table, nor could they be included in this year's Estimates; but the commissariat charges and field allowances had been taken at an increased amount, in case the war should continue. The expense of organizing a large transport corps had been estimated, but it would be absolutely delusive to attempt to lay on the table an account of the actual expenses incurred. When the Army Expenditure of 1863 was laid before the House, it would be seen what expenditure the war had entailed.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : Not the Estimates, but the account of the military expenditure.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that the expenses, so far as could be done, had been included in the Estimates which had been laid before the House; but the war was going on at the time.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, it would be quite possible to give an approximate estimate of the expenses from time to time. To get an estimate two years after the event was of no use. It might as well not be printed.
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  said, he hoped they should receive from the Colonial Secretary a more satisfactory statement than had yet been given as to the nature of the security which was to be good enough for that House but was not good enough for the merchants of the City. Unless he could elicit some such statement from the
 1682
 GENERAL PEEL : Sir, before the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cardwell) answers the hon. Baronet, I wish to put this question to him:—What power has the Government of New Zealand in directing the movement of the British troops in that
 1683 "If the Maoriea did not make it a point of honour to fight each man for his own land, they
 1684 History 1685
 MR. CARDWELL : My right hon. Friend has put to me a Question which I understand to be this—In whom rests the control and command of the Queen's forces in New Zealand?—does it rest with the Colonial Minister or with the Colonial Governor? My right hon. Friend the Under Secretary of State read the other night an extract of the despatch of the Duke of Newcastle, in which the government of Native affairs was given over to the Colonial Minister, but in which the control, command, and management of the Queen's forces was exclusively placed in the Governor of the colony. The Correspondence has been laid on the table. I have stated the views of Her Majesty's Government with reference to the policy that ought to be pursued in reference to the land question, and the feeling of the House appeared to be favourable to those views. But they were already in writing, for it so happened that the post left that very day, and they went by that day's post to New Zealand; and they have been laid on the table of this House. They were intended to obviate the risk and possibility of war arising from a desire of making the forces of the Queen subservient to taking land from the Natives. So much for the general policy; but with regard to the control of the Governor over the troops, I will read an extract from a despatch which I addressed to the Governor, and which is also on the table. It is dated the 26th of May, and is in these words—
 "I entirely anticipate that your Ministers will be animated by a just sense of the exertions and sacrifices which have already been made by the mother country for the colony, and that on colonial grounds they will be as anxious as you will be yourself to terminate the present hostilities. But it is my duty to say to you plainly that if, unfortunately, their opinion should be different from your own as to the terms of peace, Her Majesty's Government expect you to act on your own judgment, and to state to your Ministers explicitly that an army of 10,000 English troops
 1686 1687 1688
 MAJOR HAMILTON  said, that as the House had been told that a portion of this loan would be employed in compensating the colonists who lost their all in the last war, he trusted that compensation would also be given to those who had lost their property in the present war. There was, for example, the case of Mr. Calvert, who was sitting by his own fireside when his child was murdered by the Natives. He rushed out, was wounded while gallantly fighting, and his property was destroyed. He hoped that a part of the money would be employed in making good these losses.
 COLONEL SYKES  must repeat his objections to this Bill, and to the entire policy of guaranteeing colonial loans. The war was part of a system of continued aggression on the Natives for the ultimate purpose of extermination. Then as to the guarantee, what was it? The revenue of the colony was stated to be £700,000 per annum, but the expense of 10,000 troops at £40 per man would be £400,000. Then there were the items of the payment of local troops, the interest of the debt, compensation to sufferers, and the local government expenses. After these charges had been met, what would become of the security? The revenues of the colony, too, were not in the hands of the Treasury but under the control of local Ministries, which
 1689 A laugh!
 MR. WHALLEY  protested against it being said that this was a war of aggression against the Natives; the war had nothing to do with land, but originated entirely in the massacre of some of our troops. He wished also to say that Sir George Grey had stated in New Zealand that he had traced the origin of this war to the Roman Catholic Missionaries. He put the question on a former occasion three times in one night, and he received for answer that it was too late to discuss the matter. Too late to put such a question! He spent nearly a whole day at the Colonial Office on the subject, and he was told there were floating recollections in the minds of the officials there that some such communication had been received. He then put the question in the House, and cited the Canadian rebellion and other recent cases; but only got for answer that the loyalty of the Canadians was unimpeachable, and that it was absurd to cite them in reference to New Zealand. He wished for a distinct answer, and if he did not receive it he would ask the House to grant him a return of all the communications which had been received from Sir George Grey relative to the origin and progress of the war.
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, the right hon. and gallant Gentleman (General Peel) had called attention to the immense mischief likely to arise if the practice prevailing in New Zealand were persisted in, of allowing the responsible Ministers of the Governor to dictate to the Commander of the forces with reference to the movement of the troops in that province. It was said by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Card-well), that he had written a despatch which, if attended to, would have the effect of preventing the recurrence of such a bad practice in future. But he (Mr. Arthur Mills) wished to call the attention of the House to the very difficult position in which they were placed with regard to the consequences, or rather probable want of consequences, resulting from that despatch. It was the fact, however, as appeared from the papers before the House, that the prac-
 1690 1691
 MR. WYKEHAM MARTIN  said, he rose at the request of several of his Friends to read an extract from a letter which he had received since the right hon. Gentleman had begun his speech. The writer, who was known to many Members of the House, and for whose shrewdness and ability he could answer, and who, though now within a few miles of the seat of war in New Zealand, till about fifteen months ago knew as little about that country as most hon. Members did now, after describing an engagement in which of 400 Natives 200 had been killed or wounded continued—
 "They are a brave race, and it seems a great shame to take their land from them. We all out here consider the war an unjust one. But the cry of the colonists is still for land. Moreover, the troops are the making of Auckland, as contractors and that kind of people are making large fortunes. So long, therefore, as you are fools enough to supply the needful, so long will they keep on the war. General Cameron has captured millions of acres which a few months ago belonged to the Natives." 1692
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that if when the Estimates were passed the Government had foreseen the unfortunate turn which events in New Zealand had subsequently taken, they would not have proposed reduction in any of the votes. At the same time he saw no reason for introducing a supplemental Estimate at the present moment. If the Estimate was exceeded there would be ample time before the close of the financial year to adopt that measure. It, unfortunately, seemed probable that hostilities might continue for some time longer; but, looking at the war from a financial point of view, hon. Members must recollect that the chief source of expense was the cost of transporting commissariat supplies and stores for a large army in the field in the interior of the country. General Cameron had, however, now removed the greater part of his forces from the interior, leaving only a sufficient number of troops to hold the posts from which he had driven the Natives, and had transported them by sea to the eastern shore of the Island, where the operations were likely to be less expensive than those carried on in the interior. Besides this, the Commissariat had, according to the last advices, made arrangements for supplying the troops left in the interior by means of water carriage, which would be much cheaper than the laud transport which they had hitherto had to employ. The House would gain no information from any supplemental Estimate which could now be laid upon the table, founded, as it must be, upon no certain  data
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, that he had received a letter from that distinguished naval officer Sir William Wiseman, commanding on the New Zealand station, in which he described the excellent service rendered by the naval brigade at Tauranga, where he himself directed the operations, and detailed the particulars of the gallant and noble deaths of Captain Hamilton of the  Esk Harrier,
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that in the despatch he had sent to Sir George Grey he had distinctly stated that no portion of the guaranteed loan was to be applied to the purposes of a military settlement.
 MR. WALPOLE  regarded the war as being most unjust, and he hoped that as soon as it was ended an entirely new policy with reference to New Zealand would be initiated, but it was another question what should be done in the present crisis. Our policy had been quite sufficient to provoke the inhabitants of the colony to the acts which they had committed, but we could not conduct ourselves towards a colony when in a crisis in the same manner as we would deal with that colony at the conclusion of the war.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, that having engaged in an unjust quarrel, the only
 1694
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  thought it had been shown that the security would not be sufficient for the loan of a million, and he should support the Amendment of his hon. Friend (Mr. Morrison), as he thought it might be good enough for the loan of half that amount.
 MR. WHITE  wished to know, whether the colonists intended raising a further sum of £2,000,000 upon the security of colonial debentures, and whether they purposed applying it to their grand scheme of colonization?
 MR. CARD WELL  said, that the £2,000,000 had nothing to do with the present loan, which would have a prior claim upon the revenue.
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  would not vote for the Amendment, for he objected altogether to the principle of a guarantee.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  could not sit still and hear the war stigmatized as being unjust. Had the Government concurred in that view, orders would have been issued long since to put an end to it upon any terms. He maintained that any one who would carefully examine the subject could not fail to come to the conclusion that the war was a just and necessary one. The Governor (Sir George Grey) had used every effort to prevent a most warlike, turbulent, and misguided portion of the Natives from renewing hostilities with their neighbours, but had unfortunately failed; and he had been forced by the perversity and unjust and extravagant suspicions of the Natives into a war which was strictly a war of self-defence.
 COLONEL SYKES  wished to know, if the war had not originated in the objection which some chiefs entertained against the sale of some land by another chief, which they said he had no right to sell without their consent?
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, that the hon. and gallant Member referred to the former and not to the present war. The Governor in that instance not unjustly refused to submit to the dictation of a Native chief who had usurped the prerogative of the Crown.
 MR. AYRTON  thought the Under Secretary of the Colonies was mistaken as to the origin of the war. Governor Browne had stated that the colonists were determined to get possession of the land of the Natives, rightly if they could, if not by any other mode.
 MR. AYRTON  asked, whether the arrangement that this country was to pay half the expenses of the war was to be permanent?
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that in the Correspondence it was stated distinctly that the arrangement was subject to revision hereafter.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he was not aware that the military correspondence had been promised.
 MR. CORRY  asked what would be the result if the House refused its sanction to these transfers?
 MR. COWPER  stated that if there was no engineering difficulty he should give instructions for the removal of the tramway as suggested. His desire was that the flanges should continue, but in another place.
 LORD EDWARD HOWARD  thanked the Chancellor of the Exchequer for making this proposition, for the distress in the manufacturing districts had by no means passed away.
 MR. LYGON  asked whether the Committee was to understand that the further action was to relieve the Commissioners of Audit or the Treasury, or any other body, from any responsibility?
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, the Committee was perfectly aware of all the circumstances which had led the Government to recommend this purchase to Parliament, and therefore he would not take up time by making any statement upon the subject. He should be very happy, however, to answer any questions which might be put to him.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that as the proceeding which he was about to ask the Committee to take was a novel one, he felt it his duty to say a few words to explain the object of the Resolutions which he had just handed to the Speaker. Up to last year the Reports of the Army and Navy expenditure were laid upon the table soon after the meeting of Parliament, and they passed, so to speak,  sub silentio;
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, the hon. and gallant Member for Wakefield (Sir John Hay) had quoted a private letter from a personal friend, in which it was stated that our squadron on the coast of Africa was unable to cope with the slave trade. A similar statement was made the other night, when he (Lord Clarence Paget) stated that, he had no knowledge of any slaver having escaped from our squadron after a fair chase.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, the statement of his hon. and gallant Friend was, that in spite of four steamers the slaver got away. All he could say was, that he had heard nothing of such a case, I nor had any information to that effect reached the Admiralty. His hon. and gallant Friend said that positive orders had been given to the various ships composing the squadron not to leave their station for the purpose of chasing slavers. But his hon. and gallant Friend knew that if our vessels were to leave their station it would be one of the most advantageous things that could happen for the slave dealers, as they would immediately take the opportunity of despatching slave ships during the temporary absence of the station ship. It was quite possible that a certain number of fast American steamers might be employed in the trade, and no doubt it would be advisable to match them by faster ships; but we wanted fast steamers all over the world, and to send a fresh squadron to the coast of Africa every year because fast American steamers were sent there would be attended with great inconvenience. The Admiralty were perfectly alive to the subject, and would not neglect any opportunity for providing for any contingency.
 LORD ERNEST BRUCE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, When the provisions of an Act of Parliament, which received the Royal Assent on the 28th of July, 1863, intituled "An Act for the better Regulation of the Traffic in the Streets of the City of London, and for the prevention of obstructions therein," are likely to be carried into effect; whether Colonel Fraser, the City Commissioner of Police, did not several months ago send in a proposed set of Rules, Orders, and Regulations, approved of by the City Law Officers, for the approbation of the Secretary of State, and what has been the cause of so long a delay?
 LORD HARRY VANE  quite agreed with the noble Marquess, that an exact estimate of the war expenses could not be furnished, but he did not see why an approximate estimate could not. It might be right or wrong to pursue the policy which we had adopted on the Gold Coast, but then it had been followed ever since 1842.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, the House could not be surprised that very considerable interest had been excited in the neighbourhood of this Reformatory by the proceedings which had taken place, and he believed he might say that the feeling was unanimous that the Reformatory ought to be removed. The boys placed there had been brought from a great distance, and it was quite clear they had been placed under a management which was not capable of conducting an establishment of that description. The whole neighbourhood had been kept in constant apprehension, and even the monks themselves were quite as anxious as others to be freed from the neighbourhood of these refractory lads. The right hon. Baronet had detailed the steps which had been taken for improving the future management, and as representing that part of the county he must say he should be very glad if those measures did succeed; but if another outbreak should occur he hoped the certificate would not be extended; that the boys would be sent to the ship at Liverpool; that measures would be taken to free Leicestershire from the evils to which the county had in no way contributed, and that they would hear no more of these most serious and unpleasant outbreaks.
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether Her Majesty's Government will give their favourable consideration to the propriety of extending to all the other public offices the Saturday Half Holiday, which has long prevailed to a certain extent in the Audit and some other Offices, and which, as the Secretary to the Treasury has stated, has been granted to the Post Office, without entailing on the public inconvenience or expense?
 MR. AYRTON  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury a Question respecting the territorial guarantee contained in the Treaty of Vienna. He wished to know, Whether any representations have been made on the part of this country to Prussia to the effect, that if Prussia insists upon departing from the Treaty which settled the limits and conditions of the Germanic Confederation, the British Government will not hold itself further bound by that guarantee?
 MR. AYRTON  said, that if the Bill were thrown out the inhabitants of the metropolis, with the exception of the City corporation, would be greatly prejudiced, and he expressed a hope that the House would not listen to the opposition of the corporation. The proposed line formed part of a complete system of circular metropolitan railways, which it was desirable should be carried out for the benefit of the whole of the metropolis, and a most inconvenient gap would be created in the system if this Bill should be thrown out.
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had misunderstood the remarks of his right hon. Friend (Mr. Adderley). He did not understand that his right hon. Friend had stated his intention of moving for a Committee to inquire into the whole subject, but that the question of the Protectorate was one which ought to be inquired into; and in that opinion he (Mr. A. Mills) fully
 1677
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  asked, whether the right hon. Gentleman could give the Committee an estimate of what the revenue of Lagos was?
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, that by the last accounts from the United States they had heard that the  Science
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, what he desired was to restrict the number of our forces abroad.
 MR. ADDERLEY  asked for an explanation of the circumstance that Governor Pine was adverse to raising any taxes in the colony itself. He said in one of his despatches he had neither the face nor the courage to do so.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he believed that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Colonies had done all that could be done in the case which had been brought so prominently under the notice of the House. He thought that of the papers now before Parliament the most satisfactory one of all was the despatch of the right hon. Gentleman, in which certainly he showed a determination to apply a remedy to an existing evil, and to prevent a recurrence of the unfortunate complications
 1671
 MR. ADDERLEY : He was, then, quite correct in thinking that they had not before them an estimate of the expenditure for the whole of the affair. The present case afforded a striking exemplification of the mistaken policy we had adopted on that coast. The policy of setting up a protecting Power on the West Coast of Africa was both wasteful and mischievous, and he took this opportunity of giving notice that on the first day of next Session he should move for a Select Committee, which might inquire into the whole subject, with the view of preventing a recurrence of such evils as those which we were now lamenting. By assuming the task of protecting barbarous tribes, we not only scattered our army to an unnecessary extent, but exposed our troops to a demoralizing and deadly service—not only by warfare, but by the pestilential climate of some of the most unhealthy parts of the world. It was folly enough for us to assist great colonies as vigorous as ourselves in their wars for self-defence, without setting up Protectorates on the coast of Africa to which barbarous tribes would look for aid in mutual hostilities, and for plunder for themselves. We have had experience enough to show us how insane a policy this was, and the sooner we backed out of it the better. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Colonies told them
 1672 1673 1674
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the hon. Member had stated that Mr. Christie had somehow or other been provided for in this country. Now, whatever Mr. Christie derived from this country he had earned by honest service. But this was not the only act of injustice of which the hon. Member had been guilty. The hon. Member attributed to Mr. Christie having sent home an extract from a Brazilian paper, which had been quoted by the noble Lord at the head of the Government. Mr. Christie
 1644 "Most Illustrious and Excellent Judge,—Your Excellency is a Judge in the cause in which an Englishman (Reeves) denies the maternity of a lady Deslinda, in order to deprive her of her inheritance from her son, and I am so convinced of the right of this lady that I take the liberty of asking you to vote for her. Read the arguments of Nabuco, compare them with the proofs in the cause, and you will see that what I ask is just. I thank you by anticipation for your kindness, and beg you to give orders to your most affectionate friend, &c." 1645
 MR. NEWDEGATE  expressed his hope that no establishments of this kind would be set on foot for the future.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he rose to do an act of justice to Mr. Christie, our Minister at Brazil, who had been spoken of in terms of reprobation by the hon. Member for Liskeard.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, his belief was that in the matter between Lagos and Abbeokuta the former was more sinned against than sinning. He held out hopes last year that Lagos would this year be able to pay its own expenses, and such was his belief at the time. But the reason why they were now obliged to ask a slight assistance for the colony was mainly because the neighbouring tribes had persisted in waging war among themselves,
 1681
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, they were not fighting with Mr. Freeman—it was their neighbours that were fighting.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that in 1862, the last year of which he had any account, it was £7,120. The Estimate for the present year was considerably larger.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that the subject should receive the attention of Her Majesty's Government.
 MR. CARDWELL : It was not the military expenditure. I said we were on the Civil Service Estimates, and that these were expenses incurred by the Civil Governor on account of the war.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that owing to the invasion of the King of Ashantee and the extraordinary severity of the season, there had been a great famine and great distress in the colony, and the passage to which his right hon. Friend had referred related to that state of things. It was only when the revenue of the colony was deficient that that House was asked to defray the expense. He had received no information as to why the tanks had been suffered to go out of repair. They ought to have been kept in repair out of the revenue of the colony itself. The salary of Mr. Freeman, at Lagos, was made up in this way—£500 was taken for him as Consul in the Consular Estimate, and £500 for him as Governor in that Vote.
 MR. CARDWELL : I entirely sympathize with every expression of regret for the sufferings of our soldiers on the Cape Coast, which has fallen from the hon. Member; but the right hon. Gentleman ought to have had the candour to acknowledge that the Colonial Office has done everything in its power to mitigate those sufferings the moment the news of thorn reached this country. The right hon. Gentleman, with that disregard for accuracy of dates which so frequently interfered with the good effect of his eloquence, has said that my proceedings were the natural result of a Vote of Censure. Now, so far from waiting for a Vote of Censure, the necessary measures were taken long before any Vote of Censure was heard of, and as soon as the news reached this country, as the right hon. Gentleman might have known if he had read the papers with any care. So, with regard to the stores also, the right hon. Gentleman might have known by reading the papers that special precaution was taken to prevent any part of the stores, particularly guns of any kind, falling into the hands of the King of Ashantee. There is quite enough to be regretted in this affair, and when we are speaking of a great public calamity it is just as well that hon. Gentlemen should be more accurate in their facts and their dates than the right hon. Gentleman has been. There
 1668 1669 "The relation of the Native tribes to the English Crown should be not the allegiance of subjects to which we have no right to pretend, and which it would entail an inconvenient responsibility to possess, but the deference of weaker
 1670
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, that the majority of merchants, bankers, and traders of London, as well as the corporation, were opposed to this Bill. He might say that all who had business in the City were opposed to it.
 MR. GOSCHEN  seconded the Motion.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he wished to ask whether Police Magistrates were to be expected to make these communications to the Home Office respecting the misconduct of the Police when, as had happened he believed in three instances, they had previously done so in vain?
 MR. WHALLEY  wished to know whether the Bill affected the Act of Settlement, It would enable any one single Bishop to inundate this country with clergymen of the Scotch Episcopal Church, who indulged to a considerable extent in the doctrine of Transubstantiation.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, it was a personal question with the people of Lagos.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, that the people of Abbeokuta had not been on good terms with them since Mr. Freeman had become Governor.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he was glad that the right hon. Gentleman was resolved to move for a Committee next Session: if he had not made the announcement he (Mr. Henry Seymour) should have done so himself, for he wished to see the whole question ventilated. He hoped, however, that in the meanwhile the Colonial Office would have devised some better means of managing the affairs of these settlements. He must say, however, that he thought the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Adderley) was riding his hobby too hard when he designed to confine England to the limits of these Islands; it seemed to him (Mr. Henry Seymour) absurd to talk of restraining this nation within such narrow limits.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  remarked, that the natural course for a people so powerful, vigorous, and enterprising as that of England was to expand and to occupy nearly every region of the world; and if Napoleon had seen the present wealth, power, and influence of this country in all parts of the world, he would have approved the policy of the British Government for the last thirty or forty years. As to the outcry about these paltry military expenses, he would ask how our colonies could have become so prosperous if they had not been aided in their weakness by the mother country? While our colonies and possessions added largely, on the whole, to the wealth of the mother country, there must necessarily be some which, like the territories of the United States, required for a time an expenditure from the mother country in order that they might become the sources of wealth to the generation which followed. Instead, therefore, of restricting our present policy, he would extend it still further; and if this question were debated he
 1675 1676
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  asked, how
 1680
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, the Government for some time had been spending £1,200 a month for this war, and an account of the estimated expenditure ought to be laid upon the table, as he believed was done in the case of the China and Crimean wars.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  asked if he was to understand the noble Marquess to say that all the military estimates were two years behindhand?
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he could give an answer to the question that had been put as to what we were doing in the colony, from a letter which he had received from a gentleman who was not connected with the army, but who was residing at Cape Coast Castle. This gentleman said that the protectorate was supported by the Imperial Government at a cost of £4,000 a year for the salaries of the Governor, the Chief Justice, the Colonial Secretary, the Collector of Customs, and the Police Magistrate; besides £750 a year for house rent for the Governor and other officials, Besides that amount the Governor borrowed £2,000 a year from the military chest, but it did not appear that he ever repaid that sum. It was to be returned when the protectorate was in a position to pay it. As the receipts from the customs were about£3,000, it was evident that the protectorate would never be able to support itself. In a war the Natives refused to render the slightest aid to the Government unless they were paid high wages, and they even declined to protect their own country unless they were paid for it. The gentleman whose letter he was quoting from said that the war was useless and unjust. It was useless, because no good could come of it, as there was not a single Ashantee on the coast; and to show that it was unjust he said a chief of the Ashantees having stolen a quantity of rock gold, and according to the law of his coun-
 1666 1667
 MR. BLAKE  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether he can state if any decision has been come to by the Government of the United States of America respecting the seizure some months since of the barque  Science
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Member for the City had in his speech mixed up two questions—one, the question of Order; and the other, the merits of the Bill. That
 1619
 MR. SPEAKER,  having recited the provisions of the Bill, said, that as there was an exact case in point, where the City of Bristol by a Private Act repealed certain provisions in a public Act, this Bill could not be stopped on a point of Order.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  rose, pursuant to notice, to call attention to the state of our political relations with Brazil, and said, Sir, I feel that some apology is due not only to the House but to the immense commercial interests which are affected—to the owners of Brazilian stock, and to all who are engaged in commercial intercourse with the Empire of Brazil, that some apology is due for my bringing on this subject at the eleventh hour to a fatigued House, exhausted by the labours of the Session. But if the House is exhausted by its labours, I think it is bound to remember the great issues which are at stake in the question of the unsatisfactory relations which have for a long period existed, and which still exist, between this country and the Empire of Brazil. The question is so important that I think even the Chancellor of the Exchequer would do well to interrupt his private conversation, and to listen to what is now going on—because it
 1627 1628 Vict. 1629 "Her Majesty's Government are far from wishing this mode of adjudicating vessels shall be permanent. They will be ready, as soon as any measures of the Brazilian Government shall enable them to do so, to recommend to Parliament to repeal the Act." 1630 "No reasonable doubt can be now entertained, that if this same system is energetically pursued for another twelve months the slave trade to the Brazils will be almost entirely extinguished." 1631 1632 "The slave trade might be regarded as extinct in Brazil, for though attempts had been made to revive it, they had not been attended with much success. There was generally evinced throughout the Brazils a spirit of determined hostility to the revival of the traffic." 1633
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Do you contradict it?
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Well, really, the noble Lord has the face to contradict anything. I did not expect that the statement would be contradicted, for, if I have read that award aright, the King of the Belgians said that the British officers were wrong, and that some amends ought to be made to the Brazilian Government. I can only wish that I had provided myself with the despatch, for the denial of the noble Lord shows how careful one ought to be. At any rate the decision was not in our favour. That, at least, the noble Lord will not gainsay, although he may, possibly, be able to get off upon a quibble of words. Well, there was another case. I find that in 1859 the British cruisers captured and retained a steamer belonging to the Republic of Paraguay, which was taken in the River La Plata. The whole affair was carefully kept secret until I asked whether any apology had been made. It was denied that any apology had been made; but the fact is that in 1862 Mr. Dorian, the British Chargé d'Affaires in that part of the world, was empowered to apologize to the Republic of Paraguay for the affront which had been offered to their steamer. I believe this to have been the first apology ever made by the noble Lord, and as such it is very curious, and deserves to be recorded in letters of gold. I have not the despatch by me, but I do not think that this will be denied. An apology was offered to the Government of Paraguay; but up to the present time no concession has been made in respect to the case of the  Forte 1634 "I think it right to observe for your information and guidance that, as the Government of Brazil have of late acted in perfect good faith in regard to the suppression of the slave trade, it would be advisable in any communications which you may have on this question of the emancipated negroes, to avoid as much as possible any discussions which may tend to continue the feeling of irritation which has so long existed in the public mind in Brazil against this country in reference to the slave trade." emancipados emancipados 1635 Owl Punch Essence of Parliament 1636
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : I beg pardon. I said he was universally unpopular in Brazil.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he would adopt that course.
 MR. CRAWFORD,  on behalf of the City of London, objected to the further progress of the Bill. It was one of a class of Bills which the corporation of London felt it their duty to take exception to at a very early period of the Session. The Bill was not one promoted by any authorized Company, but was promoted by certain individuals for the purpose of making a railway along the Thames Embankment and the new street to Cannon Street, and from thence, by tunnelling, to the Tower, The corporation objected to the proposal to carry the railway from Cannon Street, and they also objected to it because it was intended by this Private Bill to deprive the City Gas Company of certain rights which had been reserved to it by the Thames Embankment Act, which was a public Act. They further said that the merits of the Bill had not been duly considered by the Select Committee, three days only having been devoted to it. They objected also to it on account of its dealing with a vast amount of private property; and as the railway would pass under substantial build-
 1618 bonâ fide
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the effect of the change had been to give to this House a control which they did not possess before
 1697
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, that every person with whom he had conversed upon the subject entertained the belief that it would be most unwise for the present to bring more railways into the heart of London. He did not see how the other House could give this Bill proper consideration at this period of the Session; and all that the opponents of the Motion before the House asked was that the question should be again considered in another Session.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the Appropriation Act as framed last year in conformity with the recommendation of the Committee on Public Accounts gave the Treasury lo do only provisionally what before last Session it had done as a final act. Up to last year the Treasury had power to sanction the application by the Admiralty of any surplus on Votes passed by that House to meet advances on other Votes, and the effect of that arrangement was to pass the money without the transaction being submitted to the further and final approval of the House, though the transfer was brought under the notice of the House, inasmuch as the correspondence between the Departments was printed; but no Vote of the House was asked which would have enabled hon. Members to agree to dissent from the transfer. Under the new arrangement the appropriation was merely a provisional transaction, to be completed only when it was sanctioned by the subsequent Vote of the House. The main question which had arisen was whether the matter should be brought under the notice of the House by a simple Resolution or by a revoting of the money. This Resolution had nothing to do with the payment of money. The transaction was complete, and all that was wanted was the authority of Parliament. The effect of asking the House to pass this Resolution was simply to give them the opportunity, if they thought fit, of disapproving of any of these transfers from one Vote to another.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the reply to this question must be very much like Speaker Onslow's reply when asked what would be the consequence of his naming a Member? This was a class of transactions which followed the same principle as Votes for Civil Contingencies. It was necessary to intrust the Government with certain discretionary powers of spending money, and if these powers were misused, a Vote of Censure might be moved.
 MR. MASSEY  said, that this particular scheme had been considered both by the Joint Committee of Lords and Commons and by the Committee of that House presided over by the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn (Lord Stanley), and the noble Lord's name was a sufficient guarantee that the duties of the Committee had been efficiently performed. Two important bodies, the corporation of London and the Metropolitan Board of Works, represented by able counsel, had opposed the line, but without convincing the Committee that it was a bad one. It was for the other House, and not for them, to say whether or not the subject could be properly investigated before the Session closed. As to the deposit of borrowed money, although a Select Committee had condemned the practice, he was sure it was not intended, and would be rather hard, to give retrospective effect to the recommendation of the Committee, especially as the practice had been tacitly acquiesced in by the House for some years. As the opponents of the Bill would be able to state their case in the other House, he saw no reason why that House should reverse the decision of their Committee, and hoped the Bill would be read a third time.
 MR. MONSELL  said, the question before the Committee was, whether they should practically pass a Vote of Censure upon the Government by withdrawing this sum of £2,500. Now, it seemed to him most unfair to cast the blame for the present state of things upon the Government, who were simply carrying out a policy inaugurated in 1842 upon the re-commendation of a Committee of which Lord Derby was a Member, and adopted by successive Colonial Secretaries. The occasion of this war really was that the King of Ashantee had threatened the extermination of tribes which we were bound; to protect, and the Government would I have been wanting in their duty, if they had declined to afford their assistance. The loss of life on the occasion was, no; doubt, to be deplored; but according to Commodore Wilmot, if Major Cochrane had done his duty our troops would have marched to the capital of the King of Ashantee, and it was impossible for the Government to provide that all their officers serving on distant stations should be as efficient as could be desired.
 MR. TITE  believed that the amount of injury done by this railway to the City would be much less than was supposed, but he thought it would be wise to postpone the Bill until next Session, when they would have had the opportunity of seeing the progress of other works.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he observed a charge of £2,000 a year for a steamer for the use of the Governor of Gambia. He should like to know what duties were performed by that steamer? There was
 1661
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he had upon former occasions called attention to this Vote, and he felt bound to do so again, because recent occurrences had made it still more necessary that the attention of the Committee should be given to it. He did not desire to go into any discussion of the Asbantee war or of the transactions connected with it, but he wished to call the attention of the Committee to the imperfect control of Parliament over this Vote, with a view, if possible, of inducing the Government to make a better arrangement in future. For his own part he thought it a mistake to endeavour to extend our forts and our possessions in that part of the world. By such a course they did not advance the great cause which was the justification for the great sacrifice of life upon that coast—the suppression of the slave trade—while, on the other hand, these settlements were of little or no advantage in a commercial point of view.
 1659 1660
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  thought that the better arrangement would be to repay into the Exchequer the surplus upon any Vote, and then let Parliament revote it next Session.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that no Scotch clergyman would be admitted to a living or curacy in England under this Bill without taking the declaration required of English clergymen on ordination.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he was not surprised that the hon. Gentleman, as a Member for the county of Leicester, should have called the attention of the House to the disturbances which had recently taken place in the St. Bernard's Reformatory. The facts of the case were all contained in the papers which had been laid on the table, and from them it appeared, that although the Reformatory some time ago was certainly not managed in a way which could be regarded as in any degree satisfactory, yet its management had been greatly improved during the past year. The gentlemen in whose
 1649 1650
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he was not aware that the fact was as stated by the hon. Gentleman. All he could say was, that if the conduct of a constable required to be brought under the notice of the Commissioners of Police, it ought to be done in writing and not by a verbal statement, which might be inaccurately reported.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied, that he had previously stated the cause of the delay in bringing these traffic regulations into operation. Colonel Fraser had no authority in the matter, but the Court of Aldermen, having power by law to make regulations for the traffic, had transmitted to him, through the town clerk, some months ago, a series of regulations which they had made, in order that they might receive his sanction. He had referred those regulations for the opinion of the Law Officers of the Crown, who reported that some of them were in excess of the powers vested by law in the Court of Aldermen. He had accordingly sent them back, and on Tuesday last he received, through the town clerk, a revised set of regulations, which appeared to be free from all legal objection. He had, therefore, given them his sanction, and they would at once come into operation.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he desired to explain that Mr. Arnold, the Police Magistrate, thought the statement he had made the other night in answer to the hon. Member for Peterborough (Mr. Whalley) was calculated to throw blame upon him. He wished, therefore, to say that he had desired to cast no blame whatever upon Mr. Arnold. He had merely intended to convey that Mr. Arnold had not represented to the Secretary of State or the
 1626
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he could not allow the discussion to close without expressing his regret at another point in the speech of the noble Lord. The noble Lord said the statistics he had read showed
 1641 1642 "It seems a very strong measure indeed for us to legislate for Brazilian subjects; and although we have the Treaty of 1826, which stipulates that the slave trade shall be deemed to be piracy on the part of Brazil, we will not venture, in our legislation, to deal with the persons and lives of Brazilian subjects, but will only deal with their property." [3  Hansard 1643
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he wished to draw the attention of the Committee to two items in the Vote—that of £500 for the relief of famine on the Gold Coast, and that of £2,000 for the Ashantee war. It was hardly just to the country, he thought, to lead it to suppose that the expenses of a war which would more probably cost £200,000 would be defrayed by the latter amount, or that the famine in question could be effectually relieved for the sum which the Committee was asked to vote for the purpose. Since, he might add, the question of the Ashantee war had been discussed in that House, some further papers with respect to it had been produced, and the Colonial Office had, he was bound to say, duly performed its part in that respect. He was, however, surprised to find that the military authorities had furnished no information as to the operations which had very recently taken place. But to return for a moment to the famine, he found at page 9 of the "Further Papers" to which he alluded, a despatch addressed to the Duke of Newcastle, and dated July 13, 1863, in which Governor Pine said—
 "I highly approve and earnestly join in the prayer of the deputation, that your Grace will be pleased to provide this Government with supplies of provisions; for I firmly believe that the greatest distress will exist ere long, and that thereby, unless provided against, the movements which I so earnestly advocate, so soon as the rainy season shall be over, will be retarded," "I regret to perceive that your Grace is not in a position to hold out any promise of aid from Imperial funds with respect to a provision against the famine which I now regret to state is ravaging the country, in proof of which I have to mention that the price of a bushel of Indian corn, the staple article of food, has risen from 2 s. d. s. d., 1662 West African Times, 1663 "I have now but bad news. There is no end of sickness here. I never had so much to do in my life; one of my assistants died in my room last Monday evening. His was a most melancholy case. He was sent out from the West Indies in charge of the troops which came to aid us, and which have only helped to crowd our house. He and Dr. Flynn, an old Trinity chum, were sent in charge, and with general orders to proceed at once back; but the great want of medical officers required that I should detain them. Dr. Flynn I sent on to Lima (after being two months here) with invalids. Dr. Greig, the other, I sent in charge of troops on the march to the Prah, with orders to return at once. On his return he took ill of fever and dysentery, not severe at first. I brought him out of his lodgings to stay with me in my own room, where I could often see him; but, notwithstanding all care, he died on the 31st of May. He was buried on the 1st of June, the first officer in the new burial ground. Since its use on the 1st of May a man has been buried every day nearly. I have now only one to help me, and he is constantly taken ill. I have been sometimes alone for the whole work. Since I have been here, of five officers four have died, three of the medical staff, and one engineer—nine altogether, and fourteen invalided home. An officer of the 2nd West arrived with the troops on the 9th of April. He brought his wife, an old traveller, well accustomed to the tropics. She was carried on board ship in a basket on the 14th of May, and died two days after at sea. Anything like the privation and abomination of this place it would be impossible to find. I forgot to mention that if the military staff had been invalided home every mail that leaves carries a freight of fever-stricken mortals, who are hoisted on board in a basket, and then have to bear a single sea voyage in the worst ocean-going steamers that leave England. Coal coasters at home are larger and better than this African line. I wish the English people knew the real cost in life and money of this attempt to put down slavery. I suppose that is the only reason for keeping up these settlements. I am convinced. What the war is for I don't believe is known in England, and what it is costing in the articles above mentioned, I don't think either is known; or else, if so, they must see some great value unappreciated out here in the natives or country. Well, this is all unpleasant, and so any news of this place is ever likely to be." 1664 Rattlesnake 1665
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he had no wish
 1679
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he should be happy to supply his noble Friend with the information.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he understood that the military correspondence was to have been laid upon the table, but it had not as yet been produced.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he should move for it.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he would beg to ask, What Her Majesty's Government deemed to be the present position of the Treaty of 1852, and whether they held it to be still in force?
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  asked whether the tramway in the centre would be removed to the side next the curb, and whether the flanges would also be removed?
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  understood from Mr. Page that there would be no difficulty in removing the tramway.
 MR. CAVE,  in rising to put the question of which he bad given notice, in regard to the West India Contract, said, he wished to make a few remarks in explanation of his meaning. Early in the Session he had been surprised to receive at the West India Committee the copy of a letter from the Secretary of the Treasury to the Colonial Office, dated the 11th of March, calling upon the colonies to contribute towards the expenses of the Packet Service. That letter contained some remarkable passages; among other things credit was taken for the liberality of the proposal only to desire the colonies to contribute where they are directly concerned. They were not to be asked, for instance, to pay for the service from St. Thomas to Mexico. It would certainly be somewhat astonishing to call upon a British colony to pay any portion of the expense of the packet service from one foreign country to another. The geographical knowledge of Government Departments bad been said to be limited, and a story had been told of a despatch addressed to "the Island of De marara," but he (Mr. Cave) would not suppose that the Treasury could be ignorant that St. Thomas was not a British island, but was, perhaps, by that time almost the only possession left to the unhappy King of Denmark. The last passage, however, of the letter was most worthy of note. It ran thus—
 "It will be necessary that the payments to be made by the several colonies should be made not later than the 30th of June next, and the corresponding payments not later than the same day in each succeeding year." 1654 Hansard. 1655 1656 d. s. d. 1657
 MR. CAVE  did not think the cases of India and Australia were quite in point. India had not self-government, and the consent of the Australian Colonies had been obtained before the contract was concluded, a course which ought to have been followed in regard to the West Indies. He did not object to the principle of the colonies paying their fair proportions; he objected most to the manner in which the demands upon them had been made. He thought the Government should have asked their consent, and should have waited for their answers before making arrangements.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, he did not know it. It never came before him in the shape the noble Lord had put it.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD : Sir, I do not desire to address the House at any length; but the speech of the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) which we have just heard is so different in spirit to the one he delivered on a former occasion, that it is necessary I should make a few observations. The noble Lord has appeared in quite a new character, particularly with regard to Brazil. He says that he thinks the House will be of opinion that he will best discharge his duty by avoiding irritating language towards the Brazilian Government. ["Hear, hear!"] And I think that cheer shows the noble Lord that it is the opinion of the House that he will best discharge his duty by using moderate
 1639 1640 emancipados. emancipados emancipados emancipados.
 SIR WILLIAM FRASER  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether passports are required by British subjects travelling in France? The subject would, no doubt, be interesting to the large body of persons who were about to travel on the Continent. Looking to the tone of the articles which appeared in the German papers, he did not think Englishmen going to Switzerland would be likely to go through Prussia—they would, no doubt, much prefer going through France. Some time ago a notice appeared in the  Moniteur sous préfét 1652 "Pride in their port, defiance in their eye, I see the lords of human kind pass by." onus probandi
 SIR WILLIAM FRASER  said, that he had been a Member of the Committee, and
 1622
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  proposed the addition of the following words to the end of the Bill, "or in Ireland, in any Court of Common Law, in the name of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners."
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, this was a Question of some importance to the public service, and without communication with the heads of Departments he was unable to answer the Question of the hon. Gentleman.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The position of that treaty is like the position of any other treaty, the conditions of which have been found practically not to be capable of being strictly enforced. All the contracting parties to that treaty have been sharing in negotiations, the object of which was to modify it. It is perfectly competent for those who make a treaty, if after the lapse of time its conditions are not applicable to existing circumstances, to agree to a modification of that treaty; and that was the result of the Conferences which were lately held in London. The position of this treaty is, therefore, like that of any other treaty in which the parties who signed it are willing by common consent to make some modification.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : No communication has been made of that nature
 1624
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he did not reproach the hon. Gentleman with not knowing the contents of the document referred to and laid on the table of the House last year. What he meant was, that the hon. Gentleman having been in the Foreign Office must have known the general conduct of the Brazilian Government in respect to the  emancipados
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Not altogether.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, while the hon. Gentleman recommends mildness of language—of which he is so great a master—he has not himself used the mildest language in discussing this subject; but it is my intention rather to follow his precepts than to imitate his example. The hon. Gentleman says I am a great hand at denying. I think I may retort upon him that he is a great hand at asserting. I know—every body knows—the source
 1637 1638 emancipados.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Yes.
 MR. PEEL  said, that in the absence of the Secretary of State for the Colonies, and also of the Under Secretary, it was difficult to give the hon. Baronet the information for which he asked. His (Mr. Peel's) recollection of the particular item was, that it was an expenditure which had already been incurred. Money was advanced out of the Treasury chest during the last year which had been repaid from the Vote. That had necessarily caused an excess on the Vote, which had now to be made good. The Governors of colonies were not permitted, except in extreme cases, to pay advances out of the Treasury chest. In emergencies, however, they had authority under the standing regulations to obtain that money.
 MR. PEEL  replied that there was no standard of pay and classification in the Public Service which could be applied to all offices indiscriminately without reference to the nature and the responsibility of the duties to be performed. The practice was to grant to each office a number of clerks and rates of pay, which were considered adequate to obtain an efficient body of servants. He thought it far better that such office should have the salaries of the clerks it required fixed with reference to its own particular requirements rather than with reference to the practice adopted in any other public Department. During the last year the officers of the Customs had memorialised the Treasury for an improvement in their condition; and while in some cases the Lords of the Treasury had not seen their way to comply with the application, in other cases they had not only added to the emoluments of the officers but accelerated their promotion, and he hoped very considerably ameliorated their position.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he thought that
 1703
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he had no wish to abolish the competitive examinations, but he desired to extend to the medical service in India the same advantages as those enjoyed by the Queen's service, and the proposal of the Bill was that any assistant-surgeon in the Queen's army—all of whom had obtained their appointments by competition—might, if he so pleased, volunteer into the Indian army.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, that the deficiency of medical officers in the army was so great that acting assistant-surgeons had lately been introduced—a class of medical officers never before heard of.
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, he thought that the competitive system could only have failed from the standard of examination being too high, or the pay too low, and the Bill did not do anything to effect improvements in either of these directions.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that the position of the officers had been bettered both as to rank and pay.
 COLONEL SYKES  complained that many of the Natives of India who were in every respect well qualified for the posts were prevented from entering the service from the prejudice which existed against the colour of their skins.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he regarded the Bill as substituting the old system of patronage for the competitive examination, which had been found to work so admirably, and he should therefore move that the House report Progress.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, he did not see how the difficulty in filling up the vacancies in the Queen's army would be remedied by allowing officers to volunteer into the Indian service.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he would consent to insert a proviso in the Bill enacting that all the regulations referring to the appointment of medical officers should be submitted to Parliament.
 MR. COLLINS  said, he thought that no action should be taken upon the regulations until they had been before the House one month.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he could not agree to the proposition of the hon.
 1704
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he proposed to submit the regulations to Parliament within fourteen days after they were made, provided Parliament were sitting, and if not, within fourteen days after the next meeting of Parliament.
 MR. HENNESSY  complained that the majority of those who had heard the discussion had voted with him, but that his Amendment had been lost in consequence of a number of hon. Members having come down from the Committee rooms. The
 1705
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he would stand by his Motion.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON,  in reply, said, a despatch had been received from General Brown at Hong Kong, stating that a requisition had arrived from Sir Rutherford Alcock for the remaining companies of the 2nd battalion of the 20th regiment, then stationed at Hong Kong, to be sent to him at Yokohama. General Brown said that the requisition would be complied with as soon as transports could be obtained.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that Sir Rutherford Alcock spoke only in general terms of the state of affairs at present existing in Japan.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : Six companies.
 LORD NAAS  said, he would beg to give notice that on the Motion for Adjournment next Friday, he would call the attention of the House to this expedition to Japan, and ask the Government what, is the precise object in view?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he could not speak exactly as to the number of men, but he believed that there were two companies already at Yokohama, and the remainder of the troops would be six companies, or probably about 800 men.
 MR. MAGUIRE*  rose to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the position of the paper manufacture of Great Britain and Ireland with respect to foreign taxation. A great and grievous wrong had, he said, been done by the Government and Parliament to an important branch of British industry, and that industry now appealed through him to the Government and to Parliament for consideration, and, if possible, for redress. The importance of the interest which he represented might be indicated by a few facts and figures. The capital embarked in the paper trade was no less than £7,000,000; it employed directly or indirectly about 100,000 persons, and at least 200,000 persons were, through the workmen and their families, dependent on its continuance and prosperity. If he judged of the wages by the annual production of the trade, he found that from £1,000,000 to £1,500,000 was diffused throughout the rural districts of the country in wages to operatives. Such, then, was the trade which had been sacrificed, not to free trade, but to the mere claptrap-cry of free trade, and, indeed, to what seemed to be rather exceptional and aggressive protection than to real free trade. In the year
 1712 d. d. s. s.; s.; s.; s. d. 1713 "We should not merely stimulate the process of massing people in the great centres of industry, but should create a demand for labour all over the country. Where there are streams, villages, pure air, and tolerable access, there are the places where the paper manufacture tends to establish itself. I want to see, and I do not despair of seeing, these village mills spring up again and flourish." 1714 "I am bound to say that we have never lost sight of the producer in the great changes of the last twenty years. We know Sir Robert Peel held that before we exposed the manufacturers of this country to competition with other nations, we should relieve them from every disadvantage with respect to the articles they require for their raw materials." 1715 "The French Government have made known to us that they will not, if it is our desire, press upon us the immediate fulfilment of the stipulation in regard to paper."—[3  Hansard, "It is true humanity to let a man loose from being the victim of his own groundless alarms."—[ Ibid. 1716 "That, under the circumstances under which the British manufacturer was placed, the most disastrous consequences would ensue, unless some steps were speedily taken to place him on terms of fair competition with those of the Continent. That the removal of the Excise duty will not place the English manufacturer in a position of equity with his Continental rivals so long as the export duties on rags remain in force. That the Committee therefore recommend that the British Government should continue strenuous exertions to effect the removal of all restrictions upon the exports of all paper makers' materials." 1717 "His statement is this:—His mill [the mill of this gentleman or the company to which he belonged] is almost a new one. For the four months ending the 31st of October, 1863, he found that he made his paper at a cost of £57 per ton, and that commodity, made at such a cost, did not pay him. He did not complain; he joined in no agitation for the reimposition of the paper duty, or for other purposes, equally unattainable; but he and his partners set themselves to work to see what could be done by improvements in the processes of manufacture and by the more skilful and economical use of chemical agents, so essential in the manufacture of paper. The results, as they have been told me, were surprising indeed. In October, 1863, the firm had produced paper, as I have said, at a cost of £57 per ton; in December they produced at a cost of only £47, and at the present moment they were producing at a cost of £39 per ton; and this gentleman declares to me that the article now produced is better than what he produced last summer for £57 per ton. For my own part I cannot say I believe that the condition of the paper trade essentially depends upon the laws of foreign countries with regard to the export of rags. Those laws, no doubt, form an element, and no unimportant element, in the case of the paper makers, but I am convinced they would be ill-advised if they were taught to depend upon anything but their own energies."—[3  Hansard, 1718 s. 1719 "The Directors in presenting their Report for the half-year ending December 31, 1863, beg to state that, although in reference to the statement of accounts there appears to be a considerable loss in the working of your concern, yet, at the same time, the shareholders must bear in mind the increasing price of materials, without a corresponding increase in the price of paper, and which has necessarily been a cause of the amount of loss during the past half-year." s. d., s, d., s. d. 1720 Gazette, "Besides paper, we were the largest millboard makers in the—of England, but in consequence of the free import of foreign millboards, while the foreign duty was kept on materials, we have been driven completely out of the market, so that this year we have not made a sheet. The foreign boards are much inferior to our make, but our customers say they cannot give our price when they can make the foreign boards answer the purpose at about half the price. To show that we are not alone in this department, we have just had a letter from a firm who made millboards, offering us their whole stock of utensils. Our net profits, after deducting interest on capital employed, were, in 1859, £1,000; capital employed, £17,000. During the next two years—in consequence of Mr. Gladstone's high eulogiums and our own expectations of the future prosperity of the paper trade, to be caused by the extra demand consequent on the abolition of the Excise duty—we could only work part of our own mill, owing to our making considerable alterations and additions in the building and machinery, so that our profits were necessarily smaller. When at full work with our extra new machinery and buildings we had this result: In 1861–2, profits, £40, capital employed, £31,000; 1862–3, loss, £1,375, 8 s. d. 1721 "I am very sorry to have to mention that my own mill, which I have had for thirty-nine years, is closed. My reason for closing it is, the utter impossibility of making a profit while foreign paper is allowed to be sent to this country, free of all restrictions, to compete with ours. My mill, which was engaged in the manufacture of printing papers, and upon which I had only just laid out £5,000, has been closed three years, and I have sustained a great loss thereby. I am sorry for the poor people I was compelled to dismiss, for they had very hard work to get occupation, and the trades people here suffered through the closing of the mill. You will be sorry to learn that the men at—mill are under notice to leave. The proprietors find it useless to keep on, foreign paper driving them out of the market. I hope that the Government will really do us justice. Three years must surely be a sufficient time to show that the Government measure respecting our trade has totally failed, and that it is exceedingly unjust and impolitic that our property should be sacrificed and many driven to a state of absolute ruin." "At the beginning of last year I found trade exceedingly bad, and I determined to stop one of my mills for a time (finding other employment for my principal hands); and during a stoppage of four months I had the mill put into thorough repair, introducing several modern improvements to economize labour, facilitate the process, and generally to cheapen the production, and as a practical man, I am justified in saying these objects were carried out. I then started the mill again, and up to the end of the year—eight months—I made weekly an increased quantity of better paper, and, therefore, cheapened the production; but my eight months' balance showed a loss of £88. In bringing out that result I have carried to capital account all new machinery and improvements that cannot fairly be placed to working expenses. Now, the entire cause of this ruinous state of things is the high price I have to pay for material, and the low price I am compelled to sell my manufacture at. It is my intention to persevere for another year, in the hope that justice will be done us by the Government; if not, I will have no alternative but close the mill and discharge the workpeople. The paper I have made is for the cheap press." "This is a brief statement of my case:—In the year 1882 my actual loss was £100; the year ending 1803 it was £130. The current year, I fear, will be much worse than the two preceding
 1722 "Mine is a very small concern, but it has been all that I wanted up to the time of the repeal of the duty; since then I have not been able to live by my trade, and if something is not done at once to put us in a fair position with the makers on the Continent I must give up altogether, as the little capital I had to work with is gone." "Finding in the practical working of paper making under the removal of the home duty and the continuance of the foreign duty on rags that a most severe loss would attend our continuance of the manufacture, we relinquish the trade, submitting to the loss entailed upon premises and plant rather than carry it on to our ruin." "In reply to the inclosed letter, received this morning, I beg to say that I have given up the paper trade for the last twelve months, as the trade was so bad it was not worth my notice." "I am one that is nearly ruined with what Mr. Cobden calls 'free trade.' I only want free trade, if I knew how to get it. My mill is now standing, and has been so ten days. I cannot make printing paper pay, and in a new mill, too, only four years built, to be ready by the time the duty was taken off; but I expected free trade in rags as well as in paper. I did not expect all on one side. The old mill was paying here five years ago, but the duty on rags cost me £120 per week more than the same material costs the foreigner, and I have to sell paper against him in this market. The kind I make is now 2¼ d. d. d> d 1723 "That having no fear of the repeal of the duties, they expended in new works from £20,000 to £30,000 'with every newest invention and plant known to the world,' are 'woefully disappointed,' the result being the very opposite of their sanguine anticipations. They now think that 'Free Trade has its limits.'" "They go on to say that 'yielding to the impulse,' they laid out £6,000 in extensions and improvements; no result but disappointment, materials dearer, and prices lower.' Are 'now fairly at a standstill, not knowing how to live.'" "Although not a paper manufacturer I am a sufferer from having paper mill property—namely, two mills unlet, entirely from the unsatisfactory state of the trade. They are eligibly situated both as regards situation for carriage and supply of the purest spring water. I had made all preliminary arrangements with a firm of substance for manufacturing fine paper, but on account of the unsatisfactory state of the law respecting rags they declined embarking in the business." "Without giving names, you are at liberty to state that a (my) paper mill, having therein invested capital to the amount of between £40,000 and £50,000, has for the last twelve months been quite unremunerative—not made one penny of profits—and that the said mills would have been closed in the spring of 1863 had not the proprietors been desirous to prevent some 300 workpeople from being thrown out of employment in the midst of a town whose inhabitants were out
 1724 "… I am a maker of wrapping papers, and, prior to 1861, was kept in full and regular work at fair prices, leaving me a profit at from 10 to 12½ per cent. Since 1861, though using great personal exertion to keep my trade, I have been necessitated to put my mill on half-time, and can with much difficulty, and at unremunerative prices, keep on even at this reduced make. From various causes our material has got scarce and very dear, while competition from home and from abroad has reduced the value of paper. When in London, three weeks ago, an old customer of mine showed me a paper he was buying from a Dutch mill at £19 a ton free in London, This is a sort I used to make in considerable quantity and to profit, but cannot now touch without serious loss, not mere absence of profit. Yet give me free access to some market for material, and I know I could beat the Dutchman in his paper and price by 50 s. "For myself, I have not called out till I was hurt, and that most severely. I do not ask more than full and fair free trade in the material as well as in the paper produced, and I am content to compete with any; with full confidence I can keep my former customers from continuing to go abroad for cheap paper, while I shall employ more hands, and be more prosperous and contented, which at present I am not." "He could not work half-time, or shut for a time, as great loss would be the result. When his loss reaches £2,000 a year he will shut up. On the production of one machine he made some years ago £937. Last year the produce of the same machine sold at a dead loss of £836. The pressure every day becomes worse." "In 1856 they purchased a mill that produced an average of eighteen to twenty tons a week. In 1859 and 1860 had overcome the first difficulties, and were beginning to prosper, but the Repeal of the Customs duty and the retention of the duty on the export of rags were too much to con-
 1725 Gazette. "We were in hopes of being able to dispose of the concern, but had no offer from a purchaser, as no one seems inclined to go into the trade in its present state. We had, therefore, no alternative but to shut down our mill and dismiss our hands, of whom we used to employ about 140. We have closed for about six months, and the sorts of paper we made were 'long elephant' for room paper and printings. Although we had every advantage of cheap labour and an excellent concern, we found ourselves totally unable to compete in the London market with the Belgian and French paper manufactured of rags, bought at a price made artificially so much lower than ours, by the heavy export duties which Foreign Governments impose for the benefit of their own paper makers. Two other paper makers in our neighbourhood gave up the business—one of them having been made a bankrupt. It is most galling to us to be obliged to keep our mill idle, and pay the rent of the water-power, besides losing all benefit from the capital we had expended in buildings and machinery." 1726 1727 plus 1728 1729
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, he thought that no one who had given an unprejudiced attention to the subject would agree with the noble Lord, for if ever a case for inquiry and redress had been made out it was by the temperate and able speech of the hon. Member for Dungarvan. He regretted that only one Irish representative had hitherto spoken a word for the distressed class whose claims had been urged by the hon. Member. The Chancellor of the Exchequer claimed credit for his frankness in dealing with the subject; but he thought he had never heard a case argued with less frankness. The right hon. Gentleman said that the hon. Member was inflicting injury on the paper maker by proclaiming abroad the knowledge of the injury of which he complained. But any injury done by the hon. Member for Dungarvan could not approach to that inflicted by the right hon. Gentleman in showing the foreign paper maker, as he had done that night, how to utilize the complaints of the English paper makers and turn them to the greatest advantage. The great principle of the late Sir Robert Peel, as was admitted by the right hon. Gentleman, was to secure for the people access to the raw material. That was all that was asked for in that case. The right hon. Gentleman said that only one class of paper makers suffered, but all must be more or less injured by the present state of things, and all would be benefited if they could get their rags from other countries on the same terms as the foreigner. The right hon. Gentleman
 1741
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, that whether or not, free trade was the question before them, all parties had admitted that a portion of the paper manufacturing trade was in a suffering condition. He could not understand the argument of the Chancellor of the Exchequer when he said that they must look only to the question as a whole. He maintained that it was their duty to listen to all who had a grievance, especially when the grievance had been caused by the legislation of Parliament. He, therefore, thought it was the bounden duty of the House to take into its serious consideration the complaints of those whose grievances had been so ably detailed by the hon. Member for Dungarvan that evening. In answering that speech, the Chancellor of the Exchequer said the duty of doing so did not properly belong to his own department, and then turned round to the President of the Board of Trade, who, after the arguments which had been advanced on both sides of the House, would, one would have supposed, have spoken on the subject. Instead of taking that course, however, the right hon. Gentleman had in American phrase "skedaddled," omitting to say a single word in defence of his own department. Again, the Chancellor of the Exchequer informed the hon. Member for Dungarvan, towards the close of his speech, that if he had not made so mischievous a statement, calculated, as he said it was, to produce so bad an effect on foreign countries, the Government would in a very few days in all probability have been able to announce that
 1745
 MR. WATKTN  said, that the hon. Gentleman who brought forward the Motion had argued the question as if the raw material out of which English paper was manufactured mainly consisted of foreign rags; and if that were so, there would be a very great deal in what had been said. He was sure, however, that he was not
 1746
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH,  in rising to move an Address for a Commission to inquire into the system of Building Ships of War in this Country and in other countries, and to report what beneficial changes may be made, begged to state that he had been in hopes that some of his gallant Friends connected with the navy, or hon. Members interested in shipping, would have brought forward the question, and he for that reason had delayed taking it up till now. He felt he was hardly competent to give a professional opinion on the matter, yet he believed his Motion would be of use in eliciting a discussion that would prove useful to the service. At that moment we were building ships of various kinds" and the question was, which description would be of most value to the country? He had no desire to censure the Board of Admiralty. No member of that House had a greater respect for the noble Duke at the head of the Admiralty, who carried out his duties in a manner creditable to himself and advantageous to the country, but he was anxious to ascertain whether in the fleet they were constructing they were pursuing the wisest and most economical course. They were now building ships of wood, of iron, partly of wood and partly of iron,
 1750 Warrior 1751 Agincourt, Minotaur, Northumberland, Warrior Black Prince, Achilles Hector, Achilles Valiant, Bellerophon, Valiant, Caledonia, Bellerophon Royal Oak Prince Consort Caledonia Bellerophon? Bellerophon's Caledonia 1752 Warrior La Gloire, Warrior Black Prince Warrior? Warrior Research Enterprise, 1753 terra firma. Rolf Krake, Research, Rolf Krake, Rolf Krake Research Enterprise. Warrior Research Enterprise? Warrior, Warrior 1754 Northumberland, Agincourt, Minotaur. Warrior, Warrior, Bellerophon. Lord Warden. Warrior 1755 1756 Warrior Defence, Achilles, Lord Clyde, Pallas, Vixen Prince Albert Research, 1757 "The space in the battery is so confined that the men have not room to work the guns with that facility that is required. The battery is thirty-three feet in length by thirty-two feet in breadth inside; within this space are four heavy guns, upwards of eighty men, funnel, wheel, hatchway for supplying powder and shell. There is a difficulty in traversing the guns from the broadside to the bow and quarter ports. When the broadside guns were fired with extreme train, foremost ones to the left, after ones to the right, the captains of them could not stand to direct and fire them. These points being of great importance, I have considered it right to bring them before the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty." Warrior, Black Prince,
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he did not object to the class of ships that were built, but he did object that those ships did not appear to be performing the duties which those classes of ships should perform. Where there were ships of the same kind there was not the same armament.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH,  in withdrawing his Motion, said that the discussion which had taken place had been a useful one, and he, therefore, trusted that the House would not blame him for having introduced the subject.
 MR. C. P. BERKELEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, If any account can be given of the sum of £4,000, which has been annually voted for fifty years for the repairs and maintenance of Forts and Establishments on the Gold Coast, which Ports are now reported by Commodore Wilmot to be in a "dilapidated condition, and to require great repairs," very little attention
 1710
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he was not then in a position to answer the question. Perhaps the hon. Gentleman would repeat it on Thursday.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that the French ships spread less canvas than those of the rig of which the right hon. Baronet was complaining.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : No, he was speaking of the  Lord Warden Royal Sovereign Lord Warden Lord Clyde, 1763
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  explained that he did not mean that the  Royal Sovereign
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, his hon. and gallant Friend seemed to think that, according to tonnage, ships should carry a given number of guns. [Sir FREDERIC SMITH: Yes,] The answer to that was, that although fewer guns might be put on board, yet those guns might be of a heavier calibre, and the Admiralty studied not so much the number of guns as the weight of metal. The hon. and gallant Gentleman stated that the  Warrior Warrior Warrior Gloire; Warrior Gloire, Research Enterprise. 1759 Research Enterprise, Warrior Warrior Research Enterprise. Research Enterprise Research 1760 Research Enterprise, Research 1761 "Some days previous to leaving town I visited
 1762 Bellerophon, Lord Warden
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that if he thought the granting of a Commission would have the effect which his hon. and gallant Friend anticipated, he would be the last to object to it. But he thought that the hon. and gallant Gentleman in the course of his able speech had shown that in the first place any Commission that might be appointed would be led into a sea of difficulties, and next, that by the time it had presented its Report, there would have been such alterations and improvements in guns, shot, armour-plating, and all things connected with fighting ships, that it would really be out of date. He had carefully listened to the speech of his hon. and gallant Friend with a view to ascertain whether he could lay down a line for future action. He had told them truly that, of the 27 armour ships we were now constructing, scarcely two, and in no case more than three or four, were
 1758
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he did not see much good in fighting over again battles which had been already fought on a much larger scale; nor did he think it wise to ask for a Committee of this kind unless there were good grounds for believing that the decision to which the House had come, after long debate and minute consideration, had been erroneous. Moreover he did not think that the hon. Gentleman had made out his case. He rested it very much on the failure of a particular company, the prospectus of which he had exhibited to the House. He had, moreover, read letters written in this year, to prove the destitution of the trade. Yet the company, to which he had alluded, had been formed in 1863. This was a year after the change had been made, and nearly two years after the country were pretty well aware that such a change was imminent. The promoters said their object was to "take advantage of the impulse given to the paper manufacture by the new legislation," and that they were about to "commence operations under circumstances peculiarly favourable." This then was the opinion of the paper makers in June, 1863. Had the trade been utterly ruined in one year? The hon. Gentleman said that this company had failed. But they were not merely a company for making paper, but also for manufacturing manure, for which object they had increased their capital and erected large works. With two such different objects they had very little chance of success. The hon. Gentleman was favourable to the removal of the Excise duty, but held that the Customs duties should have been retained in order to prevent foreign competition. But the effect of that would be to put money into the pocket of the British manufacturer at the expense of the consumer, so that the hon. Gentleman was not fighting the battle of the nation, but of a small fraction of the community. When the manufacturers had to pay an Excise duty, as well as the equivalent Customs duty, they admitted (in the prospectus) that "large fortunes had been made. When both Excise and Customs duties had been removed the balance was not disturbed,
 1740
 MR. BLACK  said, he wished distinctly to deny the truth of the assertion that the paper question had been settled according to the principles of free trade. It had been settled according to principles of protection, and protection in its worst form. When there was a duty upon corn, it was argued, and justly argued, that the duty raised the price, not only of the corn which was imported, but of all the corn in the country. And the same was the case with regard to paper. The duty upon rags ranged from £5 to £9 per ton, increasing the price of the manufactured article by 30 or 40 per cent. If the duty was taken off, the whole of that 30 or 40 per cent would not be received by the producer. He would get only the regular trade profit, and the greater portion of the duty would be received by the consumer, who would pay less for his paper. The difference between the tax upon corn and the duty on rags was, that while the produce of the former went into our Exchequer, we allowed the latter to go into that of the foreigner. Some time ago we heard very vehement denunciations of the taxes upon knowledge. What had become of those who were so earnest then now that there was a question of reducing the price of rags? No argument could be founded upon the increase of the exportation of paper from this country. The trade was in a state of depression—manufacturers must exert themselves to find markets wherever they could—and the kinds of goods generally exported were writing papers and account books, which went to our own colonies. The fact was that the increase had only been from 91,958 cwt. in 1861 to 129,326 cwt. in 1862, and 154,910 cwt. in 1863, an increase fully accounted for by the increase of the population and wealth of our colonies; and it must not be overlooked that during the same period our importation of paper had increased by 300 per cent. Then again there were some wealthy manufacturers who made the finest paper, but by and bye the foreign manufacturer would supply himself with the best machinery, and be able to compete with them in that branch of the trade. There were those who seemed to look with great complacency on the position of the paper makers, contending that things would right themselves; but how, he would ask, could they do so? We imposed a heavy weight on the home manufacturer, leaving the foreigner unencumbered, and it was under
 1744
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, that the Government had received information that some Prussian troops had fired upon this mail steamer; but he had not heard that there were any English passengers on board, or that she was landing any passengers. The fact appeared to be that the Prussian troops had mistaken the vessel, and thought she was a Danish vessel carrying troops. But the Swedish Minister had addressed a Note to the Prussian Government on the subject, and they had promised that an inquiry should be made into the case.
 MR. BUXTON : It cannot be a very flourishing company.
 MR. C. TURNER  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether it is the intention of the Government to take into consideration the various Petitions presented to this House by the Customs Employés, with a view to the removal of the grievances complained of by assimilating the pay and classification of the Customs to the pay and classification of the Inland Revenue and other similar Departments of the Public Service?
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS,  in rising to move for leave to bring in a Bill to make provision for distributing the charge of relief of certain classes of poor persons over the metropolis, said, he simply sought by the measure to give effect to the recommendations of a Committee which had arrived at an unanimous conclusion on the subject. The House was familiar with the accounts which so frequently appeared of the wandering poor who paraded the streets of the metropolis at night, and who were sometimes unable to obtain the relief which the law provided, and the Committee inquired very closely into the liability of the parishes to contribute to their support. Upon investigation it seemed that the present law failed in the respect that there was an unfair distribution of charges throughout the several Unions, while there was no doubt of
 1772
 MR. CARDWELL  said, in reply, that a new Government having been formed in Canada by a union between the two parties into which the Assembly was
 1709
 MR. CARDWELL  replied, that the £4,000, which had long been contributed for the purpose stated, had been carried to the receipt side of the financial accounts of the Gold Coast, and formed part of the general revenue of the settlement.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he wished to know, Whether any further inquiry was to be made in regard to Mr. Arnold?
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he would bog to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether Police Constable 244 B, as to whom Mr. Arnold, the Magistrate at Westminster Police Court, publicly stated on two several occasions in the month of May last, that he would not believe him on his oath, was still continued in the Force?
 MR. SURTEES  said, that after the statement made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, which he had heard with much pleasure, he did not think it necessary to offer any remarks upon the question.
 MR. WYLD  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, If Her Majesty's Government have received any information of an attack made by the Prussian troops upon the Norwegian Royal Mail steamer  Viken
 MR. WYLD  said, it was quite a mistake to suppose there were no English passengers on board the steamer. There were several English passengers, and one of them was nearly wounded by a bullet which was fired from the Prussian vessel.
 MR. BLAKE  said, he rose to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether his attention has been called to the fact that, in the month of April last, a lunatic named Alexander Eiffe, committed on the usual certificates to the public and private Lunatic Asylum of Lucan, county of Dublin, was forcibly removed by two bailiffs from thence for debt to Kilmainham Gaol, which caused his death within six weeks after his arrest; and whether he will consult with the Law Officers of the Crown as to the desirability of having such a change made in the Law as would prevent, under similar circumstances, a person from being removed from a Lunatic Asylum to a prison?
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether he has re-considered the statement he made the other night, that there was a convent school in the King's County which had been reported on unfavourably?
 MR. LAIRD  said, that it was hardly advisable to appoint a Commission, as in naval matters changes were made from day to day. After the large sums of money expended upon the navy, however, the House had a right to ask what position the navy was in if the country were now called upon to go to war. The noble Lord had rightly said it was desirable for the Admiralty to turn their attention to the subject of vessels of light draught of water. If we went to war with Russia, France, or America, we had only two armour-cased vessels—the  Research Enterprise Research Enterprise, Enterprise Kearsarge Enterprise Royal Sovereign, 1768 Research. Alabama. Warrior, 1769
 MR. MAGUIRE : The company had not begun then.
 MR. MAGUIRE : Why, it was a now company.
 MR. MAGUIRE,  in reply, said, that the hon. Member for Stockport might have refrained from indulging in terms so offensive to the paper makers, who did not come crawling to that House in  formâ pauperis, 1747 The Times. 1748 1749
 MR. MAGUIRE : I shall be quite satisfied if the Government will state that, at the opening of next Session, they will accede to the appointment of a Committee without one word of discussion.
 MR. MAGUIRE : You first expressed a doubt; but subsequently, when answering questions, you said, "I had a doubt earlier in the evening, but now I have no doubt. I state it as a fact."
 MR. MAGUIRE : I beg the right hon. Gentleman's pardon.
 MR. NORRIS  said, that as the Chancellor of the Exchequer had given a promise of a Committee in the next Session, it would not be necessary for him to detain the House at any length; but owing to the unaccountable silence of the hon. Member for Rochdale (Mr. Cobden), to whom allusion had been made, and who might be said to be the apostle of the policy which had been discussed, he thought it necessary to refer to one or two of the statements of the right hon. Gentleman. The country had been taught to believe, and the hon. Member for Rochdale had laid it down as a maxim, that traders and consumers should be enabled to buy in the cheapest market, and the producers were entitled to open up channels of sale in the dearest markets. That was a sound principle, and he was glad that it pervaded all our legislation in modern times; but that legislation ought not to be exceptionally interfered with. If, however, it were true that the English paper maker had been for a long series of years debarred from access to the raw material, the system was not one of free trade but of protection to the foreigner against the English producer of paper. He was astonished to hear the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer affirm that the number of letters quoted by the hon. Member for Dungarvan did not prove his case. Of those fifty or sixty paper manufacturers some had gone into the Bankruptcy Court, others were working at a considerable loss, others were working half time, and the whole complained that they were making no profit. By the Board of Trade Return of licences it appeared that the whole number of paper manufacturers was not more than 397 or 400. [Mr. MAGUIRE: That is the number of mills.] It thus appeared that one-eighth of the whole
 1742
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  said, he believed the result of such a regulation would be that Colonial Governors could avail themselves of the aid which they could obtain from the Treasury chest whenever they pleased without this country knowing anything of it for two years.
 MR. COBDEN  said, he did not understand how many men were to be sent to Yokohama.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I made the statement from reference to a document in the possession of the House. No information on the subject was given by me as a Minister. The hon. Gentleman has also referred to certain figures which I quoted as supplied to me by a gentleman in the paper trade. Those figures went to show a diminution in the cost of manufacture, which I myself described as surprising; but, when I gave those figures to the House, I stated that they were open to others to examine, because the gentleman had kindly allowed me to make use of his name. I am sure the hon. Gentleman will do me the justice to say I quoted those figures as they were given to me. [Mr. MAGUIRE: Hear!] And that they were not presented on my authority; but I must be permitted to observe that, whether they were good
 1733
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : No, I did not.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : That is an explicit statement, and I will endeavour to meet it in a manner that will, I trust, be satisfactory to the hon. Gentleman. I do not think it right that any pledge should be given as to the particular course to be taken at a future and somewhat distant time, because, in the meantime, circumstances may occur to render such a course unnecessary; but I have distinctly stated that, whether at that time, at this time, or at any other time, the Government have no wish or desire to prevent any inquiry which the House may think fit to direct; and it is in that spirit, next Session, we shall meet the proposal of the hon. Gentleman. And he makes a stipulation—that the Com-
 1731 1732
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the Question of the paper trade has for a considerable time passed out of my hands, and is in the Depart-
 1730
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Is there no such thing in this country as the shares of a company being at 60 per cent discount?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : When did the first sale of shares begin, and at what price? The hon. Gentleman has overlooked the fact that though they might have been at a discount of 60 per cent in May, before then they might have been at a greater discount still.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I never said it was very flourishing. Let the matter be examined on its merits, but I only say that the hon. Gentleman has not disposed of the case made out by those figures. The hon. Gentleman said he had given us a great many facts. I may divide the hon. Gentleman's speech into particular statements in the nature of facts—which I do not question, proceeding as they do from him—and general descriptions of the state of the paper trade; but particular statements of facts are one thing, and general descriptions are another. If I complain of anything in the speech of the hon. Member, it is of his repeated and pertinacious assertions that I have always denied the existence of distress in the paper trade. I will take the liberty of quoting what I really did say in my Financial Statement on this point. The language I then used was this—
 "I am very far from representing that the state of the paper making trade is at present one of the prosperity in which we should all desire to see it, because it is affected—I think and hope for the time only—by very serious drawbacks." 1734 1735 1736 d. 1737 1738
 MR. FERRAND  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he did not communicate with the Mayor of Bradford, two years ago, on the dangerous state of the Doe Park Reservoir, who replied that it had been emptied, and should not be again filled until the embankment was secure; whether Mr. Rawlinson, the Government Inspector, has not reported to the Home Office that "this Reservoir has been full and overflowing several times; on some occasions it has been full, or nearly full, for several successive weeks; and there is a dangerous leak beneath the main embankment, and that the Reservoir is in a dangerous state;" whether he has not also reported that "the bye-wash space should be increased at the several Bradford Reservoirs, and that such floods as occurred in July, 1855, ought to be guarded against in future;" and whether, after this Government Report, and the danger to which hundreds of persons have been exposed by the non-fulfilled pledge of the Mayor of Bradford, it is not the official duty of the Secretary of State for the Home Department to exercise his authority to protect them from danger in future; and whether he will not incur grave responsibility if he fails to do so?
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  asked, Whether the right hon. Gentleman did not think it would be desirable to appoint a Commission, composed of engineers, to inquire into the best mode of constructing reservoirs in future?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had not lost sight of the suggestions which had been made on the subject; but the Government had not come to any decision with respect to it.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that that police constable was still in the force, and that he thought it would be a gross injustice to dismiss him. No reason had been assigned by Mr. Arnold for the opinion he was said to have expressed, and he (Sir George Grey) could see no good ground for that opinion.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he did not think there was any ground for inquiry. He had notified to Mr. Arnold that if he or any other magistrate desired to bring any misconduct on the part of a constable under the notice of the Commissioners, he should enter it in the charge-sheet expressly provided for the purpose.
 SIR GEORGE GREY,  in reply, said, he had communicated with the Mayor of Bradford in March, 1862, with reference to the Doe Park Reservoir, who informed him that the water was let off, and that the Waterworks Committee proposed to examine the reservoir on the next day, accompanied by their engineer; and that every precaution would be taken to secure the safety of the public. He afterwards received the Report of the engineer, who stated the instructions he had given to the contractor as to some alterations, which he trusted would prove entirely effective. The engineer did not say that the reservoir would not again be filled till the embankment was secure, but it was obvious that it could not be so filled until the alterations in progress were completed. No further complaint of this reservoir was made until March in the present year, when Mr. Rawlinson was directed to inspect it. His Report was on the table of the House and could be referred to by any hon. Member. A copy was sent to the Mayor of Bradford. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Ferrand) was mis-
 1707
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to know, whether the Vote for £2,000 for the Ashantee war was merely an estimate, or represented money already expended? He also wished to know in what position the Government stood with regard to the general expenses of the Ashantee war, and more particularly the power lodged in the hands of Governor Pine, of meeting his necessities by a recourse to the Treasury chest. He thought that some more stringent Resolutions ought to be passed to prevent Colonial Governors from resorting to the Treasury chest without the previous sanction of the Government at home.
 SIR JOHN HAY : The noble Lord must be speaking of some other target.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, that though he did not agree with his hon. and gallant Friend as to the expediency of referring this general subject to a Commission, he did not think that the noble Lord had given reasons which would induce the House to reject the Motion. With regard to the  Lord Warden Lord Warden 1764 1765 Royal Sovereign Royal Sovereign Royal Sovereign Royal Sovereign Prince Albert, Research Enterprise, Royal 1766 Sovereign Prince Albert, Rolfe Krake, Research Research 1767
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, the question which had been raised was of the highest importance, but he was sorry that he was obliged so far to differ from his hon. and gallant Friend that he could not be any party to recommending Her Majesty's Government to appoint such a Commission as he had recommended. He was opposed to the appointment of a Commission, both because he would not be a party to any step which would relieve from its proper responsibility the department of the State to which Parliament had intrusted the management of our naval affairs, and also because he felt the unanswerable force of the argument that we were in a state of transition with regard to the subject, that new inventions were being brought forward every day, and when the Commission had made their Report they would probably find that something had been devised which would entirely supersede their recommendation. The only safe course was to leave matters to the responsibility of the Admiralty, in which he was sure that his noble Friend would admit that Parliament had of late years placed great confidence. He had always expressed the opinion that the Admiralty were right in trying any experiments or adopting any course which had a reasonable prospect of success. All that was desired was that they should to the best of their ability adopt all the improve-
 1770 Royal Sovereign Royal Sovereign,
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that that showed the mistake which had been made. Although the  Royal Sovereign Research Rolfe Krake. Rolfe Krake Research Rolfe Krake Research Defence Hector. 1771
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that he was dealing with this as a positive question, and not as a matter of comparison. His complaint was that these vessels would not be effective under canvas. The House had a right to expect that the Admiralty should call to their aid all the greatest talent that they could command, should devote every care to the consideration of this subject, and should boldly and freely try any experiment which held out a reasonable prospect of success. If they would persevere in that course, it would be better to leave these questions to their responsibility, and not to incumber them with inquiries or commissions which could lead to no practical good.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : How many men are going?
 SIR JOHN WALSH  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether he will have any objection to lay upon the table of the House the Despatches recently received from the Governor General of Canada, and the other Governors Of our North American Colonies, relative to the recent Ministerial Changes and the project of a Federal Union of those Colonies; and whether it is his intention, before the close of the Session, to make any statement, or to afford any information to the House on the important legislative crisis which appears to be impending in the constitution of those Colonies?
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, in reply, that as the Lucan Asylum was a private establishment, the Government could not interfere under the circumstances. He would, however, consult with the Law Officers of the Crown, as to whether any steps could be taken on the subject in regard to the future.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that since the hon. Gentleman's question had been last put to him he had looked more carefully into the matter, and had found that the school of which the Inspector had reported unfavourably was situated, not in the county which the hon. Gentleman represented, but in the Queen's County.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he did not think a Commission would be useful. The only way of meeting the difficulty of the case was the reconstruction of the Board of Admiralty itself. He did not dispute the talent of Mr. Reed, the present chief constructor of the navy, but it was not right and proper that the Admiralty should be guided by one mind. The constructor should design the vessels, and submit those designs to practical men, so that any defects, such as were discovered in the  Research,
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, whether it is true that a considerable force of marines was also under orders for Japan?
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, he rose to ask the noble Lord the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether it is the case that a regiment has been ordered from Hong Kong to Japan on the requisition of Sir Rutherford Alcock; and, if so, whether he can explain for what purpose these troops are required?
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, he wished to know whether there is any statement in the despatch as to the object for which the troops are required in Japan?
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  observed that had the discussion come on, he would have been prepared to show that there were grave objections to the Bill, and that the measure could not be adopted without great inconvenience.
 MR. REMINGTON MILLS  said, that the real object of the Bill was very artfully concealed, so as to give it quite a plausible appearance. It would extend to all the grammar schools throughout the country, and would have the effect of compelling pupils to attend the services of the Church of England, even though they were not boarders, but lived with their parents. A new principle was thus introduced into education, and the rights, duties, and responsibility of parents were invaded. Wherever it was possible children ought to attend worship with their parents, and the domestic relations ought to be especially preserved in these sacred matters. Another objection to the Bill was, that it limited the choice of the managers of a school in the appointment of a master, as he must be a man in priest's orders; and, on the other hand, it imposed a new duty on the master which might prevent him from accepting clerical engagements elsewhere. That was an exceedingly inopportune time for bringing forward such a measure, for a Commission was talked of in regard to these schools, and this would naturally form one of the subjects of inquiry. The measure was quite uncalled for, and would do a great deal of harm. It would shut out Dissenters from the schools, give those institutions a narrow sectarian character, and create unhappy associations in the minds of boys between the school where perhaps they had been flogged, and the church in which they worshipped. The Bishops did not want the control that was to be given them by the Bill, and he considered the Bill, if carried, would have an injurious effect upon the schools by excluding large numbers who would not submit to it.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he should also support the Amendment. He protested against the practice of bringing in measures of such importance as the present at the close of the Session, when there was no time to consider them properly, and
 1778
 MR. KINNAIRD  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. NEATE  said, he objected to the Bill. It would have the effect of fastening on many of the schools a more exclusive connection with the Established Church than they now possessed. Great difficulty would arise in working the act in the giving a definition to what schools it was to apply, the schools described being those "incorporated by Her Majesty for the purpose of instruction in religious and useful learning in accordance with the Church of England." He concurred that the multiplication of these chapels would tend to abuse the religious feeling of the people. He would give an instance of the evil effect of the present system on boys, and that evil effect would no doubt increase if the Bill passed. A boy on leaving one of the public schools, took off his hat, and addressing the chapel, said—"Good bye. I have been in you often enough. I'll take care I don't attend another." He thought the daily prayers should be shortened, rather than increased.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, that it was with great regret he rose to announce that he felt compelled to abandon the Bill for that Session. There was a proposition lying at the root of this all-important question, and worthy of the consideration of those who were opposed to the Bill, and that proposition was that every man in the country had a right to
 1774
 MR. HARDCASTLE  said, he should move that the Bill be read a second time that day month. He looked upon the Bill as one introducing an innovation in respect to religious service in collegiate schools all over the country, which was highly objectionable. The hon. Member had spoken of the Bill being applicable to Harrow and Rugby, but if he looked to the interpretation clause he would find that neither Harrow nor Rugby would be affected by the Bill, inasmuch as neither of these schools was incorporated by charter or Act of Parliament—they were private foundations. He believed the real object of the Bill was to enable the masters of the schools known as King Edward Schools to conduct service morning and evening without the presence of the parents, and to administer the Communion without the control of the clergyman of the parish, and so that the parents of the children should have no control over the religious instruction imparted to them. Now, these schools were really established for towns, and not for scholars who were drawn from a distance by the reputation of the head master. At present the children of Dissenters attending these schools were only required to attend church once a day, and the parents might attend, and if any improper instruction were given them they could have it rectified; but if the Bill passed the parents could no longer be present at the service, as one of the provisions was that none but the boys should be present, and thus Dissenters would be practically excluded from the schools. He did not mean to say that under certain circumstances there should not be private chapels in connection with some of the largo schools, but a measure to provide such chapels required great consideration, and ought not to be introduced at the
 1777
 MR. COLLINS  said, he rose to move the second reading of the Bill, which had
 1775 1776
 MR. COLLINS  said, he felt that, under the circumstances, he had no resource but to withdraw the Bill for the Session.
 MR. F. S. POWELL  said, that a sort of phantom fear possessed hon. Gentlemen opposite in regard to this measure. The spirit of the hon. Member for Peterborough
 1779
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he concurred in a great deal that had been said by his hon. Friend the Member for Perth (Mr. Kinnaird) as to the inconvenience of Bills of such importance coming down from the other House so late in the Session. The measure had created considerable, although he believed exaggerated alarm among the Nonconformist members of the community, and more time should be allowed for its consideration. Looking to the importance of the principle, to the nature of some of the details, and to the strong objections urged even by the supporters of the Bill to part of it, he thought that it should be sent to a Select Committee, and, on that understanding, would have been willing to vote for the second reading. It was not at all clear from the second clause what schools were included in the Bill; and alarm was caused by the supposition that it would comprehend all the smaller as
 1780
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether he has any objection to lay upon the table of the House, Copy of the Reports of Captain de Horsey on Her Majesty's Ships  Research and Enterprise
 LORD NAAS  said, in the absence of his hon. Friend (Mr. Seymour Fitzgerald), he would beg to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether a force of Marines has been sent from this country to Japan, of how many men it consists, and when it was despatched from this country?
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, that while he congratulated the right hon. Gentleman on the improved state of India, he at the same time regretted that he had placed himself in such a position as to make it his (Mr. Smith's) duty to find fault. What he found fault with was—that the right hon. Gentleman had pursued the same course this year which he did last year, namely, of delaying his Indian Budget until two days before the Whitebait feast, when, as usual, not more than twenty Members could be got to listen to it. If the House was to take any cognizance whatever of Indian affairs, it was but just that they should have an opportunity of doing so at a time when they were not in an exhausted state, as they undoubtedly were at the end of the Session. The subject should be brought before the House at an early period of the Session. He had likewise to complain that the right hon. Gentleman had not furnished them with the speech of the Finance Minister of India. He could not account for the right hon. Gentleman objecting to furnish the House with that without which the Indian accounts were nothing but a mass of figures. What could the House make of the Exchequer accounts without the explanation of the Chancellor of the Exchequer? When he mooted the question on a former occasion, the right hon. Gentleman said that he might as well be asked for the Chancellor of the Exchequer's speech, as for the statement of the Indian Finance Minister. But there was this difference, that the latter statement was made in India, while the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer was made in that House, and was printed in all the newspapers the next morning. He could see no just ground for withholding from the House that explanation which was given by the Finance Minister of India, and if the right hon. Gentleman should persevere in bringing forward his Indian Budget at the latter end of the Session, and declined to give the House the explanation of the Finance Minister of India accompanying the Indian accounts, he should feel it his duty in the next Session of Parliament to bring the subject under the notice of the House. He would again congratulate the right hon. Gentleman on the improvement which seemed to pervade all classes of Indian society. There had been a great demand for labour, and a great advance in the price of provisions. That was easily accounted for—the demand for labour had been for Indian rail-
 1830 1831
 MR. GRANT DUFF  said, that of all the wonderful political performances ever enacted on this terrestrial globe, the most astounding was the performance of the right hon. Gentleman. It was not merely that the Indian Budget was brought in at the end of the Session, when they were all wearied and jaded, but that they were wearied and jaded from listening not to a speech, for it could not be called a speech, but to a sort of concatenation of broken, interjectional remarks and sentences, jerked out by a Minister to whom Heaven had denied not only the power of lucid statement but almost the gift of articulate speech. ["Oh, oh!"] Assuredly the noble Lord at the head of the Government could find a colleague who, while not inferior to the right hon. Gentleman in administrative ability, might possess the power, he would not say of laying before the House such a statement as that which the Chancellor of
 1848
 MR. WHITE  wished to know if credit had been taken for the £500,000 which it was stated would be repaid to us by New Zealand if the House consented to the Guarantee of Loan Bill now before the House.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, this Bill was the last act of the House ratifying the Resolutious passed in Committee of Supply; and if it was the pleasure of the House, upon a revision of the Votes taken in Supply, to reduce any one of those Votes, he could not say that it would not be competent for the House to take that course.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that he rose to make the explanation which he had promised when the House assented to the second reading. The Bill was the same as that of last year, with the exception of certain small changes in the schedule. The total estimated cost of the works remained unchanged, but it was arrived at in a somewhat different manner. For instance, in the "Sandown Bay defences," £10,000 more was put down this year, chiefly owing to engineering difficulties, arising from the nature of the ground at Fort Bembridge. There would also be an increased expenditure of £15,000 for the works at the Isle of Grain. There was a reduction in the estimates for the Hilsea Lines, in consequence of the manner in which it was now proposed that Portsdown Hill should be fortified. It was now proposed to abandon certain outworks, which would reduce the expenditure by about £20,000, and there would be a saving of £5,000 in the works at Picklecombe. It was not intended to enter into any new work which did not appear in the schedule, but he proposed to ask the House to vote £25,000 for works to the southward of Milford Haven, on the Pembroke station. The estimated cost of the works was £80,000, but no money had been actually asked for until the present year. At Spit-head the contract was renewed last year, and the works had been recommenced. Great progress had been made with the Horse Sand Fort, and it was expected that the basement would be entirely completed and ready for the superstructure next summer. Upon No Man's Land the works were also advancing rapidly, although the basement would not be completed until the end of the year. The works at Spithead would be more expensive than was originally anticipated, as the special Commission appointed to consider the alterations requisite in the original plan for the defence of Spithead had recommended that
 1872
 SIR JOHN HAY  asked, whether it was intended to fortify Pembroke after the Report of the Select Committee recommending the sale of that dockyard?
 SIR MORTON PETO  thought that before the site of the central arsenal was decided upon, the House ought to have an opportunity of expressing an opinion upon it.
 MR. C. P. BERKELEY  complained of the lumping together of the items for the different ports.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  inquired whether any calculation could be given of the number of men which would be required to hold all these fortifications. It was said that 40,000 men would be required for Portsmouth alone, and probably 250,000 for the whole of the proposed works.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that the Resolution of the Committee recommending that Pembroke dockyard should be disposed of was carried by a majority of one only; and even assuming that hereafter that most magnificent dockyard was disposed of, which he trusted would not be the case for a long time, he sincerely hoped the House would not consent to leave one of the most magnificent harbours of the country undefended.
 SIR MORTON PETO  was surprised at the remarks of the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty after the Report
 1873
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, it was not intended this year to ask the House to vote any money for the cite of the central arsenal, but it was fully intended to do so at a future time. There were at present as many works in hand as could be conveniently proceeded with at one time. With regard to Pembroke, he was quite unable to give any opinion as to the propriety of abandoning the dockyard there or not; but even if they did abandon it, it would be expedient to complete the works in progress there, for which the Vote asked this year was required.
 SIR JOHN HAY  thought that the explanation given by the noble Lord respecting Pembroke dockyard was most unsatisfactory. The noble Lord himself was Chairman of the Committee that decided against keeping up that dockyard, and the noble Lord himself suggested the reduction of its size. When the proper time arrived he (Sir John Hay) would certainly move the reduction of the Vote by £35,000, being the amount required for Pembroke dockyard.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, his report had referred only to the small dockyards, but he looked upon Pembroke as a most important one.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  suggested that the reference to the central arsenal should be omitted from the clause.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, it was hardly necessary to strike out the words. The Act remained exactly the same as it had been. Hon. Members ought to accept the assurance of the Government on the subject. As to the estimated cost of the works at Spithead, he was informed that there was no doubt that the whole of the works could be executed for the original sum set down for the three works.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he would consent to the omission of the words from the second clause, but not from the schedule, because the principle had been recommended by the different Committees who had considered the question. The Government had no intention this year to propose to purchase any land, nor could
 1874
 SIR JOHN HAY  proposed to omit Pembroke. He could not consent to the Vote of £35,000 for works at that dockyard.
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, the fortification of Pembroke was as important as any works upon the southern coast.
 MR. KINNAIRD*  said, that the other night the hon. Member for the Elgin Burghs (Mr. Grant Duff) stated that the Church of Scotland did not object to the Bill, and quoted the authority of an eminent member of that Church, Dr. Lee. He (Mr. Kinnaird) would therefore, with the permission of the House, read some portions of a letter addressed by the rev. Doctor to himself. Dr. Lee wrote—
 "I hold the same opinions (substantially) which you have so well expressed regarding the Scottish Episcopal Church Disabilities Bill. My friend Mr. Grant Duff, in alluding to my proceeding in this matter in the General Assembly, quite mistook my position and sentiments. My own opinion of this measure was never any secret. I have always regarded it as a violation of the Articles of Union, and as involving a virtual establishment of the Episcopal Church in Scotland, of which surely the Church of Scotland has reason and right to complain. This Bill reaches much further than its immediate and ostensible object, and it is not on account of its ostensible object that its concocters and promoters chiefly value it. They know well that it will serve for ulterior ends of far greater importance. I believe, however, that the Church of Scotland would hardly have succeeded, however early or strenuous her opposition had been; and the attempt on her part to raise opposition now would probably result only in injury to ourselves. The Bill seems to be on the eve of passing the Commons. I cannot help expressing my wonder that no Scotch Member except yourself has taken the ground which you have taken. In fact, neither the Church of Scotland nor Presbytery is in any sense represented in Parliament. Most of the Scotch Members appear to know very little more about Scotland than the English Members, and with few exceptions they regard such questions as this through the medium either of Episcopal feelings or of some form of Dissent. There can be no doubt that a large body of the most intelligent of our ministers hold the sentiments you have expressed, and generally speaking the ablest of them hold these sentiments most strongly." "The Church of Scotland would no more think of re-ordaining an Episcopal than a Presbyterian minister. Let the law of the Church of England be rendered such as to permit her Bishops to recognize Presbyterian 'orders,' and one objection to the Bill will be removed. If the Bill pass in its present shape, the members of the Established Church of England will be allowed to acknowledge as ministers those ordained by a particular section of Scottish Dissenters, but not those ordained by the Established Church of Scotland. A more monstrous piece of intolerance it is impossible to imagine perpetrated in this country.… Nothing can be more unjust than the exclusion of Her Majesty's Scottish chaplains from the royal chapels of England, and there being no provision for the maintenance of Presbyterian worship in the British Court and Legislature
 1876 P.S.—I find I have omitted another very serious Presbyterian grievance, which ought to be redressed. Chapels are built with Government money for army stations, and yet chaplains of the Established Church of Scotland holding Her Majesty's Commission are refused admission into them, with the troops under their charge, because these chapels have been consecrated."
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he did not think any blame could fairly be imputed to his right hon. Friend the Secretary for India for not introducing his Budget at an earlier period of the Session when the difficulty of getting in the accounts was taken into consideration. Even if it could be brought forward at an earlier period, he scarcely imagined that the right hon. Gentleman would be able to secure a larger attendance of Members than was usual when Indian Questions were being discussed. The real point to be dealt with was, had India improved of late years? and he must say, after the speech which he had heard from the responsible Minister for the country, that there were the strongest evidences of her material progress. He regretted his right hon. Friend had made no allusion to the enormous duty on salt, than the bringing of which within easier reach of the poorer classes there could be no greater measure of relief. He should not enter into a detail of the great suffering which was occasioned by the existing state
 1832
 MR. C. P. BERKELEY  said, that the Vote referred to in this clause as "a sum of £18,355 for Civil Establishments on the Western Coast of Africa" included an item of £4,000 for the maintenance and repair of forts. Yet it appeared from official Reports that the forts at Cape Coast, Lagos, and other parts of the coast were in confusion and disorder, and in very bad repair. It was stated in a paper which he held in his hand, that if the Ashantees had marched on Lagos a few months ago they might have captured all the forts. As the £4,000 was not applied to the purpose for which it was voted, he begged to move the omission of the item.
 MR. C. P. BERKELEY,  after the discussion which had taken place, would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. C. P. BERKELEY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, If he considers that the officers of long standing and high rank in the Navy are satisfied with the recent distribution of pay, as lately gazetted, by which it appears that their juniors will receive more than themselves; and if he considers that the fact of officers receiving more on the Retired Lists than those who remain on the Active Lists, will act beneficially in inducing officers to seek service; and if, considering the anomalies which have arisen in the various rates of pay, half-pay, retired pay, and reserve pay, Her Majesty's Government will cause any inquiry to be made, either by Royal Commission or otherwise?
 MR. C. P. BERKELEY  said, he would give notice that he should call attention to the subject at the earliest opportunity.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, the Under Secretary for the Colonies had shown that the appropriation clause was drawn conformably with the Estimate, and the hon. Gentleman could not, by the forms of the House, appropriate the £4,000 to any other purpose than that for which it had been voted by the Committee of Supply.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : I regret that I did not sufficiently explain my meaning upon the occasion referred to, and I also regret that the hon. and gallant Gentleman had not then amplified his statement, as in either case this misunderstanding could not have arisen. It was the 300lb. smooth-bore gun to which I referred when I said it had failed to penetrate the  Lord Warden Royal Sovereign.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he fully acquitted his hon. Friend of any intention of making an improper use of the information he had received. He should state that the hon. Gentleman had moved for many Returns as to armour-plating, with statements of dimensions of vessels, and other information. These Returns had been conceded to the hon. Gentleman, but he was bound to say that for granting it he (Lord Clarence Paget) had been blamed by officers of the navy. The hon. Gentleman then asked what was the depth
 1808
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET,  in reply, said, he had heard of no complaints to the effect that the officers of the navy were dissatisfied with the distribution of pay as recently gazetted. With regard to the junior officers receiving more pay than their seniors, that was undoubtedly true, but he had to observe that that was the only way in which officers could be induced to retire from the service, and make room for others more active. That arrangement was, therefore, inseparable from all schemes
 1791
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  stated, in reply, that on the 21st of December last Her Majesty's ship  Conqueror
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET,  in reply, said, he had already stated that Captain de Horsey's Reports upon these two ships were partly favourable and partly unfavourable. They were very voluminous, and were accompanied by various diagrams, so that they could not easily be published. He had further to observe that they were to all intents and purposes confidential Reports from officers to their superiors; and if he were to make a practice of laying Reports of this nature on the table, the Admiralty would never receive papers which were not drawn up with a view to publication.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, he had a Question of considerable importance to bring under the notice of the House, and that he might put himself in order he would conclude with a Motion for adjournment. The subject to which he wished to call attention was one of great magnitude. A very extraordinary proceeding on the part of those who administered the poor relief of the country had been resorted to, in passing the second reading of a Bill yesterday in so hurried a manner that the Bill had not first been printed, and consequently no copy of the Bill was at the time in the hands of hon. Members. The effect of the Bill was to subvert the whole system upon which the administration of the relief of the poor was founded—namely, a combination of the principles of taxation and representation. He had not had time to give notice to the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Poor Law Board of his intention to bring forward the subject; but the right hon.
 1797
 LORD HOTHAM  would bow at once to the decision of the Chair. His object simply was to impress on the noble Viscount the impolicy, on every account, of bringing forward such a Motion at that period of the Session. He begged it to be understood that he could have no hostility to the right hon. Gentleman, his objection applied solely to the proposition itself. He did not know whether he was at liberty to allude to what had transpired within the Committee of which he was a member; but this, he might be allowed to say, that the Members of the Committee were perfectly satisfied that, as far as the right hon. Gentleman was personally concerned, everything had been satisfactorily explained; and he would say, moreover,
 1804
 LORD HOTHAM  said, he regretted very much that the noble Lord had refused to give way in this matter. He entirely agreed with the objection of his hon. Friend on the score of time and usage. Considering the period of the Session—considering that the Appropriation Act had been brought in—connsidering the small attendance they could expect—considering the importance of proposing to rescind a solemn Resolution of the House—and considering how difficult it would be to adduce any instance of such a proposal as that of which the noble Viscount had given notice—being made at such a time and under such circumstances, he did deeply regret the decision of the noble Viscount, and he did sincerely hope he would reconsider his determination. He should be glad to know what was the particular object of the Motion? Was it for the sake of the Department or for the sake of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Lowe?
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, the noble Lord at the head of the Government had only answered one of his Questions—that as to the expedition of Marines to Japan. He would, therefore, ask, Whether the troops were sent to Japan in consequence of a decision of the Cabinet; and also whether the despatch of General Brown would be given before the debate of tomorrow night?
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he wished to know upon whose authority the troops of the Line and Marines have been sent to Japan? If they are sent by the authority of the Cabinet they can state their reasons. If not, they must have been sent by the authority of some subordinate authority. He should like to know whether it is constitutional for anybody to involve the country in war, and whether the Despatch of General Brown will be laid on the table previous to the debate?
 MR. AYRTON  wished to know if it was competent for any hon. Member to bring on any question under the Appropriation Act arising out of the Votes appropriated by the Bill, or whether it was necessary to wait for the particular section of the Act to which the question referred?
 MR. AYRTON  said, he had given notice of his intention to call the attention of the House to the balance of power in Europe,
 1860 1861 1862 1863
 MR. AYRTON  said, with regard to what had been said of the state of the House, he believed these Indian debates followed only the ordinary course of such matters, and if there was any peculiarity in this debate it was to be found in the circumstance that there was an almost entire absence of all the Members connected with the manufacturing districts who had ever taken an interest in the affairs of India. The only two persons present who could be said to represent the manufacturing districts were the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bazley) and the hon. Member for Stockport (Mr. J. B. Smith), and they had expressed themselves as satisfied on the whole with the state of affairs. He attributed the peculiarity to which he had alluded to the circumstance that from repeated discussion they had arrived at a better appreciation of the relations of this country to our Indian Empire, and they felt that the causes of complaint upon which they had formerly dwelt had ceased to exist. They no longer looked for that enormous supply of cotton which they had formerly anticipated, nor did they attribute the deficiency to the causes of which they had so often complained. While regret had been generally expressed that the House had not before it the financial statement delivered by Sir Charles Trevelyan to the Indian Council in the beginning of the financial year, an hon. Gentleman spoke of it disparagingly, and said that it had sent every Member of the Council to sleep, except Sir Charles Trevelyan, who was reading it. He (Mr. Ayrton), on the contrary, had received a copy of that statement, and he must say he considered it as deserving to be spoken of with the utmost respect, and that it reflected the highest credit upon Sir Charles Trevelyan. In former years some gentlemen went out to India with the most inflated ideas of their position; they called themselves Chancellors of the Exchequer, and delivered speeches which were not worthy of being reproduced in this country
 1849 1850 1851
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  trusted that the House would not relax its hold upon its privileges.
 MR. LAYARD  said, it was well known that the Emperor of the French, with great liberality, had removed all restrictions upon British subjects travelling in France. He had never heard any complaints of the nature mentioned by the hon. Gentleman. French  visés bonâ fide
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, that  The British and Foreign State Papers 1792
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, if there had been any doubt as to the appropriation of the sum in Committee of Supply the objection would have been valid.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, he had no idea the noble Lord (Lord Robert Montagu) would have taken that opportunity of stating his views regarding this Bill. He had stated, in reply to a Question put by the hon. Member for White-
 1801 1802
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  was very much obliged for the views which had been expressed on this subject by hon. Gentlemen who had spoken in the debate, and the kind expressions which had been used towards himself. It had been stated by the hon. and gallant Gentleman (Sir James Elphinstone) that the Indian Budget had been postponed, as a dodge on his part, till so late a period that he might be enabled to make what sort of statement he pleased. Now, the real facts of the case were these—till he became President of the Board of Control no Indian Budget was ever laid before the House, and no more information about the affairs of India was placed before the House than of any part of the world with which we had no connection. He could therefore hardly be accused with justice of wishing to keep the House in ignorance of Indian affairs. But how much earlier could he make his statement? The accounts on the table, up to the end of April, 1863, were made up in India in March and April, 1864. The regular Estimates for 1863–4 were made
 1852 1853 ad valorem, 1854 1855
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, no alteration in the position of Singapore was intended; but questions had been raised by the Singapore Chamber of Commerce as to harbourmasters, and also as to moorings, and it was stated that no objection would be made to the levying of some small duty for the purpose of defraying any expenditure for these purposes. He believed that he had noticed all the points that had been raised, and had only further to thank the Committee for the patient attention they had given to his statement, and to thank hon. Members for the suggestions which they had made, and which he could assure them should receive his most careful attention.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he would communicate with the Government of India upon that subject, but he would remark that, even if he were enabled to bring forward the accounts earlier in the Session, he should not be able to make his statement earlier without interfering with the English business. The accounts before the Com-
 1856
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  admitted that the hon. Gentleman was better acquainted with the subject than himself, but he had spoken of the delay of arranging all the local accounts at Calcutta before reaching this country.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that if
 1857
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that measures were being taken to consolidate various treasuries, which were now unnecessarily multiplied.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : Sir, when I had the honour of addressing the House this time last year upon the subject of Indian finance, I stated that, so far as it was possible to judge, the experience of the preceding year had fully verified the predictions which I had ventured to utter in the year 1859, that, in three or four years' time, we should witness the restoration of our Indian finances to a prosperous condition. I am now happy to say that the experience of another year does but confirm that opinion. I was told at the time I uttered those predictions, that the hopes which I was holding out were entirely fallacious; but I am glad to say that the course of events has proved that I was not mistaken. In the third year from 1859—namely, in the year ending the 30th of April, 1862, the equilibrium of the Indian revenue and expenditure was so nearly restored, that on a revenue and
 1809
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : It was held in March last year. I claim no credit to myself for what has been done, for although I have received the expression of these thanks, it is not to me, but to the Sovereign and people of this country that the thanks of the people of India are due. Theirs has been the determination to pursue this policy. I have only been the hand to carry it out, and I feel convinced that this country will reap the fruits of this wise and beneficent policy long after I have ceased to take any part in Indian affairs. The right hon. Gentleman concluded by moving the following Resolutions:—
 
 1. That the total net Revenues of the Territories and Departments under the immediate control of the Government of India for the year ended the 30th day of April, 1863, amounted to £3,481,927 sterling, and the Charges thereof, for the same period, other than Military Charges, amounted to £3,040,501 sterling. 2. That the total net Revenues of the Bengal Presidency, for the year ended the 30th day of April, 1868, amounted to £11,755,377 sterling, and the Charges thereof, for the same period, other than Military Charges, amounted to £2,060,713 sterling. 3. That the total net Revenues of the North Western Provinces, for the year ended the 30th day of April, 1863, amounted to £5,162,401 sterling, and the Charges thereof, for the same period, other than Military Charges, amounted to £1,497,179 sterling. 4. That the total net Revenues of the Punjab, for the year ended the 30th day of April, 1863, amounted to £2,612,517 sterling, and the Charges thereof, for the same period, other than Military Charges, amounted to £1,192,674 sterling. 5. That the total net Revenues of the Territories and Departments under the immediate control of the Government of India of the Bengal Presidency, of the North Western Provinces, and of the Punjab, together for the year ended the 30th day of April, 1863, amounted to £23,012,222 sterling, and the Charges thereupon, including the Military Charges, amounted to £14,753,114 sterling, leaving a surplus available for the general Charges of India, of £8,259,108 sterling. 6. That the total net Revenues of the Madras Presidency (Fort Saint George), for the year ended the 30th day of April, 1863, amounted to £5,819,048 sterling, and the net Charges thereof, for the same period, amounted to £5,383,285 sterling, leaving a surplus available for the above Presidency, for the general Charges of India, of £435,763 sterling. 7. That the total net Revenues of the Bombay Presidency, for the year ended the 30th day of
 1825 8.—That the total net Revenues of the several Presidences, for the year ended the 30th day of April, 1863, amounted to £36,662,867 sterling, and the Charges thereof amounted to £24,968,240 sterling, leaving a surplus Revenue of £11,694,627 sterling. 9.—That the Interest on the Registered Debt of India, paid in the year ended the 30th day of April, 1863, amounted to £3,351,680 sterling, and the Charges defrayed in England, on account of the Indian Territory, in the same period, including Guaranteed Interest on the Capital of Railway and other Companies, after deducting net Traffic Receipts of Railways, amounted to £6,515,601 sterling, leaving a surplus of Indian Income for the year ended as aforesaid, after defraying the above Interest and Charges, of £1,827,346 sterling.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : I am not quite sure.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : From the 1st of May, 1862, to the 30th of April, 1864. I stated last year that, in conse-
 1810 1811 1812 ad valorem. 1813 1814 "In 1859 one could buy for a rupee 810 tolas of rice in Ahmednugur; in 1863, 660 tolas; and in the same year in Dharwar, a cotton district, only 525 tolas. In 1859 a rupee procured 2,670 tolas of wheat in Ahmednugur; in 1863, 1,080; and in 1863, in Dharwar, 642. In 1859 a rupee procured 3,240 tolas of bajree in Ahmednugur; in 1863, 1,080; and in 1863, in Dharwar, 568. In 1859, a rupee procured 3,960 tolas of jowaree; in 1863, 1,260; and in 1863, in Dharwar, 595. Again, in 1859, a rupee would fetch 2,760 tolas of grain in Ahmednugur; in 1863, 1,170; and in 1863, in Dharwar, only 536." 1815 1816 1817 1818 1819 1820 1821 de facto 1822 "The result of all the inquiries I have made from the Native Judges, by whom nearly all original suits are tried, and of whom I have now seen many in different parts of the Lower Provinces, is that the new procedure in working has been successful even above all hope." "As showing how successful the Code of Civil Procedure has been in expediting the administration of justice, it may be mentioned that in a Court of Small Causes in the North Western Provinces, established under the provisions of Act XLII., of 1860, the average duration of suits disposed of during the past year was only eight days, including the day on which the plaint was filed. Under the old system of procedure the average would probably have been between two and three months." 1823 "That this meeting desires to record their high sense of gratitude for the wise and beneficent policy which has distinguished the administration and control of Indian affairs for the last five years (by Sir Charles Wood), a policy which has nobly sustained the authority and dignity of Her Majesty's Government in her Indian dominions; which has strengthened by new bonds of attach-
 1824
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that was the estimated cost, but in order to cover contingencies a sum of £200,000 had been taken.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE,  speaking from an experience of several years in the Colonial Office, could assure the Committee that it never had been intended that the £4,000 should be applied to the repair of forts.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  repeated that these Estimates were in the same form as they had been for several
 1866
 LORD FERMOY  appealed to the President of the Poor Law Board to reconsider
 1805
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that by the latest intelligence received by the  Hydaspes,
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that the £4,000 was voted for "Forts and Establishments," and went in aid of the revenues of the colony, which amounted to only £7,000.
 MR. CARDWELL  repeated that the Vote had not been taken for the repair of forts.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he was convinced that there was no truth in the imputation that the colonists furnished their enemies in the field with munitions of war. A large portion of the Native population were friendly to the British people; some were hesitating between the two sides, and in only a limited portion of the Island a hostile feeling existed. In that great Island the hostile population could not be prevented by any vigilance on the part of the Government or the commanding officers from obtaining a supply of munitions of war; but it was absurd to suppose that the British population, all of whom in the province of Auckland were in arms for the protection of their homes, were engaged in furnishing materials for their own destruction. If he did not with the hon. Member for Peterborough (Mr. Whalley) attribute the origin of the rebellion to the Roman Catholic priests, neither did he, with the hon. Member for King's County (Mr. Hennessy), attribute it to the brethren of our blood who had settled in the colony. He would not take statements gathered from any accidental source, but he would take the words of the Governor of New Zealand. After describing the murderous outrage in which the war began, the Governor went on to say—
 "Just after these murders, plots were formed by the same people and their adherents in the Lower Waikato for an attack upon the settlement of Auckland. The Natives who formed these plots were all well armed, and had long been preparing themselves for such enterprises. They had drilled their men, dressed them in uniforms, and appointed them to different ranks. What would have been said of the Government which, having the then recent and lamentable example at New Plymouth before its eyes, had hesitated to provide for the safety of the Queen's subjects." "The Manipotos, under their chief Rewi, a powerful and numerous tribe, are a lawless, turbulent set of men, living in a remote and difficult country, and ready to engage in any work of mischief." 1870
 MR. WARNER  hoped the House would take an early opportunity of expressing an opinion against the pernicious practice of guaranteeing colonial loans. It was the colonists who reaped the whole of whatever benefits accrued from such wars as this, while all the burden fell on the mother country.
 MR. HUNT  said, he wished to take that opportunity of making an appeal to the noble Lord at the head of the Government with regard to a Motion which stood on the paper, for rescinding a Resolution of the House relating to the Education Inspectors' Reports. The House would recollect that the Resolution was passed on the 12th of April last, and that in consequence of that Vote of the House, the Vice President of the Committee on Education retired from his office. A Committee was subsequently appointed to inquire into the matter, and it had now presented its Report, which referred to the evidence taken and to an appendix setting forth certain Inspectors' Reports that had been marked, or returned, or otherwise dealt with by the Department. Well, the evidence and the appendix to which the Report referred were not yet in the hands of Members; and in addition to that reason for not now proceeding with the Motion he begged to remark that it would be a most unusual and most objectionable course, at the very end of the Session, when probably there would not be half the number present which passed the Resolution, for the Government to attempt to rescind it. He did not wish now to say a word about the merits of the Motion, and whenever it came on he should be prepared to give it a fair and candid consideration; but as a matter of principle he must enter his protest against that attempt to smuggle through the rescission of a Resolution which had been passed when the House was tolerably full. It might be said that the Department against which the Resolution was directed ought not to be left under the imputation which that Resolution might be supposed to cast upon it till Parliament met again. But he must observe that the Government had not shown any great hurry to remove the stigma from the Department, because the Resolution was passed on the 12th of April, and the Motion for appointing the Committee was not made till one month afterwards. Therefore the Department sat very comfortably under whatever imputation might have been thought to rest upon it for a month; and they might, therefore, very well allow the Motion of which notice was now given to stand over till next Session, when it could be fairly and properly considered. It was a very unusual thing to more to rescind a Resolution of the House. It
 1799
 MR. LYALL,  as a Member of the Poor Law Committee, which had sat for three years, wished to say that the Committee were unanimous in the opinion that the subject of this Bill should be early considered, and its principle carried out. They all knew what great distress occurred last winter in the metropolis, when they heard many harrowing tales respecting the condition of the casual poor; and it was therefore a matter of urgency that this question should be dealt with promptly.
 MR. WHALLEY  thought, that if the Bill passed without further explanation, a very false and unfortunate impression would be produced in the colony. The statement of the Colonial Secretary as to the origin of the war in New Zealand had been perfectly satisfactory—namely, that it had originated not in the land question but owing to the massacre of British subjects yet Member after Member had risen to declare that the war was discreditable to this country. Such declarations would be most distasteful to the colonists, and very discouraging to our soldiers and sailors who were serving in New Zealand. Now he begged to call upon the right hon. Gentleman to state whether he had not reasonable ground to believe that there were causes for this war which had never been openly dwelt upon, and whether the imputations on the colonists were wholly justifiable? He had seen it stated in a New Zealand paper, that wherever Sir George Grey went he traced the war to the machinations of the Roman Catholic priests. Instead of explicitly answering the question which had been addressed to him on this point, the Colonial Secretary met it by an evasion. A writer in a New Zealand newspaper stated that certain flags were captured from the rebels after an engagement, and every one of those flags had upon it a Roman Catholic cross. He looked upon it as a most remarkable circumstance, which ought to be inquired into. Two years ago the head of the Roman Catholics in New Zealand visited France, and took back with him twenty-five of the most advanced pupils of the Jesuit College. He wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether he had any reason to believe that such impressions existed in the colony?
 MR. H. BAILLIE  observed, that the right hon. Gentleman adopted the course of the young woman who when charged with having had a bastard child vindicated herself by saying it was a very small one. The right hon. Gentleman said this was a very small Bill; but it was a very important one, and it was disrespectful to the House—indeed it was treating the House with contempt—to bring forward such a Bill at that period of the Session, when most of those who took an interest in these questions had left town. He trusted the Government would reconsider their decision. The charge was, not that the Bill was read a second time before it was printed, but that in the very last days of the Session—after the Appropriation Bill had been brought in, and when there were very few Members present besides the occupants of the Treasury Bench—a Bill involving such a total change in the constitution of the Poor Law was attempted to be shuffled through the House.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, that as far as he was aware they were not secret papers.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether a publication, called  The British and Foreign State Papers, s.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR : Do those figures appear in any accounts?
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR : What is the date of the meeting?
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he was quite willing to endorse the commendation of the Calcutta meeting. He believed that the confidence of the Natives of India in us had increased in consequence of the policy we had pursued since the Mutiny—a policy which repudiated annexation. He believed that if that policy had been previously adopted we should have had no mutiny at all, and should have been spared all those harrowing scenes which had occurred. As to the finances of India, the House hardly seemed in a position to discuss them. The Estimates had been laid before the Indian public; but the House of Commons knew nothing officially of what the policy of Sir Charles Trevelyan for the next year might be. He trusted that either Sir Charles Trevelyan's speech or a  précis 1826 d. s. s. d. 1827 1828
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, that Sir Charles Trevelyan had made a statement in India of the estimate for next year, and yet the House was kept in ignorance upon the subject until the moment when the right hon. Gentleman spoke, and even then they were only informed of the general items, though the full accounts had been published in India. As to the home charges, that part of the accounts must be sent out from England; and why could it not be laid before the House? He complained also that the accounts which they had contained no column comparing the accounts with those of the previous year. The statement of Sir Charles Trevelyan was an explanation of the estimate of this year.
 MR. SPEAKER : I think the hon. and learned Member will be perfectly in order in proceeding with the notice which stands in his name.
 MR. SPEAKER  would remind the noble Lord that he was now entering upon the subject-matter of a Motion that was fixed for to-morrow.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, it was perfectly competent for an hon. Member to invite the attention of the House to anything which he thought irregular in its course of proceeding; but it would not be regular on a Motion for the adjournment of the House to enter into a discussion of the merits of the Bill which stood for consideration to-morrow.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he could corroborate the statement of the hon. Member that some ecclesiastical influence was at the bottom of these proceedings; for he found that a Bishop in writing to the Governor of New Zealand stated that the most likely way to insure peace was to show a better disposition towards the Natives, whom he described as treating the settlers well. That, however, was a Protestant Bishop. And the Rev. Leonard Williams, in a despatch to the Governor, said that the settlers did not want to see the British troops coming there, and that several of the settlers had gone to Auckland, leaving their wives and children in lonely, unprotected situations, relying with confidence on the character of
 1868
 MR. LAIRD  hoped to be allowed to make a personal Explanation of a circumstance which occurred on Tuesday. In the course of the debate upon the Motion of the hon. and gallant Member for Chatham (Sir Frederic Smith), he had ventured
 1807 The Times, Enterprise, "Mr. LAIRD said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty what is the depth from the deep-load water-line at the fore and aft ends of Her Majesty's ships  Enterprise Research "Lord CLARENCE PAGET: the armour-plates of the  Enterprise Research, Hansard,
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, he had received a copy of the Casual Poor (Metropolis) Bill before ten o'clock yesterday morning, and he confessed he had learnt
 1800
 MR. DILLWYN  thought it right that the opinion of the House should be tested as to whether these Votes were a farce or not.
 MR. COBDEN  said, that this Vote was evidently intended to apply mainly to civil charges.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he desired to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to the effect of the duty imposed on saltpetre. On the assumption that they possessed a monopoly, the Government of India, in 1860, raised the duty to 50 per cent on the value of the article. Previous to that period the export duty had been 3 per cent on the value. The price of saltpetre was 26 s. 1834 1835
 MR. CRAWFORD  said it appeared from the Report of the Sanitary Committee of the City of London that in the twelve months ending September, 1863, not less than 114,000 lbs. of diseased, and 76,000 lbs. of putrid meat, were seize and condemned in the City of London. He therefore would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether Alexander Stewart, who was convicted at the Central Criminal Court in December, 1863, of the offence of sending diseased meat from Scotland to London for sale, and sentenced to the payment of a fine of £50, and imprisonment for the term of twelve calendar months, has been liberated from gaol without payment of the fine; and, if so, that he will state the grounds on which Stewart was so liberated and the fine remitted; and whether applications are not now before the Secretary of State for the Home Department for the remission of punishments and penalties in other similar cases.
 MR. TORRENS  said, that he also would offer his congratulations to the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for India on the very satisfactory statement he had made on that occasion; but he could not help regretting that it should be submitted to their notice at so very late a period of the Session. He was aware that that was occasioned by the period up to which the accounts were made up in India; but he could not see any reason why these accounts should not be closed at the end of December or November instead of April, which would allow the right hon. Gentleman to make his statement about the same time as the Chancellor of the Exchequer was making his statement here. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman would be slow to act on the suggestion of the hon. Member for Windsor (Mr. Vansittart), that the system of opium cultivation in Bengal should be assimilated to that in Malwa and the West of India. He should be sorry to see
 1836
 MR. TORRENS  wanted to know, whether there was any probability of the plan he had suggested being adopted—namely, to close the Indian accounts at an earlier date—say the 31st of December?
 MR. TORRENS  said, the accounts of India were closed on the 30th April—he could not see why they could not be made up to December 31, or to any preceding date, so that they might be laid before Parliament early in the Session. He had great experience himself in relation to those accounts, and could see no obstacle to the plan he suggested.
 MR. GREGSON  said, he had not asked for the repeal of the salt duty, but for the reduction of it.
 MR. GREGSON  said, he quite concurred with the hon. Gentleman that it was desirable that the Indian accounts should be brought down to a later date; and he thought that by the employment of an additional staff at Calcutta that might be done. He also thought it desirable that the accounts should be closed on the 31st December instead of the 30th April. With regard to the opium question he entirely disagreed from the right hon. Gentleman, for he thought that the opium system of Bengal should be assimilated to that of the Western Provinces. He thought the monopoly of the opium trade by the Government of Bengal was injurious and ought to be abolished. He heartily congratulated the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State on the flourishing condition of the Indian revenue, as he had laid it before the House that evening. India had had three prosperous years in succession; and the Indian Treasury had been enabled not only to reduce the debt £8,000,000 but there was £19,000,000 in the Trea-
 1837
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he desired to speak on a point of Order. He had never witnessed the proposal of an Amendment to the Appropriation Bill, and he wished to know from the Chairman whether the Question could be put? When the House had granted £18,000 for a particular purpose, he wished to know whether it could be afterwards reduced to £14,000?
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he was glad to find that the Chancellor of the Exchequer anticipated that the balance would be maintained if no other disturbances should arise. He could not help, however, looking with the greatest alarm at what was going on in New Zealand, and he thought it would well become the Government to make a fuller statement as to the charges which might be expected in case the war should continue.
 MR. T. J. MILLER  said, that at present the Metropolitan Board of Works had had no opportunity of discussing that question; but they were to meet to-morrow, when they would be able to do so, and to give their opinion upon it.
 MR. S. WESTERN  said, he wished to ask, Whether there were any grounds for the apprehensions expressed in the newspapers of another Kaffir war?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER,  as far as he could judge, was in a position to give such an assurance.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that if that sum were received it would go to increase the balance.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : In moving that you, Sir, do now leave the Chair, I wish, with the permission of the House, to take the same course which I adopted last year, and that is to check—which I hope to be able to do in a few words—the figures set down in this Bill by a comparison with those I gave in the financial statement—to show the difference between the Bums estimated and the sums as they actually stand; in fact, to place before the House the rectified statement. Since that statement was made certain changes have taken place in consequence of Supplemental Estimates which it has been found necessary to lay on the table. The charges on account of the Debt and the Consolidated Fund remain as they were. The charge for the Army, too, stands precisely as they were then stated. One of the most important changes is in the charge for the Navy, which in the financial statement was set down at £10,432,000, and is in the Appropriation Bill fixed at £10,708,000—thus making a difference of nearly £280,000. Of that sum about £60,000 was announced by me
 1858 1859
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the figures were taken from the Appropriation Bill as printed, and were therefore authentic.
 MR. COX  observed, that in the Estimate on which the Vote had been moved, the £4,000 was stated to be for the "maintenance of Forts and Establishments."
 MR. COX  said, that if the Resolution for the reduction of the Vote was carried, he apprehended that the hon. Gentleman would then move a clause appropriating the £14,000 according to the Vote.
 MR. COX  said, he would give notice that he should to-morrow ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether he will bring in a Bill to compel magistrates to give their reasons for refusing applications for licences?
 MR. COX  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether his attention has been called to the injustice done by five Magistrates of the county of Middlesex, sitting in Special Sessions, to a Mr. Weston, not only in refusing him a "Gladstone" Wine Licence for the Retreat Tea Gardens at Kentish Town, but also in refusing to give the grounds of their objections when called on so to do by the Counsel of Mr. Weston, to enable him to appeal to Quarter Sessions; and whether he will bring in a Bill next Session making it compulsory on Magistrates refusing applications for such Licences to state their reasons for refusing to grant the same?
 MR. FERRAND  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If it is an illegal act for the owners of a hill reservoir to fill it with water, and keep it full, or nearly full, for several successive weeks, without having had it duly certified by two Magistrates; if so (the Secretary of State having declared that he has no official authority to interfere), whether it would be an illegal act for the inhabitants whose lives are in danger to resist the filling of the reservoir until duly certified, for the purpose of securing their self-preservation, and their homes from destruction?
 MR. FERRAND  said, he wished to know whether there was any power to make the magistrates act?
 MR. GREGORY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether, pending future arrangements, the Royal Academy will be allowed to continue as heretofore?
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that no doubt the financial administration of Indian affairs by the right hon. Gentleman the present Secretary for India, had been surrounded with a bright halo during the last few years, but all the rays of this crown of glory could hardly be said to emanate from the brilliant administration of the right hon. Gentleman, for many of them were traceable to the Government of the East India Company. The right hon. Gentleman boasted of the increase of land revenue; but that was the result of the establishment by the Court of Directors of a permanent system of taxation, which stimulated the Natives to lay out their money to extend their cultivation, with the certainty of themselves reaping the profit. The next statement the right hon. Gentleman made was, that the cash balances were in such a good state as enabled him to pay off a considerable amount of debt; and the hon. Member for Lancaster (Mr. Gregson) talked of the cash balances being £19,000,000. According to Sir Charles Trevelyan's last Report for the years 1863–4, the cash balances instead of being £19,000,000 were only £14,000,000; but in 1857—that was before the Mutiny broke out, and under the administration of the East India Company—they amounted to £15,389,000, and the Indian Government were then enabled to pay off a 5 per cent loan. He understood his right hon. Friend to say that the employment of Natives in judicial administration was a new thing within the last five years. [Sir CHARLES WOOD explained that what he stated was that Natives had for the first time been put into high class judgeships.] He approved that step, but, with respect to the administration of jus-
 1840 1841
 MR. VANSITTART  said, he quite concurred in much that had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who spoke last but one, and whom he was happy to see sitting on the Opposition Benches—an indication he hoped that those on that side of the House might look forward to receiving his valuable support in future. He also concurred with the hon. Member for Poole (Mr. Henry Seymour) in regretting that he had not the advantage of the speech of Sir Charles Trevelyan before him, for he had, he believed, set down his surplus at the modest figure of £20,000. However that might be, he did not entertain any confident expectation of a permanent improvement in the finances of India, while so many reasons existed to disturb the calculations of a Chancellor of the Exchequer. Our surplus this year would have been larger, but for the hastily conceived and badly organized proceedings on the North Western frontier; and the surplus of next year, he believed, would be swallowed up in consequence of that insatiate and insatiable desire to thrust our trade and commerce upon the inhabitants of Bhootan, which had resulted in our envoys being grossly insulted—the probable consequence of which was that war would be carried on in those sterile and mountainous regions, if it had not already been commenced. The taxpayers in this country would find their expenditure largely increased owing to our wars in New Zealand, China, Japan, Ashantee, the Cape of Good Hope, and, he believed, in Bhootan. These two hostile collisions in India might have been avoided if we had followed the plan which we had adopted at Cabul, where our negotiations were conducted through a Native. By this method the prejudices of the Natives were conciliated, and the terms upon which the British Government stood with reference to Cabul were of the most amicable character. It was notorious that even in time of profound peace, our surplus in India depended entirely upon the value of the sales of opium. There appeared to be two systems existing in India in reference to the cultivation of opium. The one was carried on in Bengal, where the Govern-
 1833
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he was not aware of anything to prevent the Royal Academy from continuing its functions pending future arrangements.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the words of the clause were, not that the "magistrates may," but that "the magistrates shall" do such and such things. The Court of Queen's Bench would deal with the magistrates if they wilfully neglected their duty.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, there is no general law to the effect stated by the hon. Gentleman, and I am not aware that in any case it is necessary to obtain the certificate of two magistrates before a reservoir is filled. But there is a clause in some Private Acts authorizing the construction of water works (and it is in the Bradford Waterworks Act), by which, on a representation being made to two justices by the owners or occupiers of any premises liable to be injured, that the embankment of the reservoir is in a dangerous state, such justices, if satisfied on an inquiry of the truth of such representation, shall require the Company within a given time to repair it. And the Act empowers the magistrates to take certain steps in the event of the Company not complying with the order. In this case, therefore, the law has provided an effectual remedy against danger. In answer to the latter part of the question of the hon. Gentleman, I can only say that I should advise him, or those who apprehend danger, to avail themselves of the provisions of the law, instead of taking the law into their own hands.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I find, Sir, that Alexander Stewart, the person referred to, was convicted in November, 1863, for exposing for sale meat unfit for food. An application was made for a mitigation of the sentence, which was refused. But at the end of May, when he had undergone six months of the sentence, the Visiting Justices of Holloway Prison recommended his discharge on medical grounds, sending a certificate from the surgeon stating that his life was in great danger, and that unless soon liberated he would die; upon which he was discharged. The only other case of a similar kind in which, so far as I can ascertain, any application has been
 1793
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, a short statement of this case was placed in my hands a few days ago by the hon. Gentleman. I can only state in answer to his question, what the law as to granting Wine Licences is. By the Act of 1860 (23 &c 24  Vict.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he was present when the right hon. Gentleman made his communication to his hon. Friend the Member for Whitehaven (Mr. Lyall), and he certainly did not understand that the Bill involved the new principle, that the Metropolitan Board of Works should be made an engine for levying the poor rates. He believed there would be found to be a difference of opinion on the Bill when it came to be discussed, and he thought the fullest opportunity should be given for the consideration of so important a proposal.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY : What years?
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  could only say that the war had been a very cheap one; but he presumed that this was the extraordinary expenditure. The whole proceeding was rather in the nature of a blunder, and the war might have been avoided if the proper steps had been taken in the first instance. However, he did hope that we were not going to engage in another war with this wild people, and that we should be able to check the Hill Tribes, leaving their country alone, and thus avoiding the little wars which destroyed the Indian surplus from year to year. Nothing was to be got by attacking them, but they were very good shots and might give our troops a good deal of trouble. This was not the time to enter into the gold currency question, and it had recently been discussed in that House; but with
 1839
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, that at present he was hardly sanguine enough to believe in an Indian surplus; but, however that might be, the Secretary of State would do well to bring forward this question a little earlier in the Session,
 1838
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  thought that £4,000 out of the £18,000 was specifically applicable to the forts.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  thought it was unfortunate that the surplus had all vanished, and hoped that the right hon. Gentleman could give the House some assurance that the revenue was in such a state of buoyancy that there was every reason to expect a fair surplus.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, it was clear that the surplus had more than vanished; but he wished to know whether there were not other charges to be deducted? Had the right hon. Gentleman taken into consideration the Supplemental Estimate for the Army, the charges for the Yeomanry, and the £20,000 for Sir Rowland Hill.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  seconded the Motion. Before the battle of Taranaki it appeared that a large quantity of stores and arms were supplied to the Natives, and he wished to know whether the Secretary for the Colonies could give any information on that subject? It was monstrous that any portion of the colonists should be engaged in such a proceeding.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  gave notice that if the naval service was not placed on the same footing as the military service by next Session he should move the rejection of the Resolution.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  thought that all the right hon. Gentleman had to do was to send out an order that the accounts should be made up to a particular day. With respect to the expenditure for barracks, he hoped attention would be given to that subject, as most of them were unhealthy and even pestilential; and if the Government would take the opinion of such men as Sir Sidney Cotton, they would soon learn where improvements were needed, and whether it would not be possible to do with some 20,000 or 30,000 less Europeans than were now kept in India. Then as to the Paumban Channel, he thought the expenditure of some £200,000 would be a most useful application of money, as it would greatly facilitate trade, and a small duty upon coasters would soon recoup the outlay.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, that they were met together on the 21st of July for the purpose of re-enacting the solemn farce which last year was performed on the 23rd of July. After a Session passed in laborious discussions, a mere fragment of the House of Commons met for the purpose of deliberating upon the Government of more than 200,000,000 of people. A more scandalous sight could not be presented to the British nation than the aspect of the House at that moment. The Government of 200,000,000 of people was confided to their care, and yet the welfare of that enormous population was muttered
 1843 1844 1845 Princess Royal, 1846 1847
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, what he wanted to know was, Whether Singapore was to cease to be a free port, or whether duties were to be levied there by the authority of the Indian Government?
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  thought the House ought not to separate without some remarks being made on the altered position in which this country stood with regard to her engagements in Europe. There were treaties older than 1815, by which we were bound, which might prove highly inconvenient to us if the novel doctrines recently laid down were to be maintained. The hon. and learned Gentleman, however, need not feel much anxiety as to what we should do about the Treaty of 1815, when older and more solemn engagements had within a very recent period been utterly disregarded and set at naught. Within a very few years the noble Lord at the head of the Government had referred to the Treaty of 1720, by which Great Britain guaranteed the possession of Denmark Proper and part of Schleswig as a binding engagement; and in 1848 he appealed to it, as giving England a right to interfere to prevent the invasion of Denmark by Prussia. In that House too he had admitted the obligations of that treaty, and our ambassador at Vienna had been instructed to make representations upon it. And yet, on the 11th of April of the present year, the Foreign Secretary said in the other House that the Government had not made up their minds whether we were bound by it or not; and up to the present time it had never been stated distinctly that we were freed from those obligations. By this time, however, they were pretty well forgotten. If the new doctrine that
 1864
 SIR JOHN HAY : I rise to ask a Question of which I have given private notice to the noble Lord the Secretary of the Admiralty. It will be in the recollection of the House that on a recent occasion I stated that the " Lord Warden Lord Warden
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that the President of the Poor Law Board made his statement with reference to this Bill about two o'clock in the morning, when not fifteen Members were present; but the right hon. Gentleman gave no notice that he intended to hurry the measure through so rapidly as actually to read it a second time before it was printed. [No!] At least he did not get his copy before the second reading. The Bill was one of the greatest importance, and he could not understand why it had been brought in so late in the Session, when it could not possibly receive due consideration. He had a great objection to the Metropolitan Board of Works being mixed up with the relief of the poor.
 MR. BAZLEY  said, he joined with every other Member who had spoken in regretting that the Budget had not been brought forward earlier in the Session. An impression was growing in the public mind that there was a disposition to carry on the Government of India irrespective of the control of Parliament. If, as had been proposed, the accounts for the year were submitted to Parliament at a proper time, very valuable suggestions, no doubt, would be made in the course of the discussions, the result of which might be of great benefit to the Indian Government. He wished, however, he could congratulate the right hon. Gentleman on the services of the Government in regard to the cultivation of cotton in India, and its increased supply; but on the part of his friends in Manchester he had to complain that the Indian Government had interfered in the affairs of the Manchester Cotton Company in such a way that that concern had been reduced to comparative ruin. In describing the prosperity of India, the right hon. Gentleman was wanting in candour in omitting to state
 1842
 SIR WILLIAM FRASER  said, that there never was an occurrence to which the term accidental could more justly be applied than to the deaths of the women which had been referred to. Due notice of the British attack was given; but the Native chiefs miscalculated their strength, and their resistance to our soldiers led to some shells being discharged which killed the women. He hoped the House would pass the Bill. As to the sale of weapons, the letter of the Natives distinctly asserted it.
 SIR WILLIAM FRASER  said, he wished to say a few words in putting the Question of which he had given notice. At this time of the year there were a great many British subjects travelling in France; and it was of great importance that they should know whether or not they were required to carry passports; and, if so, whether the French  visé 1796
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : In answer, in the first place, to the noble Lord the Member for Huntingdonshire (Lord Robert Montagu) who asked, by whose authority it was that troops of the line and marines had been sent to Japan—whether it was or was not by order of the Government?—I have to state that this force was sent on the decision of the Government. We thought it desirable to increase the defensive force on that station. With regard to the observations of the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt), I have to state that I thought it my duty to take the earliest moment, after the Report of the Committee was in the hands of Members, to ask the House to do justice—as I
 1803
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The troops I which were sent from Hong Kong were sent in consequence of a requisition from Sir Rutherford Alcock in Japan, and not in consequence of orders from the Government hero. The troops were sent to Hong Kong in order to be in readiness in case they might be wanted; but the immediate cause of their removal was a requisition from Sir Rutherford Alcock. The noble Lord asks whether the despatch of General Brown will be laid on the table to-morrow in time for the discussion? That I am not able to say. I cannot say whether that despatch by itself is one which should be laid upon the table without other accompanying despatches, but I will inquire.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I am not going to follow my hon. and learned Friend in re-opening the subject of our recent discussions, and I can assure him that I am not going to stand up here as the champion of Prussia. My opinions as to the conduct of Prussia are pretty well known. But I cannot concur with him in thinking that because Prussia has made war on a country not belonging to the German Confederation, that on that account we are released from the engagements contained in the Treaty of Vienna, with regard to that portion of Saxony which was then allotted to Prussia. The two things have nothing whatever to do with each other. It was no part of the Treaty of Vienna, and no part of the guarantee which England—not alone, but with other Powers—gave, that Prussia should remain at peace for ever after that. The mere fact of Prussia having made war under such circumstances as those stated by my hon. Friend—objectionable as her conduct may be in every possible way—cannot release us from the treaty obligations which we contracted in 1815. It is quite true, as the hon. and learned Gentleman stated, that Austria and Prussia have started a principle of nationalities which, in its application, may become exceedingly inconvenient to themselves—more especially to
 1865
 COLONEL SYKES  seconded the Motion. He could not understand the objection which his right hon. Friend entertained towards the clause, because it was almost word for word a portion of the Queen's Proclamation to the people of India. He was glad to find that his right hon. Friend had removed many of the grievances under which the old service had laboured. He thought that the new officers should be grafted upon the old service. He had heard that day that a Native had been appointed to the office of Judge of the High Court of Bombay. That appointment did the right hon. Gentleman great credit, and such a course would do more to conciliate the people of India than the
 1901
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he could not allow the hon. and learned Gentleman to imagine that he was averse to the principle of competitive examination, because he was the first to introduce the principle into this branch of the service, by an Act which be passed in 1853. The hon. and learned Gentleman did not seem to understand what the object of the Bill was. Previous to 1853 assistant-surgeons were appointed by the East India Company, and there was never at that time any deficiency in the supply of able candidates. In 1853 the service was thrown open to competition. The system had not answered as regarded India. In eighteen months—from July, 1859, to December, 1860—there were 90 vacancies and only 72 candidates, of whom only 52 succeeded in passing; so that the supply for eighteen months bad fallen short of the demand by 40. Now, what be proposed by the Bill was to enable the assistant-surgeons of the Queen's army, all of whom obtained their appointments by competition, to volunteer, if they so pleased, into the Indian service. The quotation which the hon. and learned Gentlemen had read from  The Lancet 1902
 COLONEL NORTH  believed that the argument used by the right hon. Baronet would be a very good one if our own army found no difficulty in obtaining medical officers. But, so far from that being the case, the Government had been compelled to extend the age of admission, first to 25, and latterly to 40; and now they had been compelled to introduce a new class of officers, entitled acting assistant surgeons. The failure in the number of the candidates had partly arisen from the hard and unnecessary examinations which the candidates had been compelled to pass. On a former occasion be had been told that the system would be changed, and an increase of pay given to the medical department. He could not see how the deficiency in the Queen's service could be obviated by the assistant surgeons in that service volunteering into the Indian army.
 MR. BRADY  said, that if there was any difficulty respecting the supply of medical officers, it might be easily removed. All that was required was that the profession should be treated with more liberality.
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  had no fear that the right hon. Gentleman would take any steps prejudicial to the principle of competition. The Bill only gave the Secretary for India power to carry out a step which he thought for the benefit of India. He should support the Bill as it stood.
 MR. CARD WELL  replied that he had received a despatch from Vancouver's Island, containing the expression of a desire on the part of the Colony that it should be more or less closely united with British Columbia, for the purpose of saving expense. The answer of British Columbia upon that subject had not yet been received, but he had reason to believe that that answer was not likely to be a favourable one. He did not despair that the Representatives of Vancouver's Island would yet enter into a proper arrangement with the Governor.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON,  in reply, said, he had not received notice of the Question of the hon. Member in sufficient time to enable him to refer to the papers relating to the subject. But he had been informed by a person who had seen the despatch from the Officer commanding the Royal Artillery at the last battle in New Zealand, that it contained no mention of any such occurrence as that stated by the hon. Gentleman. It appeared, on the contrary, that no Armstrong guns had been used by the Royal Artillery upon that occasion. But it was true that one 110-pouuder and two 40-pounder Armstrong guns had been used by the Naval Brigade; and his noble Friend the Secretary to the Admiralty might have received some information upon that subject. A private letter had been received from Sir William Wiseman, who commanded the naval force upon that occasion, and in that letter the performance of those guns was spoken of in the highest terms.
 MR. GRANT DUFF  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether Her Majesty's Government has itself expressed, or allowed Her Majesty's Ambassador at Constantinople to express, either directly or indirectly, any approval of the recent  coup d'état
 MR. WHITE  said, he believed the lucid and admirable speech of the hon. Member
 1944 euthanasia employés 1945
 MR. CORRY  wished to make a few remarks on the subject before the House, in consequence of the observations which had fallen from the hon. Member for Rochdale with reference to the course taken by the Government of Lord Derby in the construction of wooden ships of the line and frigates. The House should bear in mind the state of the question as regarded iron-plated ships at that time. When the Government of Lord Derby succeeded to office not a single armour-plated ship had ever been tried. A vessel of that description— La Gloire 1946 Warrior, Black Prince, The Times, 1947
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, he had never hesitated to express his opinion of the impropriety of carrying the Government manufacturing establishments to their present extent. At the same time he thought that they should be maintained to such an extent that the Government would not be altogether dependent upon private enter prize when any emergency should occur. The whole weight of the argument seemed to be to him on the side of the hon. Member for Rochdale. His hon. Friend had instituted a comparison between the cost of constructing ships in the Government yards and by private contract, and nobody could say that he had overstated his case; and he had also shown that the present system of keeping the accounts was a perfect absurdity. What, then, must the case have been when there was hardly any reckoning at all. His hon. Colleague (Mr. Monsell) had given as a reason for not depending altogether on private manufacturers, that when shells were wanted during the Crimean war the contractors took advantage of the necessity of the occasion by increasing largely their price; but that was not the fault of the contractors—it was the natural consequence of the principle of supply and demand. If a war were to break out to-morrow the Government would be compelled to increase the wages of even their own dockyard labourers, as well as to pay an increased price for the materials. The hon. Member for Pontefract (Mr. Childers), in his defence of the Admiralty, quoted the Report of the Secretary of the United States Navy in support of his views; but it should be recollected that it was the interest of all Government officials to favour their own institutions—and, moreover, the circumstances of the United States were peculiar owing to the suddenness of the emergency, so that he (Colonel Dickson) thought that that part of the hon. Gentleman's arguments fell to the ground. Turning to the clothing establishment at Pimlico, to which he had devoted considerable attention, he found that it had increased to a greater extent
 1954 s. s. d., Himalaya. 1955
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : I shall detain the House for only a short time; but I feel bound to make a few observations in consequence of the hon. Member who brought forward the subject having alluded to me somewhat personally in connection with the question. It seems to me that the hon. Member has selected a rather extraordinary period for bringing this subject under the notice of the House. He has had on the paper for a long time the notice of his intention to call the attention of the House to the great extension of our manufacturing departments. I think his notice points to "recent" great extension in these departments; but I believe that, on reference to the Estimates and accounts for the last ten years, it will appear that this year we have spent less for buildings and machinery, or any extension of these establishments, than in any other year of that period. The hon. Member sat still while the Government were largely increasing their buildings and machinery, and it is only when they have reached a limit which it is not contemplated by any one to extend, he calls attention to the fact that our manufacturing departments have extended. What the hon. Member proposes to do I can scarcely discover. In order to make a  primâ facie 1956 1957 1958 1959 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. s. 1960 1961 1962
 GENERAL PEEL : If I am called upon for my opinion upon the Resolution of the hon. Member for Rochdale, I must express entire agreement with that portion of it which demands that full and satisfactory accounts should be laid annually before the House. This is only what I promised to do when I was in office, and what I fully proposed doing had I remained in office. When, however, the hon. Gentleman says that he has read attentively the evidence given before the Committee, and professes to describe what took place there, I can only say that, if he had not told us he had read the evidence attentively, I could not possibly have believed it. The description he has given of the introduction of the Armstrong gun into the service is quite contrary to the clear statement made before the Committee, and quite contrary to the explanations which I have made in this House so frequently that I am ashamed of repeating them. In 1858, when I came into office, we were the only country in the world that had not got a rifled gun. I at once appointed a Committee to report upon the best rifled gun that was to be had—I did not care whose
 1967 1968
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, he agreed with almost everything that had fallen from the hon. Member for Rochdale. For the efficient defence of the country it was necessary that the interests of the mercantile community should be identified with that of the Government, so that the Government should be able in emergencies to fall back on the vast resources which it afforded. The advantage of a Government manufacturing department was simply as
 1971 1972
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the circumstances of the case had occurred thirty years ago, and that all the persons who could throw light on it, except Mr. Irwin himself, were dead. In the year 1835 Mr. Irwin was twice tried, on the criminal charge of forging a letter from Mr. Johnstone, a revising barrister. The jury believed that the letter was a forgery, and convicted Mr. Irwin. On the second trial Mr. Johnstone was put into the box, and Mr. Irwin did not cross-examine him. Since then Mr. Irwin had
 1977
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Before coming to the questions raised by the hon. Member for Finsbury (Sir Morton Peto), I wish to advert first to the subject of the Armstrong guns. Very strong opinions have been given to-night against Sir William Armstrong's breech-loaders. I have always been very frank on this subject, and I spoke of them as having been unsuccessful at Kagosima. But at the late affair in New Zealand these guns—both the 100-pounders and the 40-pounder—are reported by Sir William Wiseman, a high authority on this point inasmuch as he has commanded the  Excellent 1969 Alabama. 1970 Alabama
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he wished to know, Whether Sir Henry Bulwer has given no approval to the  coup d'état?
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether he will lay on the table before the Prorogation the Despatches from New Zealand not already published; and whether, by the last mail, he has received a copy of a Proclamation on the part of the local Government which threatened the rebels with severe penalties?
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, If he has received a Despatch from the Governor of Vancouver's Island, conveying a Resolution of the Legislature to the effect that the offer of the Imperial Government to transfer to the Colony the Crown Lands did not afford an equivalent for the Civil List asked; if it is true that the Legislature has refused to provide the necessary residence for the Governor; and whether any representations from Vancouver's Island have been made to the Colonial Office respecting the Indenture of 1862, by which the Imperial Government confirmed to the Hudson's Bay Company the appropriations of Lands and Minerals which the Company had made on that Island?
 MR. LAYARD : None whatever.
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, that the arrangement come to at Constantinople in regard to the Principalities received the sanction of all the parties who had to do with the Convention of Paris.
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, that neither the Government nor the British Ambassador at Constantinople had ex-
 1905 coup d'état
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, that the seizure of the Chincha Islands had, no doubt, caused great excitement and demonstrations of sympathy among the other States of South America, and he believed that one or two of these States, including Venezuela, had declared that if these Islands were permanently taken possession of by Spain they were prepared to give material aid to Peru. But the Spanish Government stated they had no intention of retaining the Islands, and that as soon as certain claims which they had upon the Peruvian Government were satisfied, they would restore them to their original owners. He understood that the Republic of Equador had offered the use of the Harbour of Guayaquil to both parties for the purpose of coaling and refitting their vessels.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he was anxious to express his thanks to the hon. Member for Rochdale for having brought forward this Motion, because it was obvious that the enormous extension of the Government establishments was gradually entailing upon the Government and the House the difficulties of monopoly. If the dis-
 1975 1976
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would beg to ask, Whether it was to be understood that the arrangement to which the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs had alluded was entered into between Prince Couza and the Porte alone, I or whether it was referred to the other Powers?
 MR. CARDWELL  replied, that no arrangement had been come to with the Colony of the nature referred to by the hon. Gentleman. Perhaps the House would be interested to know that he had that day received a despatch from the Governor of the Cape, which was to the following effect:—
 "You will be gratified to find that the expectations I had formed of the continuance of tranquillity were well founded. You may rest assured that I will spare no pains to overcome by all legitimate means the feelings of distrust and discontent by which some of the Chiefs appear to be animated. Since I last wrote the Commander of the Forces has arrived in Grahamstown, and agrees with me as to the inexpediency of any advance by the troops."
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that there was no reference in that despatch to the annexation of any new territory, but there was in other papers.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, in reply, that no copy of any Proclamation was enclosed in the latest despatches. A notification had, however, been received which led him to believe that a Proclamation of a different nature from that referred to by the hon. Member, and calculated to satisfy the Natives, was about to be issued. The despatches would be laid on the table as soon as possible.
 MR. WARNER  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, I Whether, since the last war at the Cape of Good Hope, any arrangement has been come to with the Colonial Government as to the expenses of possible future wars; or whether, In the event of war with the Natives, the Imperial Government would be exposed to the same risk now as on former occasions of being compelled to bear the greater part of the burden?
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he wished to call the attention of the House to the case of Mr. O'Malley Irwin, and to submit that it is the duty of Her Majesty's Government to inquire into that case, with a view to the affording of redress to Mr. Irwin, Though the case had occurred thirty years ago, yet if this gentleman had been unjustly treated he considered that it was the bounden duty of the Government to remedy the injustice under which this gentleman had suffered.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he thought the House was much indebted to the hon. Member for Rochdale for the clearness with which he had brought his views on this subject before the House. For himself, having been barely three months in office, it would be presumptuous in him to give a decided opinion either one way or the other on so important and interesting a question, and his only object in rising was to submit a few facts and considerations to the House by way of suggestion to guide them in their decision on it. In regard to the manufacturing establishments in the dockyards, the hon. Member for Rochdale seemed to lay down the principle that we ought to repair and not to manufacture—that we ought to do with regard to the hulls of our ships what since the Committee of 1848 had been the rule with marine engines—purchase them new from private makers, and only repair them. Before coming to a conclusion on that point it would be well to see what actually was
 1948 Warrior, 1949 Warrior Black Prince, Achilles, Hector, Royal Oak Prince Consort. Royal Oak, Prince Consort, Valiant Prince Albert Minotaur Agincourt 1950 "In order that we may have at our command a navy which shall fulfil these unexampled and exacting conditions of efficiency, a commensurate public establishment for its construction and preparation is indispensable. A navy yard on a large scale, and in many respects of a new plan, amply furnished with all the proper facilities and aids for its operations, where machinery for steamers can be manufactured, iron vessels constructed, iron armature made and tested, and repairs of every description executed, is an absolute necessity. In view of these facts I had the honour on successive occasions to urge this matter upon the attention of the last Congress, and the omission of that body to take even the preliminary measures towards the procurement and formation of such an establishment is a misfortune which the country is now made to feel. The limited facilities for manufacturing and repairing steam machinery at the public navy yards render them totally inadequate to meet a moiety of the demands upon them. Even with the aid of private establishments, no inconsiderable portion of our naval force is waiting, unemployed, and detained from active service to the injury of the country. Proposals were issued for an iron-clad ship of the largest class (under the authority contained in the Appropriation Bills), but the cost, as shown by the propositions received for a ship of the necessary magnitude, was so great that it was deemed advisable to enter into no contract involving so large an expenditure, except by the express sanction of Congress. There are no parties in this country fully prepared to build iron vessels of the magnitude and description proposed, and the present high prices of material and labour unavoidably enhanced the cost. The Government itself is unprepared to execute any such work, having no suitable yard and establishment, and is consequently wholly in the hands of private parties to demand what they think proper, and prescribe their own terms. On former and repeated occasions, and elsewhere in this Report, the Department has fully expressed its opinion of this policy, and the necessity why the Government should be prepared to build iron vessels and the necessary machinery of the largest class. Prompt and judicious action by the legislative branch of the Government upon this subject is, in my judgment, urgently needed, and will, when it shall have been
 1951 "I subjoin a schedule of iron-clad gunboats of light draught in the process of construction, which, in anticipation of the state of things which now exists, were designed for service in the sounds and rivers of North Carolina, and the shallow interior waters elsewhere on the coast. These boats were contracted for as soon as it was possible to do so after the necessary appropriations for their construction were made by Congress, and it will be seen by the data given that most of them were to have been completed last year—some of them as early as September. Not one has yet been delivered, and it will be some weeks before one can be made available for service. I have felt it my duty on repeated occasions to call the attention of Congress to the necessities for a yard and establishment where iron and armoured vessels could be constructed for the Government, but the preliminary steps for such an establishment have not yet beer, taken. In the meantime, the Department and the Government are wholly dependent on contractors, who, if they have the will, do not possess the ability, to furnish these vessels promptly. Conflicting local controversies in regard to the place which shall be selected and benefited by the proposed important national establishment for an iron navy, such as the present and future necessities of the Government require, have contributed to delay action on this important subject. Having in view economy as well as the public necessities, I have at no time recommended that the number of our navy-yards should be increased on the Atlantic coast, but it is my deliberate opinion that no time should be wasted in establishing at a proper place a suitable yard where iron ships can be made and repaired. We feel its necessity in the emergency which has called forth the present inquiry, and not a single contractor is able to meet his engagements, even for one of this class of small vessels. In the event of a foreign war with one or more of the principal maritime Powers our condition would be most unfortunate, with no Government establishment for the construction or repair of armoured vessels such as modern science and skill are introducing. The omission to make provision for such an establishment, on which the Government can always rely, is to be regretted. Had we such an establishment at this time, I should not have been compelled to make this exhibit of a want of light-draught armour-boats for such an exigency as that which now exists in the waters of North Carolina, nor is it probable that the exigency would have occurred." 1952 1953
 MR. CHILDERS  said, what he referred to was that a great consideration was that the Government was the best customer.
 MR. CHILDERS  explained that what he had said was that in laying down a rule as to purchasing or manufacturing, one element for consideration was whether the Government was the only customer.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member has moved an Amendment, and cannot move another.
 MR. SPEAKER  reminded the hon. Gentleman that he had already spoken.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he believed that this was a case in which the grossest injustice had been done. [The hon. Member read several documents in support of the Motion.]
 MR. LAIRD  said, that having sat for two years on the Ordnance Committee, he was surprised to hear the statement of the noble Marquess (the Marquess of Hartington), because it came out before the Committee that the members of the Government were strongly of opinion that the
 1973 Alabama Kearsarge 1974 Achilles
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether he is aware if the seizure of the Chincha Islands by Spain has led to demonstrations of sympathy, or offers of material aid, in favour of Peru, on the part of any and what other States of South America; and if he is aware whether the Republic of Equador has proffered the use of the Harbour of Gua-
 1903
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, If, during the recent conflict in New Zealand, the Troops were not exposed to considerable danger during the bombardment by the dropping of the lead coating of the Armstrong shells?
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, that he would on Monday put a Question upon that subject to the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty.
 MR. COBDEN * "The Committee are not disposed to place implicit reliance on the arguments which have been urged by some public departments against contracts by competition, and in favour of work by themselves. The latter plan occasions the employment of a great many officers, clerks, artificers, and workmen, and not only adds to the patronage, but to the appearance of the impor-
 1908 1909 1910 1911 Arabian Nights. 1912 naïveté 1913 "The whole science of gunnery is in a transition state, and when I was this year asked what gun I approved for the navy I was obliged to say that I really did not know." "The Armstrong 12-pounders, although stated by some of the witnesses to be too complicated a weapon for service, are generally approved;" but that "the preponderance of opinion seems to be against any breech-loading system for larger guns." 1914 "The result is that the largest and most costly fleet of the world, intrusted with the security of the largest maritime empire, has long been presented to all but England's eyes without a gun fit for the special warfare of the day, and with special guns fit for no warfare whatever." The Times 1915 1916 1917 1918 1919 s. d. s. s. d. s. d. s. d., s. d. s. d. s. Gazette. 1920 Gazette. 1921 Laughter. Laughter. 1922 "You have given the Committee the actual cost to the Government of the clothing and the making of the clothing for one man?—Yes. Independent of all departmental charges, and so forth?—Yes. These charges would be plus salaries?—Yes. Plus interest of capital?—Certainly. Plus rent?—Certainly. Plus damage and every other contingency?—Yes. And carriage and ink, and pens and paper, and all necessaries for conducting the business?—Yes. Therefore that is not a fair return of what it costs the nation, because if you have to pay those charges in addition, those prices are not the actual cost to the country?—They (are not. So that the return is a fallacious one?—It is not a complete one." 1923 "As I understand you, it is not proposed that that establishment should be extended so far as to make all the clothing for the army, but only a portion of the clothing of certain regiments, in order to give you a test as to the price?—Certainly; I hope never to see a great Government establishment for clothing the army. The more such establishments are used for the purpose of obtaining information and obtaining models the better; but I look with some apprehension upon all great Government establishments.…. It is very desirable that a Government establishment should produce the minimum, and the private trade of the country should produce the rest." 1924 1925 1926 1927 "There has been expended in wages to artificers, naval stores, for the building, repairing, and outfitting of the fleet, steam machinery, and ships built by contract, new works, improvements, and repairs in the yards, from 1859 to 1863 inclusive (five years), £24,350,000. Taking into account the values of all the iron-clads built and building, and giving a large sum for useless constructions of wooden ships, and making a liberal allowance for equipment and repairs, still there will be left more than ten millions out of the above sum for the expenditure of which a private shipbuilder could assign no rational purpose." 1928 Royal Sovereign, 1929 Research. Research, Royal Sovereign. 1930 1931 personnel 1932
 MR. COBDEN  rose, apparently with the intention of replying, when
 MR. COBDEN : Then I shall put myself in order by moving an Amendment.
 MR. COX  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he will next Session bring in a Bill making it compulsory on Magistrates who, sitting in Petty Sessions, refused an application for a "Gladstone" Wine Licence, to state the grounds of their refusal, so that their decision may be appealed from to the Quarter Sessions?
 MR. MONSELL  said, he wished to address a few remarks to the House, as the
 1935 1936 Hume's Essay on Miracles. 1937 1938 matériel, 1939 s. d.; s. s. s. d., 1940 1941 1942
 MR. ALDERMAN ROSE  said, he could not agree with the hon. Member for Rochdale—he thought it would be extremely bad policy for the Government to throw itself unreservedly into the hands of contractors. In the matter of guns the Government had of late years become their own manufacturers, and by that means we had obtained what was for the time the best weapon in the world. He was intimately acquainted with the commander of the Buffs in China, and that officer had told him that a number of Frenchmen had at one time got into a position of considerable difficulty, that he had offered to dislodge the enemy, that the French officers had treated that as an impossibility in consequence of the distance which separated the two forces, but that he had brought the Armstrong gun into play, and to the astonishment of our gallant Allies had completely succeeded in that object. When the Crimean war broke out there were miles of Low Moor iron guns in store at Woolwich. That gun, however, was found so defective and unsuited to the wants of modern science that the Armstrong gun was produced. The latter gun was so great an improvement that the Government did quite right to purchase the pa-
 1943
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that the reasons were now stated for refusing such an application; and the only question was, whether an appeal should be granted on the occasion of a first application. He had communicated with his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer upon the subject, and he thought it right that such an appeal should be allowed.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he should content himself with referring to that portion of the Resolution of the hon. Member for Rochdale, on which the hon. Member had himself more lightly touched. The right hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. Monsell) had stated that the charge for shells and other missiles at the breaking out of the Crimean war entirely justified the erection of the extensive works at Woolwich. What were really the facts? That the orders so suddenly given to the contractors in that emergency compelled them to go to largely increased expense. Taking, for instance, the Low Moor Company, he could prove that in order to execute the commissions for the Government the Company had to erect extensive buildings, and when the Government orders ceased those buildings became useless, and actually the land and buildings had been presented to the town, and baths and washhouses had since been erected on the site. A sudden pressure of that kind, which demanded extra exertions, had a corresponding effect upon prices; but it did not justify the allegation that the new factory for shells had been a great success in an economical point of view. The noble Lord who had just spoken (the Marquess of Hartington) had put forth as a justification for Government establishments that rigid inspection was absolutely necessary. It was true that rigid inspection should be exercised over all articles of Government consumption; but that was equally true whether the articles were manufactured by Government or simply sold to them. The noble Lord had referred to the Armstrong contract as proving that the Government might sometimes be properly its own manufacturers; but the Government had ultimately paid Sir William Armstrong £65,000 to be quit of their engagement, while Sir William Armstrong was set free to make guns for all the world. This was done after the Government had spent between£2,000,000 and £3,000,000, and he believed they would now willingly get rid of the stock they had on hand in consequence of that contract. With respect to the accounts, he thought his hon. Friend the Member for Rochdale was right, for the accounts rendered from Enfield were no accounts at all; they were a mere insult to the common sense of the House. Then, with regard to iron-plated ships, if, as had been said by his hon. Friend (Mr. Childers), five-sixths of the iron armour-plated ships had been supplied from private yards,
 1964
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he accepted the explanation, but what he wished to show was, that if the Government were steady customers they would always be supplied with what they wanted at the cheapest rate, but that if they applied to the trade only in time of war, they could not be cheaply supplied. With respect to the accounts of ships, he agreed with his hon. Friend that it was very difficult to institute a comparison between them. Out of the twenty-three ships ordered by the Government, he believed eighteen were different in size and structure. But as all early efforts were mainly experimental, it would be unfair to make a rigid comparison of cost. As a test of the capabilities of the private yards, he might refer to the magnificent yacht recently built for the Sultan of Turkey by a private firm, and to her Majesty's yacht, built in a Government yard, the one being universally admired, the other universally condemned. He trusted that the House would allow him to refer to private affairs for a few moments, in order to afford information. The amount of labour and material employed in all the Government dockyards was nothing like half as much as were employed by his own firm; and the firm so kept their accounts that in reference to each contract the capital charge was taken into account, and the cost of every article used in each particular contract was known on the termination of the work, and the exact cost of every item in the contract clearly shown. Until the Government furnished similar accounts they would not fulfil their duty. What was wanted was a debtor and cre-
 1965 1966
 COLONEL BARTTELOT,  in seconding the Motion, begged to thank the hon. Member for Rochdale for the able and temperate manner in which he had brought the subject under the notice of the House. As guardians of the public purse, it was their duty to see that the money voted was properly, fairly, and honestly expended. He thought that the taxpayers of the country would read that debate with pleasure, because they would see that the House was not inattentive to the way in which the Votes were expended by the Government. If they attended to that point the democratic revolution hinted at by the hon. Member would be averted by the independent Members of the House. He wished to call attention not only to the question, whether the money voted by Parliament had been properly expended, but also to the question whether the results of the expenditure were such as the country had a right to expect from the outlay. In the first place, he had to remark, that notwithstanding all the money we had spent, they had not a gun—certainly not a naval gun—such as a great nation like ours ought to have. Considering the amount spent in the dockyards we were not so well provided with iron-clads as we ought to be. Long since the Admiralty were warned that wooden ships would be of little or no use; nevertheless the Admiralty persisted in building them and had neglected to provide a number of iron ships sufficient to cope with the navies of other nations. In 1854 the Duke of Somerset (then Lord Seymour), in speaking on the Ordnance Estimates, stated that the opinion of several Members of the Government was that it was not advisable that the Government should be manufacturers, except to a small extent—that the general system ought to be one of contract, and that no one believed in the cheapness of Government establishments. Circumstances had certainly not changed since then, and what was objectionable in 1854 was quite as objectionable in 1864. Of late years a manufactory had sprung up at Pimlico, upon which a vast sum of money had been expended with the most unsatisfactory results. It was true our infantry regiments were better clothed than they were some years ago; but that
 1933 s. d.; 1934
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, he hoped that the House would not agree to the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, which would practically have the effect of placing the whole of the power in the bands of the Chairman, and reducing the other three Members to the position of dummies. He
 2011
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  asked the Speaker, whether it would not be competent to any hon. Member to move on the following day that the word "three" be inserted in the Resolution instead of "four?"
 MR. COWPER  said, he was glad to hear that the Metropolitan Board of Works had recognized the duty intrusted to them of preventing a serious public inconvenience and danger which at present existed, owing to the crowded state of Park Lane. He would willingly offer them every facility in his power to remedy 60 great an inconvenience. The Metropolitan Board of Works seemed to think that opening Hamilton Place would be a better course than widening Park Lane. He apprehended that there was considerable doubt upon that point. The upper portion of Hamilton Place was only twenty-eight feet wide in the carriage-way, which he considered was too small a width to meet the object in view. The land occupied by gardens northward was the property of the Crown, and was let upon lease to the tenants of the houses. Of course the Crown could not be advised to take any steps towards breaking the terms of those leases, which could only be done by an Act of Parliament. If, however, the Metropolitan Board of Works would bring forward a Bill to prolong Hamilton Place, no impediment would be offered on the part of the advisers of the Crown.
 MR. PEEL  said, in reply, that early in the present year the Treasury asked the surviving members—seven or eight in number—of the National Standard Commission, to examine the original Standards of Weights and Measures, and the Astronomer Royal had made a Report, in which he said—
 "The Controller General of the Exchequer produced for the inspection of the members the National or Parliamentary Standard of Length (duly identified by its distinguishing marks as described in the Standard Act), which was examined by all the members present with the aid of powerful microscopes, and was judged by all to be in so perfect a state that no comparison with the Parliamentary copies was necessary." "The three Parliamentary copies of the Weight Standard were collected on March the 14th; and, on March the 15th, Professor W. H. Miller recompared the Parliamentary Standard of Weight with them under favourable circumstances. The apparent change of weight of the Parliamentary Standard was less than 1–5,000,000th of the whole—a quantity within errors of observation, and implying no real change." "In the presence of the Committee, the leaden box of the immured Standards was opened, and the Parliamentary copy of the Standard of Length was examined with Mr. Simm's microscopes, and that of Weight by general inspection. Both were in the finest possible order."
 MR. PEEL  said, in reply, that the Law Officers of the Crown had given it as their opinion that the expression, "charge for pay," would include any portion of the pay deducted for the purpose of being paid over to the superannuation fund. The Treasury, therefore, were at liberty to contribute one-fourth part of the charge for pay inclusive of the sum paid for superannuation.
 MR. LINDSAY  said, before putting the Question of which he had given notice, he had desired to have made a statement, containing some important facts bearing upon the American war, and tending to show how futile was the attempt to restore the Union and to coerce the South; but as he had no opportunity now of doing so, he begged simply to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, If, considering the great sacrifice of life and property occasioned by the war still raging between the United States of America and the Confederate States, and considering the loss the people of this Country have suffered by the war, it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government, in concert with the other Powers of Europe, to use their endeavours to bring about a suspension of hostilities?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  replied, that a Circular had been issued in December, 1858, which laid it down that I a stamp duty of thirty shillings should be paid on commissions being gazetted, According to that rule, this stamp duty ought to be collected out of the first additional pay received by the officer. It appeared that in some cases this had been neglected to be done, and therefore it was very probable that in some instances officers might have been recently asked to pay the stamp duty on commissions granted so long ago. With regard to the great delay in making these claims on officers, the noble Lord was probably aware that in consequence of the enormous number of new commissions issued a few years ago, an Act was passed dispensing with the necessity of the Sign Manual being affixed to them, the signature of the Commander-in-Chief being substituted. The arrear was so great it had not been all worked off yet; and, inasmuch as the Commissioners of Inland Revenue actually refused to affix the stamp to commissions till the stamp duty was paid, the charge was now being made against those officers who ought to have paid it at once.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he was not aware of the existence of any papers which would corroborate the statement made by the right hon. Gentleman on the subject of the Woolwich Gun Foundry the other night; but he had received private information upon that point, from which he bad reason to believe that that statement was perfectly correct. He believed that the whole building, which was constructed at the time when the right hon. Gentleman was in office, with some trifling exceptions, was available for the manufacture of the Armstrong gun. The only loss was occasioned by the additional expense for the fitting boxes, amounting to £2,700, and for the casting pit, amounting to
 2022
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he was very glad that the hon. Gentleman had not carried out his intention of opposing the third reading of the Bill, especially as it had reference to the completion of a scheme for the defence of Portsmouth and Spithead. The subject had been so fully discussed in several former years, and the House had so distinctly asserted its determination that Spit-head should be defended by a system of forts in combination with its floating defences, that it would be scarcely worth while to occupy time at that late period of the Session in discussing once again the merits of the scheme. It was true that it had been found necessary to abandon the site of one of these forts, and a modification of the plan had been rendered necessary, but that modification was very slight. But if the hon. Gentleman would look at the evidence before the Defence Commission, be would see that the Government had sufficient grounds to go upon with regard to the foundation for the Sturbridge Fort. Sir Charles Fox strongly supported the opinion that a site would be found; and although Mr. Hawkshaw expressed more doubt, still his evidence
 2028 The Times 2029 2030 2031 Edinburgh Review. 2032
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, he regretted that, in attacking the Government for not paying proper attention to the defences of the country, the hon. Member for Liskeard should have cast reflections on a body of officers who deserved well of their country—the Ordnance Select Committee. [Mr. BERNAL OSBORNE disclaimed any intention of doing so.] The hon. Gentleman had accused the Committee of being prejudiced in favour of one system, which had disappointed everybody. The truth was that since the subject began to attract attention the Committee had been changed three or four times in order to please the hon. Gentleman and others. First of all it was composed of artillery officers, but a complaint was made that it was not purely an artillery question, and that engineering science should be brought to bear on it. Accordingly, engineer officers were put on the Committee; but even that did not satisfy people, and a mixed Committee was formed, comprising officers of artillery, engineers, and civilians, among the number being such men as Professor Wheat-stone and Mr. Gregory. Objections, however, continued to be made, and further changes took place. The Committee now included artillery officers, engineer officers, line officers, and naval officers, Surely, when such a body of men, consisting of the best officers in the service and eminent engineers, concurred in a certain opinion, even the hon. Gentleman might be expected to bow to it. Great improvements had been effected during the last six years. In 1858, when the gallant General the Member for Huntingdon (General Peel) was at the War Office, there was a great cry for a rifled gun, and every effort was made to procure the best. Sir William, then Mr. Armstrong, a man quite unknown at that time, came forward with a plan, and after a long course of experiments he was pronounced to be the victor, and his gun was adopted. Indeed, such was the enthusiasm that the House and the country believed this inventor knew more about rifled guns than anybody else, artillery
 2033
 CAPTAIN JERVIS : No; but when it was announced in the House that Mr. Armstrong was to be Director and K.C.B., and all the rest of it, the intimation was received with plaudits. Well, Sir William Armstrong having gained a high position, was naturally attacked by a number of men who tried to grapple with him and to take his place. Then came the question of a possible collision with France, and an alarm was raised that we had no naval guns. He recollected the Secretary to the Admiralty refusing to give Returns of naval guns, be cause we had then none at all. Sir William Armstrong succeeded in introducing 40 and 70-pounder guns which could blow any wooden ship out of the water. The French and other Governments finding that such powerful ordnance could be constructed, turned their attention to iron-plated ships; and as they went on from two, four, and six inches of iron, Sir William Armstrong ! kept up to them. We had now a gun which could pierce a ship plated with any thickness of iron that, as far as experiments had gone, could probably be used. It was for the Government to decide how many of these guns should be ordered; but hon. Members should not go on blowing hot and cold as they were doing. At one time they complained that the Government had done nothing, and then that they had done too much. Where should we have been, he would like to know, but for the money which had been spent? If the 100-pounder had been given up, it was because something better had been found. We had proceeded on step by step from one gun I to another. It was only within the last few years that the great manufacturers bad learnt how to make iron-plates at all. He recollected a year or two back when a ½-inch plate was deemed quite a wonder; and it was much to have found out in so short a time how to roll such enormous plates as were now produced. It was not a mere military question, but one which interested every man who worked in iron, whether master or mechanic; and he was not sure that as much credit was not due to the labourers at the furnaces as to any-body else. He trusted that the House would discuss the question without any party feeling, and that when it was found that we had got a good weapon, the Go-
 2034
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he would second the Motion. The Queen's army, from which it was proposed to draw medical men for India, was most insufficiently provided with medical officers. If there was an army in the world which had a right to expect that no expense would be spared in supplying it with a proper medical staff, it was the British army. Some foreign armies might be more exposed to the bullet, but no army was so much exposed to every kind of climate. It seemed to be utterly impossible to make any impression on the Government on that subject. Even the disastrous experience of the Crimean war, in which thousands and thousands of men were sacrificed in consequence of the inadequacy of the medical staff, appeared to have been lost upon the Government. The medical service of the army was composed of a body of gentlemen who had never failed in their duty at home or abroad; but, owing to the treatment these gentlemen received, medical men of good standing could no longer be got to enter the service, and the Government were obliged to resort to the introduction of an inferior class of men. He protested on the part of the army against the manner in which the medical department had been treated, and unless something were done in the interval he would move an address to the Crown on the subject early next Session.
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, he wished to know whether the right hon. Baronet meant to do away with open competition. The refusal to answer that question created suspicion. He had reason to believe that the competitive system had succeeded well, and he made the statement, on the authority of an Indian medical officer. Several petitions, however, had been sent up to him that day for presentation to that House, protesting that the Warrant of 1858 had not been carried out. As things stood young men were deterred from entering the medical service; hut, if an alteration were made, the services of a highly educated body of men would be rendered available and their rights secured, As to drawing assistant-surgeons from the Queen's army, they were told the other night that for the last eighteen months the supply of that body had fallen short by forty men. There must be something radically wrong in the system, cither with reference to the position or the pay of these officers, for if they gave men sufficient encouragement to enter, there would be no difficulty in obtaining a proper supply.
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, he wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman had consulted any of the parishes in the metropolis with respect to the Bill, and what answers he had received. On the general question it was impossible for any one who lived in the metropolis, or read what appeared in the newspapers, not to feel that something should be done to relieve the casual poor. It was no party question. It was one of simple humanity. Still the principle of the measure was so important, and the opportunity for considering it so brief, that he hoped the Bill would be limited to the mouth of March next.
 MR. WHITE  said, he rose to move that the House resolve itself into a Committee upon the Bill on that day month. The measure had arisen from a convention signed in London, March 5, 1864. He held that it was not respectful or decorous to the House that such a Bill should be delayed to so late a period of the Session. The Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs had just informed him that this measure had passed the House of Lords. That might be a strong recommendation to the hon. Gentleman, but with all respect to the House of Lords, it was not the slightest recommendation to him (Mr. White). The
 2057
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he thought his noble Friend had not rightly apprehended either the provisions of the Bill or the general principles which pervaded all measures of the same nature. If his noble Friend would consider the matter be would see that in conformity with the treaty itself the Bill provided expressly that no one should be delivered up except such evidence was produced as according to the English law would justify a magistrate in committing him for the offence in this country. That principle was perfectly well settled. The matter was fully considered in the case of the slave Anderson, who was demanded for extradition from Canada on the ground of his having committed what by the law of the United States was considered murder—namely, killing the person who sought to apprehend him and deliver him back to slavery. But it was held by the highest authorities in this country that he could not be delivered up, for this reason—that
 2060
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he had no hesitation in saying that the circumstances required in this country must be proved in order to justify extradition.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that he held in his hand the treaty with France, and it was in all the points that had been mentioned exactly similar to that before the House. In the treaty under consideration, however, murder was much better defined than it was in that one. Here it was stated to comprehend assassination, parricide, and two other offences. [Mr. HENNESSY: Assassination?] He apprehended that the laws of no civilized country would say that "assassination" included the taking of life in an insurrection where the parties were openly and fairly in the field. The provisions of the French Treaty as to the production of convictions were precisely the same as those which were contained in this convention. In both cases, of course, it would be ne-
 2066
 MR. WHITE  said, that when the Attorney General, with that eloquence by which he was characterized, had talked in glowing terms of English principles and English justice, he could not help thinking that the American term "bunkum" might with great propriety be applied to his speech. The fact was that the Bill before the House had nothing to do with English principles or English justice, but rather with Prussian law and Prussian injustice. Political offenders were frequently condemned in their absence by foreign courts as they termed it  par contumace,
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he was glad that the subject had been brought before the House, as a great and lasting feeling existed against the proceedings of the Russian Government, by the course it had pursued with regard to the gallant race of the Caucasus.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, that he would withdraw his Amendment upon that understanding, but he must insist upon satisfactory evidence being adduced to show that the Boards of Guardians possessed proper places for the reception of the casual poor previous to the reimbursement of their expenses by the Metropolitan Board of Works.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, he was sorry he could not agree with his right boil. Friend in thinking that the mode in which the Bill was introduced or the time at which it was brought forward were not open to objection. He was ready to admit that the existing state of things required that some remedy should be provided, but his right hon. Friend did not appear to him to have a full appreciation of the great difficulties with which the Question was beset. He wished briefly to remind
 2044 2045 2046 lazzaroni "In order to secure sufficient and convenient moans for the relief of the casual and houseless poor within the metropolis, as defined by the Metropolitan Local Management Act, it is expedient that the charges incurred for the support of such poor should be paid out of a rate assessed on the annual rateable value of the whole of the said metropolis. That, in the opinion of this Committee, the machinery adopted under the Metropolitan Local Management Act might be made available for raising the amount of such charge, and your Committee recommend that authority be given to the Metropolitan Board of Works for such purpose." "That the Poor Law Board be empowered to prescribe and enforce all necessary arrangements for providing the requisite accommodation in the several unions and parishes, and otherwise carrying the foregoing Resolutions into effect. That, with the view of suppressing vagrancy as far as practicable, the Committee are of opinion that the central authority, when invested with ade-
 2047
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE : It is an Order of the House.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, the House had distinctly decided the Question that four should be the number of members, and he was afraid that having so decided they could not go hack on it. The Question of the casting vote of the Chairman was a very important one, and if Resolutions 7, 8, and 9 were postponed till the following Session, a new Standing Order might be framed, which, on a full and fair consideration of the subject, might meet all the difficulties.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, it had been felt, in the discussions on that matter which had taken place in the Committee, that if they had Committees of four Members, too great power would be thrown in the hands of the Chairman, who would have
 2009
 MR. LYGON  said, he would suggest that Resolutions 7, 8, and 9 should be postponed till the next Session.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, in reply, that it was not the intention of the Admiralty to appropriate any portion of Greenwich Hospital to that purpose.
 LORD ERNEST BRUCE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Ministers to advise Her Majesty, in consequence of the cession of the Ionian Islands to the kingdom of Greece, to enlarge the statutes of the most distinguished Order of St. Michael and St. George, so as to enable Her Majesty to confer that Order upon such persons as She may think proper, who have served Her Majesty in any part of Her Colonial Possessions?
 LORD HOTHAM  said, he rose to ask, on behalf of his right hon. and gallant Friend General Peel, Whether it is true that a demand has recently been made upon an Officer for Stamp Duty upon a Commission as Quartermaster General in the Crimea in 1855, which appointment he ceased to hold in 1856; and whether, in fact, any Commission has ever been made out?
 LORD HOTHAM  said, he could not concur in the proposed reduction the practical effect of which would be that Committees would consist of two Members only! That would not be satisfactory to the public. He should not so much object to a Committee of four.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that the hon. Member for Hull (Mr. Clay) had asked the noble Lord whether the present treaty was identical with the extradition treaties with other countries? He understood the noble Lord to state that this was quite a different extradition treaty. [Viscount PALMERSTON: I said it was the same.] The noble Lord had pointed out the inconvenience which the present extradition treaty with France had caused.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that there was an inconsistency between the noble Lord's explanation and the second clause of the Bill. It would be necessary for some legal Member of the Government to point out the words in the clause that corresponded with the terms of the extradition treaty now in force.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he could not agree that the question was quite so simple a matter as the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs would have them believe, neither did he feel satisfied that the political element was excluded from the treaty. The great difficulty they had to look at was the law of conscription, and what he feared was that under the Bill they would be called upon to apprehend deserters for a despotic Power. Now, a case in point had just happened? Certain Poles escaped from the Russian army and fled to America, and they were demanded by Russia from America under a similar extradition treaty. Conscription was often used as a mere engine of oppression, and deserter was very often used as only another name for political exile, and what he wanted to show was that something of the same kind might be included in the Bill. Burglary
 2059
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he wished to say a word, as he believed he was the only Conservative Member present who was on the Committee, and who was
 2049
 LORD ROBERT CECIL : I wish, Sir, to ask a Question of the Secretary of State for the Colonies in consequence of the reply he has just given the hon. Member for Taunton. I do not understand how the expenses of a Kaffir war are to be shared in the unfortunate mischance of such an event. I hope the right hon. Gentleman has formed a distinct conception in his own mind upon this subject, and I trust that the right hon. Gentleman will console the House by assuring them that in the event of such a calamity as that referred to there will be a limit to our share of the consequent expense.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he wished to move that the word "four" be inserted.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, that be hoped sincerely that the House would adopt the proposition of his hon. and gallant Friend. All the Members attended the Committee, and gave the subject most careful consideration. The Resolutions had, in substance, been explained to the House previously.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he wished to know how his hon. and gallant Friend intended to deal with the question of the Chairman's vote. There was a difficulty in the matter, as the Committees were to be composed of four Members. It would be objectionable to give one Member a double vote, and therefore he thought they ought to act on the maxim  semper presumitur pro negante.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL : Sir, I am sorry that the noble Lord the Member for the East Riding of Yorkshire (Lord Hotham) is not here, because I think he would have informed us that it was not the unanimous opinion of the Committee that, as the hon. Chairman has stated, any time however late, any day however late in the Session, is a fitting one for bringing this Motion forward. [Mr. HOWES: No!] I understood the hon. Member to express a hope that there would be no protest from any part of the House as to time; because, whatever might be the time, this matter ought to be disposed of this Session. I think the noble Lord the Member for the East Riding would have shown that there are members of the Committee who would not agree in that opinion. This Question, Sir, consists of two parts—the one a personal part, and the other a matter of policy. I thought that the noble Lord at the head of the Government carefully confined himself to the personal part of the Question, and if I am right in that impression, and am to understand him as merely wishing to clear the right hon. Gentleman the late Vice President of the Education Department from the shadow of anything reflecting upon his veracity, then I have no objection to join the noble Lord in his Resolution; but, if he wishes, at this late
 2080 2081
 MR. AYRTON  said, he thought that the House hardly understood the proposition which had been made, because it involved not only an alteration in the number of Members serving on a Committee, but an alteration in the constitution of the Committee itself. At present the Committee was formed of five shifting Members, any three of whom formed a quorum, and the present proposal was that the Committees should consist of three Members, in the absence of any one of whom no business, unless the consent of the House had been obtained for such a course, could be proceeded with. The intention of the new Standing Order was that no one should vote who had not heard the evidence from beginning to the end.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that no answer had been given to the Question asked by his hon. Friend (Mr. White)—namely, whether a person was to be given up charged with murder or attempt to murder without any qualification. It was said he was not to be given up unless he was guilty of an of-
 2062
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether he will lay upon the table of the House the recent Despatches from the Governor of the Cape Colony relating to the proposed annexation of the Trans-Kei territory to British Kaffraria? He also wished to ask, Whether the recent Despatches received from the Cape of Good Hope have led the right hon. Gentleman to think that there is any chance of another Kaffir war; and, if so, whether in the event of such misfortune the whole cost will have to be borne by the Imperial Exchequer, or whether any portion of the cost beyond the payment of the Mounted Police will be required from the Colony?
 MR. LAYARD  said, that the object was merely to confirm a simple extradition treaty such as we had with Italy, France, and other Powers. Although the convention bore date the 5th of March the ratifications had not been exchanged till the 8th of April. The Bill had no political tendency. We had similar conventions with other European nations for mutual convenience; and his hon. Friend (Mr. White) must remember that the provisions of the convention could not be put in force without a legal process. The convention applied to persons accused or convicted of murder; comprehending the crimes of assassination, parricide, infanticide, and poisoning, attempt to commit murder, forgery, fraudulent bankruptcy, burglary, robbery with violence to the person robbed, larceny, or embezzlement by clerks and servants. It would be a great convenience to us to have the convention, and he could assure the House that there was nothing in it which ought to alarm even a Gentleman of the advanced political opinions of his hon. Friend, for there was no desire on the part of the Government to put an end to the patriotic feeling of Prussian patriots.
 MR. LAYARD  replied, that he had not received any official communication on the subject of Lord Francis Douglas's passport. With regard to the more general Question, he had to state that, as far as he could ascertain, the rule appeared to be that when a French passenger vessel called at any port in the Mediterranean, it was the practice for the captain to collect the passports and show them to the authorities. But he was not aware whether the captain did that in the case
 2018
 MR. LAYARD  said, he quite agreed in the opinion which had been expressed of the great crime which had been committed by Russia. The Turkish Government had behaved with great humanity. The Sultan had subscribed £50,000 from his own privy purse for the relief of the poor refugees. There was some difference as to their numbers, one account describing them at 100,000, another at 300,000. The probability was they numbered about one-half. The Russian Government had done nothing beyond placing at their disposal three or four vessels. The British Government had given every assistance in their power, by furnishing transports, and sending a largo amount of biscuits, With regard to papers, he had none that he could produce at present.
 MR. C. S. BUTLER  said, he should support the Bill. It was to be regretted that more time had not been allotted for consideration, but he hoped that another winter would not be allowed to pass without some-measure to afford relief to the destitute classes in whose behalf the Bill was introduced being adopted. He had communicated with the various Boards of Guardians in the eastern districts of the metropolis, and they were in favour of the Bill, and were anxious that it should become law.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, he would
 2055 2056
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, that in rising to move that the House go into Committee on the Bill, he trusted that be might be allowed to make one or two observations, inasmuch as he had been charged, without due foundation, firstly, with not having made a sufficiently full explanation of the objects of the Bill, and, secondly, with having made it at a very late hour. He would appeal to the House
 2040 2041 2042 Will. 2043
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he thought the Attorney General had clearly explained that it must be proved that a fugitive had committed an act which in this country would justify his committal, otherwise he would not be given up.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that he could not produce the regulations before the Bill was passed, because he had no power to do so.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that the hon. Member who spoke last had mixed up matters which bore no relation to each other. He had said he had several petitions to present from medical officers in India with reference to the Warrant of 1858, but he had entirely forgotten that there lay on the table the copy of a des-patch sent to India three or four months ago, and remedying the grievances of the existing medical service of India by putting it entirely on the same footing as to pay and allowances as the Queen's army occupied, according to the rank which the officers held. The hon. Member said the object of the Bill was to get rid of the competitive system, and to introduce into the Indian service an inferior class of medical officers. The hon. Gentleman must either not have heard or had forgotten the statements that he (Sir Charles Wood) had made on three or four occasions in that House. The competitive system had not failed in the Queen's army at home, but it had failed in respect to the Indian army. That was, of course, before the
 2037
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the exemption of British Subjects from the demand for Passports in Franco exempts them also from their Passports being demanded and given over to the custody of the captain on going on board French Passenger Steamers in the Mediterranean and elsewhere? He wished further to ask, Whether any information has been received at the Foreign Office of the complaint made by Lord Francis Douglas, that his Pass-port had been taken from him and torn to pieces before his face at a place near Bodenbach, in Austria?
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  asked, whether the proposed Resolutions contained any provision to the effect that the Referee was not to be a Member of the House?
 LORD FERMOY  said, that whether the proposed legislation was good or bad it was at all events hasty, and hasty legislation was always open to objection. He agreed in
 2054
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he wished—but unfortunately it was not in his power—to state beforehand what the expenses of any future war would be. He had already stated that there was no arrangement between this country and the colony as to the expense of any Kaffir war. British
 2020
 MR. CARDWELL  said, in reply, that it was true that, since the cession of the Ionian Islands, the Order had become confined to Malta. The subject of its extension was well worthy of consideration, but Her Majesty's pleasure had not yet been signified.
 MR. CARDWELL,  in reply, said, it was difficult to state the provision for a future war. As he had stated the other evening, the result of the despatches was upon the whole satisfactory. With respect to the details of those despatches which related to the state of feeling on the frontier, he thought it would not be desirable to produce them.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he wished to call attention to the circumstance that the paragraph of the second section headed "secondly" contained a provision—
 "That depositions or statements on oath, certified under the hand of the magistrate by whom the original warrant was issued, and attested by the oath of the party producing them to be the original depositions or statements, or true copies thereof, may be received in evidence of the criminality of the fugitive apprehended."
 MR. HOWES : Sir, as Chairman of the Committee I should wish to say a few words on this Question. If it had come on at an earlier period of the evening I should have thought it my duty to go at some length into the matters connected with it, but at this time of night I cannot be expected to do so. In the first place, however, I trust sincerely that the House, although this Motion has been brought on at a late time of night, and at a late period of the Session, will not object to it on the ground of time, knowing as we do that the noble Lord is extremely limited as to time, and it being absolutely imperative that this question should be set at rest once and for ever. Whatever different opinions there may be on this point and on others which may arise in the course of the debate, I hope there will be no difference upon one on which the Committee were unanimous—that the personal honour of the right hon. Member for Calne is absolutely and entirely clear and untouched. If any doubt of the sort has existed in the mind of any man in or out of this House, I trust it will be set at rest henceforth and for ever. As to the conduct of his Department, it is quite clear that for many years it has exercised a censorship and control over the Reports of the Inspectors. The Committee found unanimously that such a power existed, and that it had existed for many years, and, moreover, that it had been exercised with fairness and without excessive strictness. The noble Lord has analyzed the terms of the Resolution to a certain extent. I should be unwilling to discuss the meaning of the word "mutilation." The Committee considered that point. They refer to it in their Report, and they say that it must always be a matter of opinion whether the omission or alteration of any portion of a document has or has not an important bearing with reference to that which is admitted or is permitted to stand. The following words of the Resolution of the 12th of April are to the effect that there has been an exclusion of matter unfavourable to the views of the Department, and matter admitted which is favourable to them. If that is true, it is true to the letter, and yet the converse is: also true; and if the converse be added to the Resolution it has no effect whatever, and becomes a  caput mortuum. 2071 2072
 MR. HOWES  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether the opinion of the Law Officers of the Crown has been given on the construction of the Act 19 & 20 Vict. c. 69, s. 16, respecting certain deductions made by the Treasury from the Government contribution of one-fourth part of the charge for the pay and clothing of the Police in Counties and Boroughs, and whether he will state the effect of such opinion?
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he thought it was not the fact that the Standing Orders had been repealed.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he wished to ask, whether the object of the Motion was to give the House a clear sheet of paper for the introduction of a new series of Standing Orders?
 MR. DOULTON  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether the Exchequer Standards of Weight and Measure have been adjusted and reverified,
 2016
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, that the objection to the measure seemed to be directed more to the manner in which it was proposed to be administered than to the raising of the funds from the entire metropolis. It was an objection, however, based rather on sentiment than on principle, and was worthy rather of the vestry room than the House of Commons. It was said that if relief were expanded the number of destitute poor would increase. But would it be for a moment contended that the present state of things should be allowed longer to exist over another winter. The floating poor were of necessity driven eastwards — the residents of the West End were relieved of their presence—they said they were willing to contribute to their support, and if they were sincere in their profession they ought not to object to the Bill. The houseless poor did not belong to east or west, but were the common charge of the entire metropolis, and any measure which made the metropolis support them was a proper one, and did not at all interfere with the principle that every district should provide for its own poor.
 MR. LYALL  said, that although he concurred in many of the arguments of the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, he did not agree with his observation that there was no urgency in the case. On the contrary, the Committee of which he had been a Member thought it a subject which deserved the early consideration of Parliament. Some time back the right hon. Gentleman, in reply to the hon. Member for Norfolk, stated that the subject would require several Bills, and that no general Bill would be introduced by the Government during the year. After the harrowing cases of distress amongst the poor of London during severe winter weather, of which they all had read in the newspapers, it would not be a comforting reflec-
 2048 Vict,
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, he objected to the proposal, as he should prefer a Committee of three to four Members. In the former division the question was as between three and five, and he voted against three; but now he would, if it were competent to him to do so, move that the word "three" be inserted instead of four.
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, he wished to know, if it was competent to move an Amendment?
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, that such a reduction was open to great objection. In the Committee of which he was a Member that Session two of the Members were taken suddenly ill and were obliged to absent themselves. Now, if there were to be only three Members on the Committee, in the event of such a contingency, the inconvenience would be obvious.
 MR. PAULL  said, that in his opinion the House ought to hesitate long before it altered the constitution of the Committees Too much was made of the tax put on hon. Members to serve on Committees. No doubt there was some inconvenience, but so long as the House chose to keep those matters within their own jurisdiction, the only question to be considered was what arrangement would be most satisfactory to the public. If the number were reduced: to three, great difficulties might arise, I Should one Member he absent, and the in quiry proceed with the concurrence of all parlies, the result would be a tribunal of two, one Member of which would have two votes, and would practically have the case
 2010
 MR. PAULL  said, he wished to ask, if it was competent for any hon. Member to move the insertion of the word "three" as an Amendment?
 MR. PAULL  said, that decision was "five" against "three." It was then proposed to take the decision of the House on the question of "three" against "four."
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  asked, whether the right bon. Gentleman would produce the regulations for the information of the House?
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, that he rose to move for papers relating to the immigration into Turkey of Circassian exiles. A great amount of suffering had been caused by the proceedings of the Russian authorities in Circassia, owing to the great miseries and suffering entailed upon an immense number of the unfortunate natives of the Caucasus. The course pursued in that quarter seemed to be but a portion of the policy of the Russian Government towards rebellious or resistant races. In Poland the same course had been pursued, and the Poles had been forbidden to hold any land in Lithuania. The object of Russia appeared to be to get rid of every people opposed to her rule, and to replace them with the pure Russian race.
 2082
 MR. CLAY  said, he could not understand, if the object of the right hon. Gentleman was to do so little, why he should have taken power in the Bill to do so much. The fact was the service had been up to a recent time very unpopular, but candidates were increasing, and he hoped that as the improvement went on, if they increased sufficiently, the right hon. Gentleman would in the next Session bring in a Bill to do just what was wanted and no more.
 MR. CLAY  said, he wished to know if there was any difference between the treaty and other extradition treaties which we had concluded with foreign countries. The other treaties had worked well, and inasmuch as we had not been called upon to give up under them political offenders or
 2063
 MR. BRISCOE  said, he felt great apprehension lest the Bill, instead of alleviating the misery of the vagrant population, would be the means of increasing it. The cases of starvation reported by the press had not been among the casual and the vagrant, but among the resident poor, who were unwilling to enter a workhouse, and would have been saved by a modicum of out-relief. The Bill would increase the number of vagrants. The proposal to put the relief of vagrant and casual poor in the metropolis on the general fund would be an invitation for all the beggars in the country to flock to the metropolis. He remembered asking a party of beggars, having the appearance of bricklayers and bricklayers' labourers, where they came from. They replied, "Windsor." "But," said he, "why come to London?" "Oh," was the reply, "we can get at any workhouse a night's lodging and some food, and then we chance it for the day." This the Bill would increase. Besides, it would have the effect of superseding all voluntary charity. Therefore, he should support the Amendment; and he hoped that the President of the Poor Law Board would consent to postpone the Bill for the future consideration of the House when it again opened.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the right hon. Gentlemen on the Treasury Bench were responsible for such Bills.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, it could not be done. The House had already decided against "three."
 MR. SPEAKER  said, he would put the Question in this form:—That the word "five" do stand part of the Resolution.
 2012
 MR. SPEAKER  said, it would not. The sense of the House had been taken on the Question, "that the word 'three' stand part of the Question," and the decision had been in the negative. The only matters to be decided in connection with the Resolution were those of the quorum and the vote of the Chairman.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, it had been proposed to repeal the old Standing Orders and proceed to the consideration of the new, but a debate arose before that Question had been finally submitted to the House; and, therefore, the House had not come to any decision that the Standing Orders should be repealed.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, he begged to remind the House that it had already decided that Standing Order No. 7 should be postponed till the following day. Then came Standing Orders 8 and 9, when it was proposed that they also should be postponed till to-morrow, on which the Question had been raised whether or not the whole debate should be adjourned. It was quite competent for any hon. Member to move that the debate be adjourned, otherwise the hon. and gallant Gentleman could go forward with the other Question which stood for consideration that evening.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the new Standing Order itself proposed to effect the reduction to three Members, and if nobody objected to it, the new Standing Order would pass.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he had opposed the Bill at every stage, and it was rather singular that the right hon. Gentleman who had charge of the measure was never in his place when the Order was called. He was always out of the House when the discussion commenced. On a former occasion he ventured to say it was irregular that an opposed Bill should be moved by any one except the Minister in charge of it; and he begged leave to ask the opinion of the Speaker on that point.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that petitions had been addressed to the House by medical officers in Her Majesty's Indian service, complaining that the Indian Government were treating them very badly. Only a few days ago a petition was laid on the table from the College of Surgeons, reciting the grievances of these gentlemen, the gist of the statement being that changes had been introduced by the Government to the disadvantage of medical officers belonging, not only to the Indian, but also to the Home service. Under these circumstances the number of candidates for medical appointments had declined in proportion as the Government injured the service. In 1858 an Act was passed providing that all medical appointments in India should be given by open competition. The Secretary of State alleged that open competition had failed, because the number of candidates had fallen off more and more every year; but that result was attributable not to the failure of competition, but to the ill-treatment of the service. The right hon. Gentleman, instead of redressing the grievances of the medical men, proposed to do away with open competition and to appoint an efficient body of medical officers, thus endangering the safety of the Indian army. The Bill had been brought in late in the
 2035
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he wished to ask a Question of the Secretary for Ireland with reference to a Parliamentary Paper which was laid on the table on the 29th of June. The paper in question was one of four letters written thirty years ago relative to a charge of forgery against Mr. O'Malley Irwin, and which had hitherto been withheld from the House. It appears that a copy has been found by Sir Thomas Larcom in the Irish Office, and it was pro-
 2021
 MR. HENNESSY  said, reverting to the subject of his Question, he wished to know. Who is responsible for the Note appended to the Return, as to the Original Letter having been abstracted from the Crown Solicitor's papers, and whether the statement made in that Note is correct?
 MR. HENNESSY  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he would remind the House that the Question had really arisen, not as between England and Prussia, but as between Russia and Prussia. He found that one of the crimes included in the schedule was robbery with violence. Now what had happened? A certain number of Polish refugees were apprehended in Prussia, under a similar treaty between Russia and Prussia, and when England and France remonstrated, the answer was that they had been apprehended on a charge of robbery with alleged violence, they having stolen some forage, or something of that sort. The consequence was that the political refugees had been given up to Russia. Now it was remarkable that it was the first time not only that the Prussian word for burglary would come into an Act of Parliament, but also the words "robbery with violence." That was the definition of burglary which it was sought to introduce into an English Act of Parliament. He had no confidence in the Bill after what our Government had done with our own police. The right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary, unfortunately for his own reputation and also that of the Government and the country, sent two English detectives, at a critical time, to Russia. He (Mr. Hennessy) stated at the time that the two detectives received £1,000 each from the Russian Government, and he would now inform the House why it was they were paid that money. Before the Polish insurrection broke out the Grand Duke Constantine applied to this country for two detectives to be sent
 2061
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, that feeling strongly that in a rich and prosperous community no person should run the risk of starvation, he regretted that the Bill had not been introduced at an earlier period of the Session. The Bill was founded upon a wrong principle, and was opposed to the whole of their legislation for relief of the poor. He denied, therefore, that those who opposed the measure were fairly open to the charge of factiousness or hard-heartedness. Nothing could be more objectionable to the ratepayers of the metropolis than the proposal to give such powers to the Metropolitan Board of Works as were contained in the Bill. It was wrong to impose on that Board duties inconsistent with those which they were elected to perform. Their hands were already full and they had solemnly expressed their aversion to have these foreign duties imposed upon them, which they could not perform with satisfaction to themselves or to their constituents. Not only did the Bill do so, but it sought to apply funds raised for one purpose—the sewage of the metropolis—to another, the relief of the poor; and it involved the proposal of shifting the burden of supporting the poor from the occupiers to the owners of property. Marylebone parish contained one-twelfth of the valuation of the metropolis; and if the entire relief for houseless poor was to amount to £6,000, that parish must pay fur its quota, £500, though it might not be called upon to relieve houseless poor to the
 2053
 MR. LOCKE  said, he quite concurred in the noble Lord's suggestion, though he could not concur with the Mover of the Amendment as to the difficulties which might result from the passing of the measure. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bouveric) had stated that there would be no check upon the expenditure, but if he had looked into the Bill he would have seen
 2050
 MR. LOCKE  said, he wished to point out that the paragraph of the section headed "thirdly" provided that, in the case of a fugitive convicted of crime, an authenticated copy of the conviction should be produced, and proof of the identity of the person convicted he given to the satisfaction of the magistrate. Therefore, if either a man was convicted in Prussia  en contumace 2065
 MR. WALTER : Sir, I have no hesitation in saying at once that I have not the slightest desire or intention to oppose the Motion of the noble Lord, both because I think that the main object aimed at by the Resolution which it is now proposed to rescind has been fully attained by the inquiry, and also because I should be sorry to be guilty of want of respect towards the Committee, which, I think, was selected with great fairness, and which has also conducted the inquiry with great fairness, and whose Report, though I cannot concur to the full extent in the description of it given by the noble Lord—indeed, I should be disposed to take exception to some of his expressions—still points in the direction indicated by his Motion. The only thing I do complain of is, that the noble Lord should not have availed himself of the power which he might undoubtedly have exercised to give this Motion precedence over the Orders of the Day, so as to afford to many hon. Members who have been forced to quit the House from sheer exhaustion an opportunity of stating their opinions upon it. The Report states that the principle involved in the object of this inquiry, and in the Resolution of the 12th of April, is important. That is undoubtedly the case; and I may add that it has acquired an adventitious importance from the unfortunate circumstance to which that Resolution led—the resignation of my right hon. Friend the late Vice President of the Committee of Education—who, actuated by feelings most honourable to himself, but hardly called for, in my opinion, by the occasion, considered the Resolution to be a reflection on his personal honour. I never took that view of it myself, as my right hon. Friend well knows; and many hon. Gentlemen, whose authority my right hon. Friend would be the first to acknowledge, fully shared that opinion. It appears to me that this misunderstanding, as it is termed in the Report, was owing to the construction put upon the word "mu-
 2073 "The reason was my reluctance to strike out anything myself, as a matter of authority, from the Reports of the Inspectors. It appeared to me that it was a bad plan to strike anything out as a matter of authority, and then present tie Report to Parliament, as the Report of the Inspector. I thought it might raise a controversy between the Inspector and the Office, and that he would say, as, I believe, in some cases he did say, that the context was interfered with by striking out portions, and that the meaning of what remained was altered. I preferred very much, and it scorned to
 2074 "I have the honour to return to you herewith the manuscript of my general Report for 1862, which I have received from you by this post, and to point out to you that, though it has been returned to me under the circular of August 27, 1862, no passage in it is marked as objectionable; I am therefore utterly at a loss to know what it is in my Report that is censured; I drew it up most carefully in conformity with your letter of instructions, and I believe that it is entirely both according to the spirit and the letter of that document; but I shall be most happy to consider any objections which may be pointed out to me and, if I can, conscientiously, alter the passages censured." "I should like to substitute the actual communications that passed between the Office and the Inspectors. Here is the Minute, stating what the Report ought to be; here is a Report sent in; here is the judgment of the Committee, that it does not conform to the Minute; the Inspector says, 'Why? The, answer is, that we do not consider it good policy or for the interests of the service to tell you; that was the course of things." 2075 "No objection," say the Committee, "is made to statements of facts observed by the Inspectors within the circle of their official experience, whatever may be their bearing on the policy of the Committee of Council." 2076 "There are several notable examples, however, of admirable infant schools in Wales; and I beg leave to name that of Conway, as realizing, in my opinion, more than any other similar institution I ever saw, all the highest and best requisites and results connected with infant teaching. The schoolmistress is the best infant teacher in my district, admirably fitted for her duties in every respect, and deserving of the greater credit because she is not certificated, though she is aided by pupil-teachers." "You thought the statement made was intended to harass the Department?" "Yes. Taken with the rest it appeared to me to be a certain case picked out at a rather critical time of the discussion to show this—here is the best teacher of a particular class in my district who is not certificated." 2077 2078
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he wished to correct the answer which he had given to the hon. Member behind him in respect to the appointment of Referees. Now, as there was a small salary attached
 2008
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he was in favour of four Members rather than of five, and should therefore vote against the insertion of the word five. He thought that the number of four would facilitate the conduct of private business.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, that was the object of the Motion. That course had always been adopted on former occasions.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he rose, pursuant to the notice he had given, to call the attention of the House to the Report of the Select Committee on the Revision of Standing Orders. He would not detain the House by repeating any of the arguments which he used on a former occasion when he moved for the appointment of the Committee. He would merely state that the Committee, after much consideration, resolved to recommend the adoption of the Resolutions he had had the honour to submit. If he could persuade the House to agree to the Report of the Committee, next Session, Referees would be appointed by the Speaker, who would have, in connection with Private Bills, to determine certain facts, the investigation of which would thus be withdrawn from the Committees of the House. There was some delay in coming to a conclusion, in consequence of the reluctance of the Speaker to assume the responsibility of appointing the Referees. The Committee were, however, so strongly of opinion that it was desirable that the whole system should be in the body of the House, and unconnected with any public office, that they renewed their request to the Speaker, who was then good enough to express his willingness to undertake the duty if the House required it. The Committee had made some alterations in the definition of subjects to be submitted to the Referees. In regard to the second class of questions, for instance, it had been decided that only the details of traffic should be referred to the tribunal. Although the Resolutions had not met with the entire approbation of all concerned, he was bound to acknowledge the spirit of fairness with which they had been considered. The Parliamentary Bar had expressed their readiness to give the new system a fair trial, and the Parliamentary agents had not only made the same statement, but had given him their best assistance in determining the various sub-
 2006
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, that
 2007
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he would have no objection to the suggestion of his right hon. Friend (Mr. Bouverie), but he did not see what was to be gained by it. At the beginning of next Session any hon. Member might move the repeal of the Resolution fixing the number at four.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, his wish was to take the sense of the House on the Question, and therefore he would consider it afresh on the following day.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he had never heard a more unreasonable proposition. The three Resolutions which he moved to postpone were connected with the one just adopted; but the others were in no way connected with those three.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he moved that the word "four" be inserted, instead thereof.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, that he certainly had been in favour of four, but the feeling of the Committee was so strong against that number that he believed he stood almost alone. Under those circumstances, he felt himself bound to support the Report of the Committee.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, that in consequence of the alteration just made he begged to move the postponement of Resolutions 7, 8, and 9, his object being to make them conformable to the Resolution already adopted. postponed To-morrow, "8. The Committee on every opposed Private Bill (not being a Railway, Canal, or Divorce Bill), or Group of Bills, shall be composed of a Chairman and two Members not locally or otherwise interested in the Bill or Bills referred to them, to be appointed by the Committee of Selection." "9. The Committee on every unopposed Private Bill (not being a Railway, Canal, or Divorce Bill), shall, if the same shall have originated in this House, be composed of the Chairman of the Committee of Ways and Means, who shall be ex officio Chairman of every such Committee, to-
 2013
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : The House did not make the appointment.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  observed that, in popular theory, the House of Commons was responsible for the keeping of the public purse. That was a delusion which was fast passing away; for what was the state of the representative system in the month of July? After two and a half hours' discussion on the Standing Orders, which came to nothing, they were exhausted, and were prepared to pass a Bill involving millions of money. What was really the state of the question regarding fortifications? At half past two in the morning during the last week the Bill went into Committee; that was to say at a time when it was impossible for those who were not present to know what had been done, for those able men who sat in the Reporters' Gallery were naturally us much fatigued as the House, and they were totally unable to record any remarks if they were made; the consequence was a blank in the discussions of the question, which involved first and last an expenditure of £20,000,000. How did the question actually stand at that moment? A material alteration had been made in the original plan for the defence of Portsmouth Harbour and Spithead, which he believed would not be effectual for its purpose, but would lead to a great increase of expenditure. The original plan, as given by the Defence Commissioners three years ago, proposed to flank the entrance to Spithead with two forts on the Horse Shoe and No Man's shoals. The House approved and adopted that plan. That was the outer circle of defence 6,000 yards from Portsmouth Dockyard. But within that outer defence the Commissioners proposed that midway between Ryde and Portsmouth another fort should be erected called Sturbridge, to command the anchorage at Spithead. From the Report of the Commissioners it appeared that was a most material point in the inner circle of defence. What, then,
 2023 2024 s. d. 2025 2026 Edinburgh Review, La Gloire. 2027 Edinburgh Review
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether it is the intention of the Lords Commissioners to appropriate any portion of Greenwich Hospital for the reception of worn-out and disabled Seamen of the Merchant Service?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, be was also prepared to vote for "four." That number would afford some relief to the House and also leave an efficient Committee.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that he had had an opportunity of hearing the Question discussed both at the Committee which had been held last year and at the Committee which had sat during the present Session, and he had come to the conclusion that the arguments were rather unfavourable to reducing the number so far as three. He believed that there was a good deal of force in the argument employed by the hon. Member for St. Ives, that in the case of the absence of one of the Members of a Committee formed of throe, through illness, the whole business was practically under the control of the Chairman, who, in case of a division of opinion, would have the privilege of using his casting vote. Many of the matters referred to Select Committees were too important to be decided by one Member, and the public would hardly think that sufficient justice was done to their interests. If they could secure the attendance of three Members no doubt it would be sufficient, as that number was the present quorum, He would much prefer the reduction of the number of Members on the Committee to four. If he remembered rightly, his hon. Friend the Member for North Lancashire in the Committee which sat upon the subject last year advocated the reduction to that number, although as Chairman of the Committee which had recently sat he brought forward the recommendation for the reduction of the number to three.
 MR. FERRAND  said, that as it was a Bill which greatly affected the character of the country, he should move the adjournment of the debate, in order that the measure might be discussed at a proper period of the evening.
 MR. LYSLEY  said, he rose to join in the appeal. The provisions of the Bill appeared to him to be clear to substitute a system of patronage for a system of competition. He protested against a Bill which professed upon its face to confer unlimited powers being explained by a promise that those powers should only be exercised within a certain limit. That promise would no doubt be observed by the right hon. Gentleman, but he could not bind his successors If the Bill were passed, he agreed with the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Monsell) in thinking that it would be fatal to the system of competitive examinations, As to the want of candidates for the Indian service, that was to be traced to the inadequate inducements that were held out, and he thought that nothing would be so unwise as to deal in a niggardly spirit with medical officers in such a climate as that of India. Those arrangements which would procure the most efficient medical officers for our troops in India would, in the end, he by far the cheapest arrangements this country could make.
 MR. MONSELL  said, that having listened attentively to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, he still entertained a belief that the object of the Bill was to get rid of a system which had been deliberately adopted by Parliament—the system of competition in the Indian medical service, and to substitute for it the arbitrary will of the Secretary of State. That was not an object which the House should sanction. It was said that there was a difficulty in getting medical officers for the Indian set vice, and the right hon. Gentleman told them that he was not going to get a worse class of officers than we had at present there. If so, there was no reason to depart from the present system. Let the right hon. Gentleman hold out proper temptations, and there would be a hundred candidates for each appointment. Either there was no reason for the Bill or the standard of efficiency was to be lowered. If, as the right hon. Gentleman assured them, he had introduced many important improvements in the condition of the Indian medical service there would be a sufficient number of candidates at, the next competitive examination. It was a mere question of demand and supply. If terms were proposed such as men of education could
 2038
 COLONEL SYKES  expressed his entire approval of a local medical staff in India, as preferable to putting so many thousands of recruits into the hands of inexperienced persons. At the same time, he denied that the service proposed by the right bon. Baronet was necessary, seeing that the medical service in India was fast improving. He disapproved altogether of the removal of the existing tests, and would point out that while the right hon. Gentleman proposed to form a staff corps, by drawing from Her Majesty's service, there were at the present moment no less than 200 vacancies in that service.
 MR. VANSITTART  said, he should
 2014
 MR. WATKIN  said, he wished to ask whether the reduction was proposed for the convenience of individual Members of that House. The public interest, he thought, would suffer by leaving Private Bills to be decided by Committees of only three Members, instead of five.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, he questioned very much the expediency of leaving engineering questions to be decided by Referees, and the other questions connected with Private Bills to the Members of the Select Committee. Experience had, he thought, proved that whenever the attempt had been made to divide a judicial inquiry into two parts to be dealt with by separate tribunals, the system had operated unsatisfactorily. He, however, did not intend to oppose the proposition of the hon. and gallant Member, but he thought that its practical effect would be to make these matters of inquiry more expensive and less satisfactory.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, that the explanation of the hon. and learned Attorney General appeared to be satisfactory as respected persons accused; but the convention also contained a provision that fugitives convicted of crime should be given up on a copy of the conviction being produced. Some further safeguards were necessary.
 MR. F. S. POWELL  said, he was unable to concur with the hon. Member for East Norfolk (Mr. Howes) in thinking that although at the earliest stages of the present system of education it was desirable that the Inspectors should act with entire independence and afford the fullest information, yet that we had now arrived at another era in the history of the movement when the Inspectors should not be free agents, and report according to their own discretion, but should only be the mere instruments and servants of the Department, expressing the opinions of the Committee of Privy Council only, and not their own. The Report of the Committee had been so lately circulated, that he did not think the House was acquainted with a letter dated August, 1863. It was stated in the Report that the House was aware of the system that had been pursued, the real fact being that neither the House nor the country was aware of that system until that Report was published. It had been generally supposed that a certain censorship was exercised over the Inspectors Reports, but that something of freedom was nevertheless allowed them, and that they were permitted to express opinions contrary to the judgment and practice of the Department. But in the letter of August, 1863, the Inspectors were informed that their practical suggestions for the improvement of the schools in their respective districts must he consistent with the existing Minutes, and the principle sanctioned by Parliament. Nothing had been allowed to appear in the Reports for that year which was contrary to the Minutes of Council. Take the case of the Factory Inspectors. One of those Inspectors recommended, the year before last, certain alterations in the factory system of Scotland, requiring a
 2079
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he would point out that the treaty between England and Prance, to which the hon. Member for Horsham (Mr. Seymour Fitzgerald) had adverted, was not that which was at present in force. The treaty to which the hon. Gentleman referred was that of 1843; whereas there was one of 1852, to which an Act giving effect had been passed in 1853.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the hon. Gentleman had recurred to a subject with regard to which the fullest information had been afforded last year. Every paper connected with the matter had been laid upon the table; the hon. Gentleman did not last year make the charge which he had just now made, and he (Sir George Grey) utterly disbelieved that there was any foundation whatever for it. The House was perfectly satisfied, when the subject was last year before it, with the explanation that had been given. The hon. Gentleman had said that Prussia had delivered up the Polish refugees under a treaty similar to that before the House. But had the hon. Gentleman compared both treaties? If he had he would admit the force of his argument; if not, he could not admit that it was good for anything.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, a correspondence had passed between Sir Thomas Larcom and himself on this subject, and he distinctly stated that the original letter was not in the Office. He was not prepared to say this was a copy of an original letter.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he believed they had begun by repealing the Standing Orders, and, if so, they had no machinery for dealing with private business.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, it was necessary that they should now adjourn the debate, because they were now passing Resolutions which seemed to be inconsistent with the existing Standing Orders, and they would have two different sets of rules at the same time.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, the Question was, the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock's Amendment, and not his past career at the. Poor Law Board. The Bill involved two important principles— the extension of uniform rating, and the transfer of the Poor Law affairs to the Metropolitan Board of Works. [Mr. C. P. VILLIERS: No!] He could not but regard these principles with apprehension and doubt. His noble Friend the Member for Stamford had described in touching terms the great evil which required to be remedied; but the greater the evil the more inexcusable was it in the right hon. Gentleman not to have brought forward the Bill at an earlier period. The Bill involved
 2051
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he had no wish to raise a factious opposition to the Bill; but he thought the House had a right to find fault with the President of the Poor Law Board for not having allowed more time for the consideration of the Bill, seeing that the Committee had reported so far back as May. He agreed with the noble Lord the Member for Stamford (Lord R. Cecil) as to the awkward position in which the House was placed. It was easy to say that those who objected to the Bill were wanting in proper feeling towards the casual poor, but there was no ground whatever for that assertion. The right hon. Gentleman urged that there was nothing for it but to bring in a Bill of that kind, the District Asylum Act having failed; but the reason why that Act failed was because it was permissive merely, and the right hon. Gentleman should have introduced a Bill to make it compulsory. That Act, as he believed, worked very well, till one Metropolitan Union made an objection, and directions were thereupon given that no further steps should be taken in the matter. He could not help suspecting that the Bill before the House was an attempt to get in the thin edge of the wedge, and that sooner or later it would be sought to have a district rating for the whole of the metropolis. One great objection which he had to the measure was that under it the money would not be expended by those who paid and who had an incentive to check its improper application, Moreover, the Bill went in direct opposition to the 90th clause of the Metropolis Local Management Act, which expressly provided that the Metropolitan Board of Works should have nothing whatever to do with the funds raised for the relief of the poor; and he was glad that that Board had upon consideration decided, by however small a majority, against its being mixed
 2052
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he wished to put a Question with reference to the enormous traffic which passes through Park Lane into Piccadilly. As the Metropolitan Board of Works had given in writing to the right hon. Gentleman the First Commissioner of Works their opinion, that the best mode of facilitating that traffic would be the opening of Hamilton Place, and as the houses in that place were Crown property, he would beg to ask, Whether the right hon. Gentleman has considered the matter, and, if so, what course he, as representative of the Crown, intends to take in reference to it; whether he is prepared to assist the Metropolitan Board, they being responsible for compensation to the Crown tenants?
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he wished to ask, whether the Standing Orders had been repealed or not?
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that believing that some time should be given for the consideration of the proposed changes, he would move the adjournment of the debate until to-morrow.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he thought the decision of a Committee of three would have as much, if not greater, weight than that of five, because of the responsibility being less divided.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he could not help thinking that so important a subject should have been brought forward earlier in the year, and be suspected that, considering the period of the Session, and the attendance at the Committee, they had arrived at what was rather a foregone conclusion. He confessed that he had no great hope that the new system would lead to any reduction in expense. He even feared it would be attended with the opposite result. The hon. and gallant Gentleman had, however, in some degree disarmed opposition by pledging himself to move the repeal of the Resolutions if they did not prove effectual in saving the time of the House and the money of suitors.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, of course the Irish Office was responsible. He was responsible for it to that House.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he believed he might state that if the letter dated the 4th October was a copy of an original, its authenticity might be asserted. Thirty years ago was rather a long time to carry inquiries back, and to speak with accuracy on such a matter.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, he also would express a hope that the right hon. Baronet would not attempt to force the Bill through during that Session. The House should regard with jealousy any measure which tended in the smallest degree to destroy the competitive examination system.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, he did not believe that the decision of a smaller number would carry so much weight as that of a greater number. He would also point out that if the reduced Commit tees were to be selected, as at present, from all the Members of the House, the inexperienced would rely upon the more experienced, and thus upon the Chairman of a Committee would devolve most of the labour and responsibility of the inquiry.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, he understood his hon. and gallant Friend to undertake that if the new plan was not found satisfactory he would propose its repeal. He was, however, afraid that it was exactly in the fact that it was an experiment that the real danger lay, and that it might be the first step towards taking away from the Committees of that House their jurisdiction over Private Bills.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, he thought there was great force in what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman (Sir Francis Goldsmid). In foreign countries a man might be convicted of crime in his absence  par contumace.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, he begged to point out that there was a most extraordinary difference between the convention with France and that before the House, and the hon. and learned Gentleman, when he said that the cases were exactly similar was entirely in error. According to the clause of the Bill before them a fugitive convicted of crime might be given up on authentic proof of the conviction and identity of the party. Now, in the 6 & 7  Vict, 2067
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he wished to explain. He had stated that the present treaty was the same as other extradition treaties, and, as a proof of the safeguards which the treaty gave to persons claimed, he stated that with regard to the treaty with France difficulties had arisen about giving up a man because oral proof had not been given that the man had committed a crime in France which in England would justify his committal.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I think the explanation given by my hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General ought to be sufficient. It is not true, as has been supposed, that a Foreign Government would send here and claim a man, requiring that a statement of his guilt should be taken without any further inquiry, and that its own explanation of its own law is td be the rule according to which a man should be given up. The treaty requires that proof shall be given to satisfy a magistrate that if the offence charged had been committed in this country, it would, according to our law, justify the committal of the man. Therefore, that clearly excludes any foreign interpretation of any crime under which a man can be claimed under the treaty in question. This treaty is exactly the same with what has been concluded with Denmark. I may state from my own knowledge, that in regard to the treaty with France difficulties have arisen, and complaints have been made by the French Government in consequence of the conditions attached to the delivery of the man. We have required that witnesses should come over, and that oral testimony should be given to prove that the man has committed in France a crime which in England would justify his committal. The French Government required that written documents should be sufficient. But this we have not admitted, and that has sometimes prevented our delivering up a French criminal claimed by the French Government. It is quite clear that no political offender could be claimed under this treaty. As to the notion that the fact of a man having been concerned in an insurrection would bring him in this country under the description of a murderer, that is really not for a; moment to be entertained. The laws of this country would not construe that to be murder which is simply being engaged in civil war against the Government of the country. Therefore, there can be no sort of apprehension that this treaty could be used for the purpose of enabling Foreign Governments—whether Prussia, or Russia, or any other—to claim a political offender. As to the assertion of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Hennessy) that political
 2064
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I can assure my hon. Friend that Her Majesty's Government deeply lament the great sac-
 2019
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : As there appears to be some doubt about the treaties, I have no objection to the adjournment of the debate.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I rise, Sir, to ask this House to do an act of generosity and of justice. This House is one of the highest authorities in the realm. There is, technically speaking, no appeal from its decision. But if by circumstances it should have been led to do that which is not founded in justice, there is an appeal which I am sure must always be successful when made. We know that the approval of the House of Commons is one of the highest objects of ambition to every man
 2068 2069 "That this House, having considered the Report of the Select Committee appointed to inquire into the practice of the Committee of Council on Education with respect to the Reports of Her Majesty's Inspectors of Schools, is of opinion that the Resolution passed on the 12th day of April last, with reference to such Reports, ought
 2070
 MR. PEEL  said, in reply, that it was proposed to have an inquiry into the charges made against Mr. Moran; and the Master of the Rolls in this country, at the request of the Government, had selected Mr. Duffus Hardy and Mr. Brewer to conduct the inquiry. These gentlemen were very competent persons for the task, and they were likely to commence their inquiry during the present week.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that after the exhaustive statement of his right hon. and learned Friend he should not have risen but that the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite had raised an important legal and constitutional question. It so happened that the last of these so-called petitions of right was presented by Mr. O'Malley Irwin in the time of his immediate predecessor, who added another to the numerous Attorney Generals who had all felt it to be absolutely inconsistent with their duty to endorse the fiat on a petition of right of that description. He could assure the House that the position taken by the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite went to subvert the most fundamental principles of our law. Let him take the dates and facts from Mr. Irwin's own statement. Mr. Irwin himself said that in July, 1844, he transmitted through Sir William Follett, then Attorney General, his petition of right to the Secretary of State. He was informed there had been an earlier petition of right which Sir Frederick Pollock did not think fit to direct to be fiated. But Sir William Follett was of opinion that it was no petition of right at all, and accordingly nothing was done upon it. In 1852, when Mr. Walpole was Secretary of State, and Sir Frederick Thesiger and Sir Fitzroy Kelly were the Attorney and the Solicitor Generals, Mr. Irwin again renewed his attempt. It was a mere matter of course that when that which called itself a petition of right came to the Home Office it should be laid before the Attorney General to ascertain whether he would advise the usual endorsements to be
 2120 2121 Blackstone "Petition of right is of use where the King is in full possession of any hereditaments or chattels, and the petitioner suggests such a right as controverts the title of the Crown, grounded on facts disclosed in the petition itself." Blackstone "The King can do no wrong, which ancient and fundamental maxim is not to be understood as if every transaction by the Government was of course just and lawful, but means only two things —first, whatever is exceptionable in the conduct of public affairs is not to be imputed to the King, nor is he answerable for it personally to his people; for this doctrine would destroy the constitutional independence of the Crown; and, secondly, that the prerogative of the Crown extends not to do any injury." "This maxim has been constantly recognized, and the notion of making the King responsible in damages for a supposed wrong tends to conse-
 2122 "Is it supposed that the Crown is responsible for the conduct of all persons holding public offices and appointments, and bound to make good any loss or injury which may be occasioned by their negligence or delinquency? At least some authority should be cited in support of such a I doctrine.…  Stamford Year Books, "To these reasons and authorities we would add an opinion, that there is good ground for maintaining that which we find to be the law on this subject. We think that if each of the Queen's subjects who believed he had been at any time in any reign wronged in the administration of civil or military affairs could sue the Sovereign for the time being for the amount at which he might
 2123 "And we refer to the petition of right adduced in evidence in 'Irwin  v. Fost. Fin. "If ever a trial at law were won by the plaintiff, and proved by the defendant for the plaintiff, the case of 'Clare  v. v. v. in toto. v. v. 2124 v. "1. To see that I am settled with in full, with interest, for my patents and inventions, both for the past and for the future, and that all my claims for losses that have accrued to me by the Admiralty withholding from me the payment of my just rights, along with all the expenses I have been put to in developing and promoting this great modern question of metal shipbuilding, and the legal charges contingent on this case to be paid me. 2. That my knowledge shall be set free throughout the Royal Dockyards, and that I am remunerated in accordance with my capabilities upon a percentage on outlay. 3. That the appointment of Naval Mechanical Constructor to the British nation, with hereditary title, in unison with the paramount importance of my patents and inventions to Great Britain, be granted to me, per patent, 4. That hereditary titles be presented to those gentlemen who have so nobly stood by me on public grounds during my oppression from the Admiralty, to their eternal fame—namely, Mr. W. Titherington, of Dee Hills, Chester, and Mr. Edwin Haigh, of Cote Brook, Tarporley. 5. That your Majesty disqualify Sir Alexander James Edmund Cockburn, the Lord Chief Justice of England. 6. Ex-office Mr. Collier as Solicitor General, and withdraw his patent as Q. C. 7. Withdraw the patent of Q.C. from Sir William Atherton. 8. Cause the Lord Chancellor to disbar Sir W. Atherton, Mr. Collier, Mr. West, and Mr. Macrory,"
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether he has received a document entitled "Terms of Peace," bearing the signature of Mr. Fox, a Member of the Executive Council in New Zealand, and threatening extreme penalties on all Natives who shall not accede to the said terms; and whether he is aware that this Proclamation was issued and circulated in New Zealand without the cognizance of the Queen's Representative in that Colony?
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, that he only proposed to accomplish by the Bill the special object set forth in its clauses. He certainly had no intention of sanctioning by the measure the principle of the equalization of the rating for the relief of the poor throughout the metropolis.
 MR. CARDWELL,  in reply, said, he had received no such Proclamation, nor had he received from the Governor of New Zealand any complaint that such a Proclamation had been published without his authority.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that this question was one not of politics but of law. A reference was made by the Governor of Sierra Leone to the person named by the hon. and learned Member; and that reference having been answered, the answer was laid last year, with other papers, on the table of the House. In the course of the year the solicitor of another party applied to him, as Colonial Secretary, for an order for the production of the paper in question. He had fortified himself with the opinion of the Law Officers of the Crown, which was to the effect that the communication was privileged, and would not be called for by any court of law. He intended, therefore, to leave the question to the decision of the court of law, with whose province it was not for him to interfere. The hon. and learned Gentleman said the court of law at Sierra Leone was not fit to decide the matter, but he did not believe that. If it was not fit to decide that question, it was not fit to be a Court of Justice for the decision of any question.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he wished to call the attention of the Secretary of State for the Home Department to a paragraph which has appeared in some of the morning papers in reference to the flogging of two garotters in a prison in the county of Durham. The circumstances of the case he said were extremely brutalizing, and he wished to know if the Government will make some inquiry in reference to the subject?
 MR. HADFIELD  said, that to demands at law there was a statutable limitation of six years. He thought there ought to be some such limitation in respect to demands on Parliament. If they heard claims of thirty years' standing, why not hear those of 300? He was surprised that, after the lapse of thirty years, so satisfactory an answer could have been given to the present case.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the Order was set down for the six o'clock sitting, but it should be remembered that there was no power to vary the Standing Orders of the House. As an Order of the Day, it could only come on after all the Notices had been disposed of, which, he thought, would have created more inconvenience to hon. Members than the course which had been subsequently adopted. He understood the hon. and gallant Gentleman to say that he had foreseen the inconvenience himself, and to declare that it would be more suitable for his purpose that the matter should stand over as the first thing on Wednesday. Consequently at that morning's sitting a
 2107
 MR. HENNESSY,  in reply, said he wished to say a few words, both on the question of fact and the question of law. He again quoted to the House the opinion of the late Mr. O'Connell, who had been employed by Mr. Irwin as counsel in the case, to the effect that he was entitled to proceed by petition of right. Mr. Kemmis's statement of the case was totally false. That document was prepared for Lord John Russell, and was minuted by him, but it contained a grave misstatement of fact. [The hon. and learned Gentleman here quoted some documents which bore
 2126
 MR. HENNESSY  rose to call the attention of the House to one of the most extraordinary cases ever brought before Parliament, and he should conclude by moving that a certain petition of right might receive the fiat of the Queen, The case of Mr. O'Malley Irwin was one of gross and grievous injustice; and the statement which he (Mr. Hennessy) was about to make would, he believed, convince the House that this injustice had been suffered for the last thirty years through the culpable neglect of the Officers of the Crown. Mr. O'Malley Irwin, who in the year 1834 had been receiving seven guineas a day for performing judicial functions as deputy assistant barrister in Ireland, in the year 1835 was tried on a charge of forgery, was convicted, was imprisoned for nine months, and fined £50 —all this being attributable to the fact that a certain important letter had been kept back at his trial by the Officers of the Crown. In 1840 the late Mr. O'Connell gave a professional opinion on the case, and stated, after carefully investigating all the documents, that Mr. Irwin was entitled to have his petition of right fiated owing to the loss of a letter of the 12th of October, 1834. That letter was written by Mr. Robert Johnston, who was the Assistant Barrister, Mr. O'Malley Irwin being his deputy. The letter which Mr. Irwin was charged with forging was dated Mr. Speaker
 2108 primâ facie "Sir—Your letter of the 3rd inst was delivered to Mr. Craig by Mr. Irwin only yesterday evening. I am commanded by the Lord Lieutenant to express his regret that the state of your health is such as to render it necessary for you to resign the situation of assistant barrister for the county of Mayo. That part of your letter in which yon express your hope that the number of years you have discharged the duties of that office will be considered by his Excellency as constituting a claim to the retiring pension of an as-
 2109 Sir,—I have had the honour of your favour of the 7th inst., having been addressed to Castlebar, only reached me the 12th. Your letter of the 8th, addressed to Thomas Gildea, Esq., the Clerk of the Peace, from his illness, not being able as yet to attend here, had received from him on the evening of the 10th. I had, consequently, sat two days in Crown business before any communication on the subject of my retirement. Your letter of the 8th, which I received, expressed Mr. King's appointment only to be temporary. Mr. Morris King arrived here on Friday, the 10th inst., and notified his appointment to me, which having forwarded, I have signified my retirement to him, and requested he would take up the civil business to-morrow. Your letter of the 7th, in a great measure insuring my retiring pension, is of the greatest satisfaction to me. I beg leave to express my most grateful thanks to his Excellency for the kind expressions concerning me on my retiring. I shall forward by to-morrow's post, not having time this day, the date of my appointment and my claim to the pension." "The foregoing copies of the letters of the 3rd and 12th of October, 1834, have been made from copies in the Chief Secretary's office, the originals not being in the office. The letter of the 12th of October was abstracted from the Crown Solicitor's papers during the trial of Mr. O'Malley Irwin, in 1835, for forgery of the letter of tin1 3rd of October, and has never been recovered." 2110 2111 sub pœnâ duces tecum, nil 2112 "After the passing of the Act of Parliament, for which the country was indebted to his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Guildford (Mr. Bovill), Mr. O'Malley Irwin caused to be prepared for presentation to Her Majesty a Petition of Right; but the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department felt it to be his duty to advise the Crown to withhold its fiat to that Petition of Right, and Mr. O'Malley Irwin was again baffled in his endeavours to procure justice. Now he (Sir FitzRoy Kelly) was prepared to maintain, as a proposition founded upon the constitution and the law of this country, that it was not competent or consistent with the duty of any officer of the Crown to advise the Queen to withhold her fiat to any Petition of Right upon any ground, whether right or wrong, whether well or ill founded. Such an interference was only to be justified in a case where a petition appeared to be founded on fraud, or upon gross and manifest error." [3  Hansard, 2113 Prerogative, Exchequer Practice, ex debito justitiœ, "That a humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that She will be graciously pleased to grant Her Fiat to the Petition of Right of George O'Malley Irwin, esquire, or to satisfy his claims without suit."
 MR. HENNESSY  read a letter signed "S. H. Walpole," which enclosed the documents when that right hon. Gentleman was Secretary of State for the Home Department, addressed to Mr. O'Malley Irwin.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he would withdraw his Motion.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he wished to put a Question to the Secretary of State for the Colonies which required a few words of explanation to make it intelligible, and in order that he might be regular he intended to conclude with a Motion. There was at Sierra Leone some time ago a gentleman of colour, named Fitzjames, a very respectable man, who had been called to the bar by the Middle Temple, had been first Law Officer of the Crown at Sierra Leone, and had acted for a time as Governor. The Governor of Sierra Leone, entertaining some hostility towards this gentleman, had used means to get rid of him, and the Colonial Office had lent themselves to that unworthy proceeding. In a Return, which he had moved for, and which had been presented to that House relating to the matter, statements were made by a Dr. Bradshaw aspersing the character of two respectable inhabitants of Sierra Leone. In order to try the merits of the case these two gentlemen had instituted proceedings against Dr. Bradshaw, and to prove the libel they wanted the original documents containing the libellous statements. The originals were in the hands of the Government of Sierra Leone, and the copies in the hands of the Colonial Office here. He wished, therefore, to ask, Whether the right hon. Gentleman would order that these papers, the contents of which had been circulated by the House, should be really at the command of the persons who wished to try by a jury whether they had been libelled or not? Perhaps the right hon. Gentleman might say that if the Court at Sierra Leone demanded these papers they would be given, but that without such a demand they would not. But he would impress on the right hon. Gentleman that a Judge at Sierra Leone was not in the independent position of a Judge at Westminster Hall, and would fear to do anything contrary to the wish of the Governor. He wished, therefore, to ask, whether the right hon. Gentleman will
 2104
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  expressed his regret that this business had been placed on the paper for six o'clock, and that hon. Members had been put to some inconvenience by its postponement.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, that the right hon. Baronet was in error in saying what he intended to do. He had suggested that it might be irregular to fix six o'clock for taking the adjourned debate, and stated that if that were so he should have no objection that it should go over till Wednesday. But he that morning found the Order set down for that day, and he had, in consequence, made arrangements to proceed with it that day. He, therefore, suffered as much inconvenience as other hon. Members on finding it postponed to Wednesday.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he had been pressed very urgently not to lose the chance of bringing on this business in the present Session, and therefore it would be taken on Wednesday as fixed.
 MR. RICHARD HODGSON  said, he wished to put a Question with regard to an alteration which had taken place in the arrangement of the business on the Order paper for this evening. Yesterday certain Resolutions relating to the revision of the Standing Orders on Private Business were fixed for further consideration at six o'clock to-night, and many hon. Members had come down to the House to take part in the discussion. It appeared, however, that at the morning sitting to-day, without notice to the hon. and gallant Member for North Lancashire, who had brought forward the
 2106
 MR. MALINS  also complained of the course which had been adopted, and stated that he had come down to the House to consider this business, and then found that it had been postponed until the morrow, when he would not be able to attend.
 MR. MALINS  said, that the case of Mr. O'Malley Irwin, as brought forward by his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the King's County, if not contradicted, would have required some consideration; but when it appeared from the statement of the Attorney General for Ireland, that
 2125
 MR. T. J. MILLER  said, he had no intention of opposing the Bill, but he felt hound to protest against the principle involved in it, and he begged to express a hope that the measure would not be cited as a precedent for future legislation.
 MR. O'HAGAN  (THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND) said, that his hon. and
 2114 2115 2116 certiorari, "Without impugning in the remotest degree the verdict of a jury or the decision of the Court of King's Bench, which sanctioned that verdict, I beg leave most respectfully to submit, in order to justify your compliance, that the prosecution
 2117 Non est reus si mens non est rea; le droit du plus fort. "I am, gentlemen, your most obedient and humble servant, "GEO. O'MALLEY IRWIN. "To the Law Advisers of the Crown, Chief Secretary's Department, Dublin Castle." "In the present case the prisoner has been detained nearly two months in default of payment of the fine, and though I would not have considered a more lengthened imprisonment than that to which he was sentenced too severe punishment for his offence, I would recommend that he be discharged if he is not able to pay the fine." 2118 2119
 MR. FERRAND  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether Messrs. Rawlinson and Beardmore, the Government Engineers, did not report to him that the bursting of the Sheffield Reservoir was caused by the fracture of the outlet pipes under the embankment; whether these outlet pipes have not been examined since their Report and found uninjured and undisturbed; and, if so, whether it is not necessary for the safety of the public that a Commission should be immediately appointed to inquire into the making of Reservoir Embankments?
 MR. FERRAND  said, he wished to know whether the Government intend appointing a Commission?
 MR. FERRAND  said, he would also ask whether the right hon. Gentleman is aware that the lives of thousands of people are now endangered by the state of these Reservoirs, and that great anxiety naturally prevails to know whether anything will be done before Parliament separates?
 MR. MONSELL  said, he wished to ask, Whether the Commission relating to the Public Records of Ireland has been issued, and if so how soon it is likely to report?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  stated, that perhaps the right hon. Gentleman the Member for North Lancashire (Colonel Wilson Patten) would be able to answer the Question. He understood that when the adjournment of this private business was fixed for six o'clock that day, it was suggested that it would be better to fix it for twelve o'clock, because it could not otherwise come on till after the Motions were disposed of. He was under the impression that his hon. and gallant Friend had stated that he could not bring it on until twelve o'clock on Wednesday.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he did not know what inquiry the hon. Gentleman wished him to make, for the infliction of this punishment was strictly in accordance with the Act passed last Session. By that Act the Judge specified the number of lashes to be inflicted, and the instrument which was to be used on the occasion, and doubtless there had been no departure from the law in this case. The punishment, of course, could not be otherwise than disagreeable.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Such a Commission as is suggested by the hon. Member for Bradford, and to which I suppose
 2103
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I do not think that there will be any necessity for a formal Commission. Two or three engineers of experience might be consulted on the matter; but the Question is still under consideration.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, as the Report of Messrs. Rawlinson and Beard-more has been presented to the House, and has been printed and circulated, any hon. Member can refer to it for himself. But I do not find in it the statement ascribed to them in the question of the hon. Gentleman. They did not pretend to state precisely what was the cause of the accident. But they did say that, in their opinion, what they considered the objectionable mode of laying the outlet pipes most probably fractured not the pipes, but the puddle wall at the point of crossing. I do not know whether the pipes have been since examined, but if they have, and have been found uninjured, that would not be inconsistent with Messrs. Rawlinson and Beardmore's Report. I have already said that the possibility of laying down some general rule in future Waterworks Acts will be considered.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he wished to say one or two words with reference to the use which had been made by the hon. and learned Gentleman of the documents from which he had just quoted. From what had been stated by the hon. and learned Gentleman they appeared to be official documents, some of them confidential communications between the Private Secretary of Lord John Russell and the Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant. One of these documents bore the endorsement of the Secretary of State for the Home Department, and they must have been abstracted from the office of the Secretary of State. He did not ask the hon. and learned Gentleman how he obtained possession of them, for no doubt they came to him through Mr. O'Malley Irwin. How Mr. O'Malley Irwin could come by them he did not understand; but he hoped the example set by the hon. and learned Gentleman of quoting from such private and confidential documents in that House would not be drawn into a precedent.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that he was quite sure his right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge could not have placed documents of that kind at
 2127
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  asked, with regard to what had occurred, and believing that there would not be a sufficient attendance on Wednesday, whether it would not be better to postpone the Order until Thursday, or until next Session? [ Cries of
 MR. LINDSAY  supported the clause, which he said would promote the general trade of the port of London.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, that when this subject was last before the House, they were discussing the Amendments to the seventh Standing Order, and several hon. Members who had voted against the adoption of three as the number of Members to serve on Private Bill Committees, had since informed him that they had done so under the belief that the number ought to continue to be five, and that they did not wish that the number should be fixed at four—the number which was substituted. But he had introduced various changes in the Resolutions for the purpose of making the other Orders conformable to the recent decision of the House, and he was afraid that he would not have time, before the close of the Session, to re-alter the scheme with a view to have the number fixed at three. Under these circumstances he would suggest to hon. Members that the best course to pursue would be to allow four to stand, for the present, as the number of the Committee. It would then be open for any hon. Member to move any alteration of the Resolutions he might think proper at the commencement of next Session; and upon that subject he bad to remind the House that there would be ample time for the adoption of such a course, inasmuch as no Committee would be appointed until three weeks after Parliament had re-assembled. In conclusion, he had to propose that Resolution 7 should be left as it then stood.
 MR. WARNER  said, he did not mean to oppose that proposal; but he wished to give notice that on the consideration of the Standing Orders at the commencement of next Session, he would move that the number of Members serving on Private Bill Committees should be reduced from four to three.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he should wish to make a few remarks upon the general way in which the Private Bill business of the House was conducted. He fully agreed that it was necessary that some alteration should be made, but he thought that the hon. and gallant Member was proceeding in a wrong direction. It had been proposed that Private Bills should, in the first instance, undergo an inquiry by a body of Referees, one of whom was to be an
 2132 bonâ, fide 2133
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  suggested that it would be convenient if Members would confine their remarks to the question before them, which was that the number of the Committee should remain for the present four.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the best time to introduce the general discussion on the Question would be on the Order as to Referees.
 MR. MASSEY  said, that there was nothing in the Order to designate the character of the Referees. He thought it undesirable that they should be Members of the House, and would therefore propose to introduce the words "not being Members of this House."
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  quite ac-
 2134
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he understood that his hon. and gallant Friend had, on a former occasion, expressed his opinion that one of the Referees should be an engineer; he did not, however, state whether he meant a civil or a military engineer. If the former, it was quite clear that the engineer should be one of the second or third class, for a first class engineer could scarcely afford to give up his time to the discharge of such duties. If, however, his hon. and gallant Friend meant that he should be a military engineer, the civil engineers would say that he was not practically conversant with the important questions that would be submitted to him.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, if his hon. Friend looked at the proposed Order he would find that it did not provide for the appointment of an engineer as one of the Referees. He (Colonel Wilson Patten) had alluded merely to the possibility of one of those Referees being an engineer. He recollected the case of a Committee sitting for nine days on the consideration of an engineering question, and at the end of that time they were obliged to ask the Government to lend them an engineer to help them in their difficulty. The request having been complied with, the Government engineer settled the matters at issue within forty-eight hours, to the satisfaction of all parties. The result was the construction of the celebrated tubular bridge over the Menai. There was no necessity to mention an engineer at all in the Orders, but he had no doubt the Speaker would exercise his discretion in the appointment of such an officer in whom they would all have confidence.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, a great complaint was made about the pressure of Private business, but he himself had not served on a Committee for three years, and he could not help thinking that if the labour was more fairly distributed among Members there would be less dissatisfaction. He believed it would greatly facilitate business if, at the close of an inquiry into the merits of each Bill that occupied any considerable time, one or two Members of the Committee were relieved by fresh Members. The proposed Referees would practically supersede the Select Committees altogether, for if they discharged the duties sought to be confided to them there would hardly be anything left for
 2135
 MR. AYRTON  said, that the Chairman of Committee of Ways and Means had proposed an Amendment to prevent any other Member of that House except himself from being a Referee. It was difficult to understand how that hon. Gentleman should himself have proposed such an extraordinary Amendment. Let them look for a moment at what would be its effect. The Speaker was to appoint the Referees. It was not provided that they should be officers of that House, but it was intended that they should be divided into several courts; and, as the Chairman of Committees of Ways and Means could only be Chairman of one of those courts, the result would be that other courts would be set up in no way connected with that House, and in which
 2136 2137
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, no two Members appeared to be of the same opinion with regard to the description of persons who should be appointed Referees. One suggested engineers, another barristers of seven years' standing, and the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets that one of them should be a Member of that House. He (Mr. Baillie) thought there would be great difficulty in getting any hon. Member to undertake so onerous a duty. He was disposed to agree with the hon. Baronet the Member for Finsbury, that the vast amount of private business arose from the laxity with which the Standing Orders of the House were carried out. In practice they acted as a positive encouragement for bringing forward schemes for the sole purpose of being afterwards disposed of. He did not think the proposed change would be found to work successfully.
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, his experience of Private Bill Committees was that the time of the Committee and the money of the parties were frequently wasted in the process of proving matters which might be proved before the parties went before the Committee at all. Engineers were called to contradict engineers, and much needless expense was incurred in consequence. Great saving of time and money would be obtained by a preliminary inquiry before Referees, and there would be no necessity for having questions re-opened after the Referees had reported. It had been stated that an inquiry in the last Session had cost over £60,000—and he would venture to say that one half of the money was spent in proving facts that might have been previously established. There was not a strict analogy between these Com-
 2138
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, that besides saving the time of the House, hon. Members should see that they also saved the time and the pockets of the public. But he did not see how this was to be effected by the establishment of a third tribunal, which might have no effect in the other House, and would, in his judgment, both increase the expense, and waste the time of the public. Referees were to be appointed to go into the details now investigated by ten or a dozen Committees. Committees often neglected details for want of time; and no three men could do ten times the work so neglected by the Committees. It was out of the question, It was proposed further that three Referees should enter into traffic and engineering details, which sometimes took six weeks in one particular case. In his opinion, the only way of reforming the procedure in Private legislation was for the two Houses to concur in a mode of saving time and expense.
 MR ROEBUCK  doubted, whether the mere fragment of the House of Commons which remained on that, the almost last day of the Session, was in a position safely to alter the whole Private legislation of the country. Was it decent? He would appeal to the noble Lord at the head of the Government, whether at so late a period so great a change should be made? It would be better to defer the subject to the early part of the next Session, in a full and fresh House. The hon. and learned Member moved that the Debate be adjourned for a month.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  seconded the Motion. As there was a probability of a general election early next year, and the greater portion of the metropolitan lines were now conceded, he thought it likely that the Notices for Private Bills next November would be comparatively
 2139
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  also thought it would be best to let the subject stand over until next Session. He was prepared to agree to a reduction in the number of the members of Select Committees, but the question of appointing Referees required further consideration. He thought that the appointment of Referees to sit simultaneously with Committees would add to the complexity of Private business, and would certainly not diminish the expense. At the same time he could not see why the parties should not be required to agree upon certain facts, such as the population of towns, distances, &c, the inquiry into which under the present system greatly lengthened the sittings of Committees.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  hoped the House would not adopt the Amendment of the hon. and learned Gentleman. Very many equally important measures were passed by more thinly attended Houses than the present. It was singular that the hon. Baronet the Member for Westminster should support a further postponement, because it was at his suggestion that the subject had been referred to a Committee. The hon. Baronet also nominated three Members to serve upon that Committee, but neither of those Members had suggested any objections, and even the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets allowed the report to be passed unanimously. He had no special affection for his own proposition, and had only brought it forward under the belief that it would tend to the public advantage. Reference had been made to the desirability of equalizing the labour thrown upon Members by serving upon the Select Committee, but he could assure the House that the Committee of selection endeavoured as much as possible to divide the labour. The hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets, who ought, perhaps, to have made his suggestion in the Select Committee, alleged that these propositions, if carried, would lower the authority of the House of Commons. It was difficult to understand how that could be, seeing that the House of Lords, as well as that House, now referred two branches of Private Bills to Commissioners
 2140
 MR. LOWE  hoped the House would not hastily reject a carefully considered proposition, which was placed before them upon great authority, and which was called for by a serious emergency. The hon. and learned Member for Sheffield was in error in supposing that the House would resume this question with equal effect at the beginning of next Session. If Parliament meant to keep the Private business in its own hands, some material changes in the mode of managing it must be made, and, above all, the serious defect of having the same case tried twice over by two independent tribunals. The main objection urged against the plan of Joint Committees of the two Houses was, that it would be impossible for the other House to furnish its due proportion of working Members to sit upon these Committees. It was therefore obvious that the first thing to be done was to reduce within manageable limits the amount of business to be thrown upon the Committees, and the question then arose how could that reduction be brought about. It would be impossible to introduce anything in the nature of pleadings without increasing the existing confusion. The only way was to require that measurable and ascertainable facts, such as engineering works, traffic, &c should be inquired into primarily and agreed upon, and that duty could best be performed by persons whom experience would render familiar with such details. The effect of such a plan would be to diminish the amount of labour now cast upon Members of the House, but if the House rejected this Referee proposal he did not see how the amount of business was to be reduced.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  feared that if the Motion for postponement was agreed to there would be nothing done in this matter for a couple of years, inasmuch as there was every probability of a general election next year. He, however, hoped that some further explanation would be
 2141
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he thought the House was much indebted to the hon. and gallant Gentleman for the pains he had taken with regard to this matter. There was a great deal to be said in favour of the scheme now under consideration, but at the same time he was fully alive to the fact that this was the last day but one of the Session, and that much might be said against as well as for the plan. There appeared to be doubts in the minds of many hon. Members who had expressed their opinions, as to whether this was the best scheme that could be desired, and whether it might not be possible to devise some other mode of management. The hon. and gallant Gentleman told them the Committee had been unanimous in their opinion upon these propositions, and if the hon. and gallant Gentleman should think it right to take the sense of the House upon them, the Members of the Government could not, in fairness, vote against them. He would, however, put it to the hon. and gallant Gentleman as a matter of discretion as well as of expediency, whether it would not be the better course to consent to postpone dealing with the subject until another Session? It would not be prejudicial to the plan to consent to such a postponement, for it must be borne in mind that there was always at the beginning of a Session a certain interval before Public business could be commenced, and that interval would afford a convenient opportunity of considering the best mode of dealing with the Private business.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he was always desirous of yielding, if possible, to the noble Lord's opinion, but in this instance the noble Lord was mistaken as to the effect of a postponement. To defer dealing with this subject until next Session, meant putting it off until the year 1866. There would be Referees to be appointed and rules to be drawn up which would prevent any action being taken next Session upon the Resolutions, if agreed to. He should leave it to the House to decide whether this subject should be now dealt with, or be put off for another year.
 MR. MASSEY  hoped that three Members would be appointed on the Committee
 2142
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  hoped that the Chairman of Ways and Means would not think it necessary to press his Amendment, as Members of the House might be found willing to act as Referees without payment, and it would be unadvisable to pass a Resolution precluding their appointment.
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  wished to know if the court would be open to the public. He believed that the public, whose interests were concerned, would not have the same confidence in a body of paid Commissioners as they would in a court formed of Members of that House, from whom they would be more apt to expect an impartial verdict.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, that the public would have access to the court as they now had to the Committees.
 MR. ROEBUCK  wished to know, whether the House was prepared to give power to any person to establish rules which they would not alter in the event of their being disapproved of by the House, because, if such rules should be made in the vacation, they would come into operation before the House met next Session?
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  suggested to the hon. Member for Sheffield the advisability of urging his objection when the clause to which he referred came on for discussion.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  did not know how the House was to acknowledge the proceedings of any of those courts which were not presided over by one of their own Members. He thought it better that that question should be left an open one.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he was willing to let that question remain an open one.
 MR. MASSEY  said, he would withdraw his Amendment, as he found that the sense of the House was in favour of the matter being left open.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  wished to call the attention of the House to the fact that, at present, the suggestion was that the Chairman of Ways and Means and three Referees should form two courts, so that the casting vote in either court must necessarily be exercised by the chairman in case of any difference of opinion between himself and the other Referee. This was the more to be regretted as the subjects to be decided by these courts were such as to involve much litigation and expense, and the Howe would find the same
 2143
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  would agree to the suggestion of the hon. Member.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  suggested the omission of the words "two at least to constitute each court."
 MR. ROEBUCK  then moved in the place of the word "two" in line 4, to insert "three."
 MR. SPEAKER  would point out to the House that such a Resolution would be tantamount to a direction to the Speaker to appoint five Referees instead of three as at present suggested.
 MR. ROEBUCK  observed, that in order to constitute two courts there must be six persons appointed.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, the Order was to appoint not less than three persons.
 MR. MASSEY  said, it would be necessary to divide the Referees into two courts, in case the business should be too heavy for one to dispose of. He thought it would be unwise for the House to put an absolute prohibition upon the action of Mr. Speaker. A second court was only to be opened when the business was too much for one.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, that if only one court was to be opened it would be better for it to be composed of three Referees, because if the court were composed of four, the Chairman would have a casting vote. Mr. Speaker's power of appointment would be exhausted in the first instance, unless they inserted the words "from time to time."
 MR. MASSEY  said, that the power of making further appointments was already provided for by the words "for such period as he shall think fit."
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, he would move a proviso in reference to the second court, that the Chairman should be a Member of the House.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  thought that his hon. Friend was raising difficulties which would never occur. If they provided for every little difficulty, the occurrence of which was only possible, there
 2144
 MR. INGHAM  was of opinion that there was no necessity for the Chairman of the second court being a Member of the House.
 SIR MORTON PETO  cited the example of the hon. Member for Ipswich (Mr. Adair), whom no amount of work appeared to frighten.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  would suggest that no such Referee, if a Member of the House, should receive a salary.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that the Chairman of Ways and Means was empowered in his absence to appoint one of the Referees to supply his place, and he thought that the Referee so appointed ought also to be a Member of the House.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  then moved, that the Chairman of the second court should be a Member of the House.
 MR. LOWE  regarded this Amendment as equivalent to resisting the formation of any second court at all, because he did not believe they would find a Member willing to undertake the drudgery which the office involved.
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, that if Members could sit on Committees upstairs for four months there would be no difficulty in obtaining their services for a few weeks in the court below.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  agreed to the doctrine that the Chairman of the second court should be a Member of the House; the question was, Who was to appoint him?
 MR. SPEAKER  would remind the House that he had no power to compel any Member to undertake the duty, and the possibility of putting such a provision into execution would entirely depend upon the willingness of any Member to fill the office. It would be compelling the Speaker to request, as a favour, some Member of the House to undertake the duty, and he thought that that was hardly the form in which the matter should be left.
 MR. INGHAM  said, the duties would occupy from ten in the morning to five in the afternoon daily, and perhaps not excepting Saturday. That would prevent the hon. Member who undertook the office from attending to his public duties.
 MR. LYGON  said, that if the duties did not deter the Chairman of Ways and Means from accepting the office in one court, he thought it ought not to deter any hon. Member from presiding over the second court.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  thought it would be much better to have only one court.
 MR. LYGON  pointed out that if such a Referee were appointed with a salary his seat would be vacated on that account.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, that the Chairman of Ways and Means was appointed with a salary, and did not vacate his seat. He was not an officer under the Crown.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, it was quite clear that the Act only referred to appointments held under the Crown.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, he had now to put the Question that this House do agree with the Resolution of the Committee as amended. He would venture to point out that there had been considerable alteration made in it. It was his business to take upon him any duty the House might choose to impose upon him, but he would have been glad if in the course of the debate some indication had been given by the House with regard to the persons whom they might desire to be appointed as Referees. He had only been able to gather the opinion that the House was averse to the appointment of one class—engineers. When he accepted the duty, he believed that his services would be confined to the appointment of three Referees; and now it was extended possibly to five, and with the class of persons undetermined he could not help feeling that the duty was somewhat difficult to perform.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, there were two officers appointed by the Speaker to examine Private Bills; their appointment had given the utmost satisfaction; and he had no doubt that like satisfaction would be felt with regard to any appointment that might be made by the Speaker under this Bill.
 COLONEL FRENCH  had heard nothing with reference to the amount of remuneration to be paid to the Referees. This
 2146
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the scheme was experimental, If unsuccessful it would be put an end to, and there would be no pension or compensation. The salaries would have to be determined by a vote of the House.
 MR. MASSEY  thought that the rule before the House might be omitted, as it was inappropriate after the decision at which the House had arrived in the course of its discussion of the previous rule.
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  thought the question of remuneration ought to be fixed.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, that in other Departments no difficulty had occurred in this respect.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  asked, in the event of there being two courts, who was to be the Chairman of the second court?
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  thought it would be better to omit the whole Order.
 MR. ROEBUCK  asked, whether these rules were to be acted on before the House had acceded to them? By such a course they would hand over to the Chairman of Ways and Means a power which should be retained in that House.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, the principle of framing these rules was taken from the system of the Courts of Law, and their only object was that the business should be carried on satisfactorily.
 SIR MORTON PETO  asked whether any counsel at all were necessary, as the solicitors and agents were quite competent to conduct the business. He believed that if counsel were let in, not one or two but half-a-dozen courts would be necessary.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, it was at the suggestion of the Parliamentary agents themselves that counsel were to be admitted. The Chairman of Ways and Means, however, would be empowered to regulate the proceedings before the Referees.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  thought that parties ought not to be deprived of the power of employing counsel as they pleased, especially as property to a large extent was involved in many cases that came before these Committees.
 MR. BRADY  said, that the lawyers and agents who had recommended that counsel should be heard before the Board of Referees, were the very parties who were specially interested in increasing the cost of those inquiries.
 MR. LOCKE  said, that perhaps the hon. Gentleman would like the parties to toss up to determine which side should win. The employment of counsel was for the interest of the parties, who naturally desired that their case should be stated in the best manner, and the right to retain counsel for the purpose of these proceedings ought not to be restricted.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  supported the proposal of the hon. Baronet, that only one counsel should be allowed to appear. It would not be desirable to leave it to the Chairman of Ways and Means, who was himself a barrister, to adopt what might appear an invidious rule to his profession.
 MR. INGHAM  thought the proposal of the hon. Baronet a reasonable one.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH,  acknowledging the efforts of the President of the Board of Trade to regulate the fees of the Parliamentary Bar, asked, Whether the right hon. Gentleman could inform the House of any satisfactory result?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he could not give much information on this subject beyond that which was already in the possession of the House. The doctrine which he held was simply this, that the fees of the Parliamentary Bar should be regulated as the fees in the ordinary Courts of Law and Equity were regulated. He was informed that the doors of the Committee-rooms were now thrown open, and that members of the Equity and Common Law Bars could now come in and practise there without incurring the displeasure of the Parliamentary Bar.
 MR. COX  pointed out that, by allowing only one counsel to appear for each party,
 2148
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  thought the restriction a most salutary one, for the result would be the employment of one counsel, who would be present throughout the proceedings and attend exclusively to the case.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, that after the length of time which had already been occupied in that discussion, he would propose that No. 2 in 86 C, which was the only debateable point he believed that still remained, should be left open for consideration in another Session, when he would move it as a special Resolution.
 SIR MORTON PETO  suggested, that Nos. 1, 2, 3, and 4 should be postponed till another Session.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  remarked that this regulation referred to railways, and would involve the whole question.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that the inquiries contemplated in No. I would really place the whole Bill within the jurisdiction of the Referees, whose decision was to be practically without appeal. A noble Lord in the other House was said to be the House of Lords as far as Private Bills were concerned. He was not prepared to make these Referees in the same way the House of Commons.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, the sole effect of the provision would be, that where questions relating to engineering matters were concerned, they would go before the Referees instead of the Committee. He begged, as the discussion had taken
 2149
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  was disposed to agree in the objections of the hon. and learned Member. The efficiency of the works for the proposed object and the sufficiency of the estimate were really inferences from facts. It seemed to him, therefore, that the Referees ought to report the facts, as well as the inference which they drew from those facts.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, that if these paragraphs were struck out the omission would make perfect nonsense of the whole scheme. The facts into which the Referees were to inquire had nothing to do with the merits; they were only the facts upon which the merits depend, and they could be as well ascertained by other parties as by Members of the House.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  thought the engineering details and the sufficiency of the estimate were matters which could properly be ascertained by the Referees.
 MR. SPEAKER  having put the Question that Nos. 1, 2, 3, and 4 be struck out,
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, it appeared to him that such a proposition amounted to asking the House to reconsider their decision. They had decided to constitute Courts of Referees, and it was now necessary to decide what questions should be referred to them. If those four clauses were now to be postponed until next Session they would simply have wasted four hours in a discussion upon them. That would give to their proceedings the character of a farce.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said that, under the circumstances, he would not press the Motion.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he would have no objection to strike out No. 2 in order to save the time of the House, and he would undertake to bring it forward again next Session. With regard to the remaining clauses, they were mere matters of fact upon which he believed there would be no difference of opinion.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  then moved the adoption of Standing Order, 86 F,
 "So soon as the inquiry into the matters referred to them upon any Bill has been completed, the Referees shall make their Report upon the same to the House, and the Report shall thereupon stand referred to the Select Committee on the Bill. No further evidence shall be taken by the Committee to prove or disprove any of the facts reported by the Referees."
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  thought that if the opinion of the Referees was to be final, the Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman would only open the door to useless criticism.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  concurred with the hon. Gentleman in thinking that such an Amendment would only provoke unnecessary discussions.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  did not propose that it should be competent to the Committee to prove or disprove the facts into which the Referees had already inquired; but unless a report of the facts was before the Committee it could not arrive at a conclusion as to whether the inference drawn by the Referees was a correct one, and he was not prepared to deprive the Committees of the House of the power to judge of the inference which should be drawn from ascertained facts.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  reiterated his objections to the right hon. Gentleman's Amendment.
 MR. INGHAM  said, the Referees would have to state the result of certain facts, but the Committee would have no power to go into the details by which the Referees had arrived at them. The policy of the measure would remain in the discretion of the Committee.
 MR. MASSEY  said, the Amendment was no innovation on the existing practice. If the Referees were to report their conclusions without stating the facts upon which they were based, he did not think their Reports would have the confidence of that House. If the Committee had the power to refer the Report back for further consideration he thought it would be sufficient.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, the object of the Standing Order was to allow
 2151
 MR. CHILDERS  said, the material facts were not, at present, the proper inquiry for a Select Committee. It would be the duty of the Referees to look into the details and see that they were sound.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  asked whether, if a Bill was unopposed, the details would be looked into and examined by the Referees?
 MR. ROEBUCK  observed that, in the case of a Water Bill, if the Referees had taken evidence as to the sufficiency of a puddle wall, the Select Committee would be precluded from making any inquiry as to whether the wall was sufficient or not; but if after the construction of the work the wall should fall, the world would say it had been approved by a Select Committee, when, in fact, the catastrophe would be due to the neglect of the Referees.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  then proposed Standing Order 86 G—
 "The Select Committee to which any Bill has been referred may, subject to the approval of the Chairman of Ways and Means, refer any question arising in the course of their inquiry which they may deem suitable to be so referred to the Referees for their decision; such question to be stated in writing, and signed by the Chairman of the Committee. The Referees, so soon as their inquiry has been completed, to return the question, with their decision certified thereon, to the Chairman."
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, the Standing Order was framed at the suggestion of several experienced members of the railway body. A point had arisen the other day between the Great Northern and Great Eastern Railways with regard to the connection of the lines, which it would have been desirable, if it could have been done, to refer to arbitration. It was to meet a similar case that the Standing Order had been introduced.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he thought it would be putting an unlimited amount of labour upon the Chairman of Ways and Means, before the fact was ascertained that he would accept the duty. These Committees were to be permitted to make refer-
 2152
 MR. LOWE  was of opinion that the machinery of reference would break down under the additional work thus proposed to be put upon it.
 MR. MASSEY  hoped the House would not overburden the Chairman of Ways and Means.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, this was the last of these Resolutions. If the experiment should fail, he would be one of the first to vote for its repeal. He thought, however, that it would be beneficial.
 SIR MORTON PETO  hoped the hon. Member would not press his Amendment, I and the other Resolutions of which the hon. Member had given notice, as they would be fatal to many great undertakings already in progress. He would be quite ready to consider the whole subject in another Session.
 MR. MASSEY  said, that the change which his hon. Friend proposed to make was one of a very extensive character, but it did not properly relate to the mere Standing Orders of the House. He would recommend his hon. Friend to withdraw
 2153
 MR. SCOURFIELD  intimated that he would not press the Amendment.
 MR. MASSEY  said, that the proposal was one of a novel character, and would entail a considerable addition of expenditure on the parties. He did not say, however, that it ought on that account to be rejected. But he would ask the hon. Gentleman to withdraw his Motion for the present so as to allow him (Mr. Massey) to confer with those persons concerned in the conduct of private business, and next Session he would have an opportunity of conferring with the hon. Member himself, and the result might be a proposition which would be generally acceptable.
 MR. TORRENS  intimated that after that assurance he would not press the Motion.
 MR. AYRTON  objected to a provision marked C, inserted by the other House, which conferred a privilege on coal vessels not enjoyed by vessels engaged in other branches of commerce—namely, to unload in the river and escape dock duties. It was better to leave the Thames as a free highway for the equal benefit of all descriptions of commerce, and he begged to move
 2154
 MR. AYRTON  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, that this provision had been inserted by the Lords in opposition to the opinion of the Select Committee. He could inform the House that a large portion of his constituents were opposed to the clause, and considered that their interests had been overlooked by its introduction at a period of the Session when it was almost impossible to discuss it properly.
 MR. BRADY  hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman would press his Motion.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he would, under the promise held out, withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. LOCKE  objected to an Amendment of the Lords which threw out a provision prohibiting any extension being made in the sewers or drains leading into the Thames outside the metropolitan districts. The Court of Chancery had granted an injunction against this drainage being carried out at Kingston, which would remain in force till Michaelmas term next; but the rejection of the clause would permit Kingston and also all other towns on the banks of the Thames to empty their sewage into the river. Seeing that the inhabitants of London were taxed to the extent of four millions to prevent this being done in the case of London, he thought it was inconsistent to allow other towns to
 2155
 MR. LOCKE  said, that this was an attempt to restrict everybody else connected with this matter for the benefit of a favoured class. He did not know why colliers should not go into dock the same as other vessels.
 MR. HUTT  hoped that his hon. Friend would not press his Amendment, as by so doing it might imperil the Bill itself at that late period of the Session. He believed that the Bill would greatly increase the facilities of the navigation of the Thames. He proposed to add a few words to the clause restraining the exercise of any undue power by any individuals under the Act.
 MR. HUTT  agreed in all the hon. and learned Gentleman had said on the importance of keeping the Thames free from pollution, but he appealed to the hon. and learned Gentleman not to press his Motion, as it might defeat the measure for the Session. He would undertake that the subject should be brought under the serious consideration of the Government during the recess.
 MR. T. G. BARING,  in reply, said, he believed the stipend of the newly appointed Canon of Westminster would be fixed, and that it would amount to £1,000 a year. As, however, the question depended upon the construction of several Acts of Parliament, he could not give a positive answer.
 MR. KINGLAKE  asked, Whether, on the part of the Government, the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs can convey an assurance that before the Government advises the Queen to recognize the Archduke Ferdinand Maximilian as Emperor of Mexico they will be prepared to satisfy the House that his authority is  de facto
 MR. LINDSAY  said, he also hoped that the very able and excellent speech of the noble Lord would obtain wide publicity, although he hardly knew how its circula-ton could be undertaken by the House. These poor emigrants might not be aware of the fact, that the American dollar at the present rate of exchange was worth only about 1 s. d. 2178
 LORD EDWARD HOWARD  said, he rose to call attention to the subject of Emigration to the United States of America in reference to the prolongation of the war now raging in that country, and to move an Address for Papers. He certainly should not have attempted to intrude on their attention at that late period of the Session had it not been that a case had presented itself which it appeared to him necessary he should bring before the House. In the course of his duty as a member of the Distress Relief Committee at Glossop, one of the towns most affected by the cotton distress, it became necessary to have a census made of the population of the district, and one of the elements of that census was the character of the emigration which prevailed. It appeared from that census that there had been a very large emigration from that district, and from the inquiry which supervened he found it was also large from the cotton districts in general. In twenty-two towns, taken promiscuously from the cotton districts—and he did not know that they were the largest towns—there had been within a few months, setting aside single men, no less than 1,460 married men who had left this country for the United States of America, of whom no fewer than 780 had deserted their wives and families, leaving 2,160 chargeable on the rates. He had also the names of fourteen persons who had emigrated within three months from one spot near Manchester, and of these no fewer than twelve had deserted their wives and children. In all probability the 780 married men who had deserted their families were young and able men not long married, and in the most active period of their lives. That emigration, attended by such calamitous results, must show that there were deep causes at work for the present state of things, which was to be lamented, not only for its anti-social results, but for the country generally. It would not meet the argument to say that these men had emigrated with a view afterwards to send for their families, because he knew that there had been instances in which the manufacturers of America had sent for manufacturing hands from England, had paid for the passage of those who went over including not only the working hands, but their families also, and the money thus advanced was afterwards repaid out of the men's wages
 2162 "A companion of his had seen an advertisement in some newspaper requiring first-rate mechanics for a workshop in Canada. He searched out and found the advertiser, who assured him that work; was plentiful in Canada, and that he would have permanent employment at 35 s. 2163 2164 "I am very much surprised that people keep coming to this country, knowing that paper money is at such a discount and provisions so very high—clothing the same. Tell Cousin—from me, that 15 s. s. s. 2165 2166 "The bounties both of the United States and of the several States, added to local premiums, amount to 700 dols., and even 820 dols., besides 15 dols. to 25 dols. to the bringer in of a recruit, and as the poor Irish are generally made drunk and given at the outside 25 dols., the sharks who prey on them collect the balance, and thus a cargo of 120, as in this instance, would net a very large profit to the speculators. There are some features in these transactions which involuntarily recall to my mind my experiences in Cuba. I trust, however, that the publication of what those who hire themselves as labourers may expect on this side will cheek the traffic." "There can be no doubt that there was a systematic attempt made to get these emigrants drunk for the purpose of enlistment. Policeman Berrick's evidence on this subject is most important. He states, 'While in Mr. Bradley's (liquor store) there were two or three well-dressed men, I do not know their names, but have seen them in this city, who appeared to be liberal with their money. These men were not drinking themselves, but the emigrants were. I saw a man who said he was from Augusta, who appeared to be talking with the men out on the railroad track. This man said to me he was a recruiting officer, and wanted some of my help to get some of the men. I told him the police had nothing to do with business of that kind. He insinuated to me that if the men wanted liquor to aid them in getting it. I told him no, that I did not drink myself, and would not assist in procuring any for the men." 2167 "The evidence given by the police officers and the recruiting officers proves that there was a very good understanding between these functionaries, and that the latter were even called and admitted to the cells with the object of inducing the men to enlist." "Washington, May 3, 1864. "My Lord,—The number of British subjects who are serving in the United States' army and navy is very considerable; and complaints are constantly made to me of the practices by which the enlistment of many of them has been effected. I may say, indeed, that the most laborious and most painful and unsatisfactory part of the duties which have devolved upon this Legation, since the breaking out of the civil war, is connected with these complaints. No pains have been spared by Her Majesty's Consuls and myself in investigating them, and every effort has been made by us to obtain redress for those which have appeared to be well founded. In few cases, however, have our efforts produced any satisfactory results." "Almost every imaginable form of outrage and deception has been developed in the cases in
 2168 "There seems to be little doubt that many—in fact, I think I am justified in saying the most—of these unfortunate men were either deceived or kidnapped, or both, in the most scandalous and inhuman manner in New York city, where they were drugged and carried off to New Hampshire and Connecticut, mustered in, and uniformed before their consciousness was fully restored. … Nearly all are foreigners, mostly sailors, both ignorant of, and indifferent to, the objects of the war in which they thus suddenly find themselves involved. … Two men were shot here this morning for desertion, and over thirty more are now awaiting trial or execution." "They will not allow any man to be deceived or inveigled into the service by false representations, but will in person explain the nature of the service, the length of the term, the pay, clothing, rations, and other allowances to which a soldier is entitled by law, to every man before he signs the enlistment." 2169 "Washington, May 23, 1804, "My Lord,—Since I first became acquainted two months ago with the circumstances under which some of the Irish passengers on board the  Nova Scotian 2170 2171 "Her Majesty's Government have considered, in communication with the Law Advisers of the Crown, your Lordship's despatches of the 11th of March and 19th of April, relative to the case of the Irishmen recently enlisted at Portland and Boston for service in the United States army; and I have to state to you that it appears to Her Majesty's Government to be clear from these papers, and from the reports on the same subject which have been received from Her Majesty's Consuls at those ports, that no doubt can be entertained that the enlistment of these Irishmen was the result of a fraudulent scheme, contrived and executed in disregard of the laws and neutral rights of Great Britain. Her Majesty's Government consider that the men enlisted at Portland were induced, in evident bad faith and under false pretences, to leave their own country for the purpose of obtaining employment, which was not really ready for them on their arrival in the United States; that on landing at Portland they were designedly plied with drink, and that they were then dealt with in a manner which (although it might be the legal consequence of their disordered condition) made it natural and almost inevitable that they should easily yield to the persuasions of the recruiting officers, who were on the look-out for them, and who obtained access to them while in confinement, by the aid of the police authorities." s. d. 2172 "Copy of Papers on the subject of Emigration to the United States of America, in reference to the prolongation of the war now raging in that country."
 LORD EDWARD HOWARD,  in reply, said, that if he were to consult his own: feelings only, he could not but be deeply gratified by the kind approval of his speech that had been expressed by hon. Members on both aides of the House, but he could not avoid knowing that that approval was due to the goodness of his cause: and the aptness of the materials he had employed. He hoped that some means would be found of putting the public upon their guard against unconsciously venturing upon a step which might involve; them in disaster and ruin. While thanking the hon. Member for Leicester for his approval of part of his speech, he must say; that he thought the hon. Member had mistaken the purport of those remarks of his which he supposed to militate against his impartiality. Had he desired to embitter the discussion, he could have mentioned a case in which the great power of this country had been used and with immediate effect. He referred to the case of the Trent. He had, however, rather appealed to the propriety of international law and to the justice of international feeling, with a view that the present state of things might cease. The hon. Member for Leicester seemed to think that he had overstated the enhancement of prices in America, but he had quoted the letter of one who was on the spot, and there could be no doubt that since that letter was written prices had still further advanced proportionately with the increase in the price of gold. He thanked the Under Secretary of State for his offer to grant all the information in his power to give, and he trusted that some means of making public that information would be found. It was, after all, by the usual means of public information that the greatest amount of good might be done in this matter, as, if the information was published, not only in the London newspapers, but also in the local and Irish newspapers, it would be brought effectually within the reach of all classes. He should be grateful to think he had a share in any good result which this discussion might produce.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, the speech
 2181 bonâd fide 2182
 MR. LAYARD  thought his noble Friend had done good service by the able and impartial address which he had just delivered. This was a most difficult Question for the Government to deal with, and he really did not know how the undoubted grievances which existed were to be avoided more effectually than by the publication of the important statement which the noble Lord had addressed to the House. He hoped that what his noble Friend had said would
 2173 2174 2175
 MR. LAYARD  replied that there was some difficulty in ascertaining exactly what portion of Mexico was actually in the hands of the new Mexican Government, or rather of the French troops. According to the latest accounts he had been able to collect, the French troops were in possession of the capital, Vera Cruz, Tampico, Alvarado, Minatitlan, Laguna del Terminos, San Juan Baptista, Sisal, Campeachy, and Puebla. The French troops were also blockading Acapulco, Tuspan, Nantla, and Tabasco. On the 1st of May last Juarez was established at Monterey, and Matamoras was also then in the possession of the Mexicans. That was the only information he could give to his hon. Friend with re-
 2160 de facto de facto
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, in reply, that in answer to the first Question of the hon. and gallant Member, he had to state that in the Irregular Regiments in India the rank of commandant was given to an officer quite irrespectively of his rank in the regular army. It was not proposed to abolish the power of making the appointment of commandants in the manner stated in the Question, and thus prevent the Government from putting the right man in the right place; but that course would only be adopted in very exceptional cases. In reply to the second Question, he had to state that the position of an officer under such circumstances in a Native Regiment had no connection with his regimental rank or pay.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If the newly I appointed Canon of Westminster, who is  ex officio
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he would be glad to ascertain from the Chief Secretary for Ireland whether since the debate on Irish emigration he had received information that the departure of men, evidently for the American army, was still going on. By the most recent communications from Ireland it appeared that the number of vessels and emigrants leaving Cork was as
 2176 "The condition of the men the morning after their arrival in Charlestown was anything but gratifying. Their number had already been diminished by those left behind at Portland, and of these the recruiting agents had snapped up eight. Without money, without friends, with scanty clothing, with no means to procure sustenance, they would have suffered greatly, had not kind hearted country-women supplied their wants. Recruiting agents hovered round them, and in the course of the day gobbled up several. On the evening of Thursday they had another interview with Mr. Kidder, when they were told the hall must be cleared, and they would not have had a place to lay their heads had not Captain John Warren, who keeps an establishment on that street, near by, bestirred himself and procured billets for them upon the neighbours round. Yesterday morning they were still in Bunker-hill-street, subsisting upon charity, and still pestered with recruiting agents." "Their supper, when they arrived in Bunker-hill-street, after fasting all day, consisted of a barrel of crackers and a cheese, with a knife on it, and the question was, 'Who shall? and there was a scramble, some getting enough for five, others getting nothing. For breakfast they had buckets of whisky. That night, without beds, or even straw, enlisting agents were among them all the time." 2177
 MR. P. A. TAYLOR  said, he thought it unfortunate that the noble Lord's excellent speech should have been supported by the hon. Member for Sunderland. The noble Lord's Motion was couched in the calm and impartial spirit which was most likely to produce an effect in that House. He advocated the rights of his countrymen without regard to political parties in America, and in this impartiality lay the strength of the argument of the noble Lord. But the name of the hon. Member for Sunderland was most unmistakably connected with the idea of his being a warm partisan of the Southern Confederacy. He, however, disagreed with one or two of the points in the noble Lord's speech. The noble Lord spoke of the hardships which emigrants experienced on landing in America, owing to the enormous price they had to pay for provisions—twice as much as before; but his Lordship seemed hardly to bear in mind that this was the effect of the change of the value of money. Another point in which he disagreed with the noble Lord was this: he said that what this country was desirous of was simply peace. He (Mr. Taylor) denied this. Large masses in this country desired peace, but they desired peace that should be honourable to the United States of North America, and that such peace should not come till the hideous curse of slavery that had blighted America and was the real cause of the war should be swept away. He was aware that these sentiments were not popular with the upper ten thousand or the upper twenty thousand of this country; but he believed that out of 200 public meetings on the subject, only six or eight had been decided adversely to the Northern States. When the interference of British subjects in the American struggle was so
 2180
 MR. FERRAND  said, the working classes of this country, as well as of Ireland, must feel greatly indebted to the noble Lord for his able and important speech. He concurred in the opinion that that speech ought to be circulated throughout the country. The expense of doing so might be great, nevertheless he would ask the Government whether they had not some funds in hand—secret-service money for example—which could be usefully employed for that purpose.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether, now that the Regiments of the Three Native Armies of India are termed Irregulars, it is intended to continue the exceptional practice of appointing Officers to Regiments to be Commandants and second in command of Regiments, irre-
 2159
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he should have come to the House prepared with details which he thought would have refuted the hon. and learned Member's assertion, that emigration and enlistment were still going on in Ireland in the same degree as was the case some time ago, if he had expected that the question would have been raised again that day. That question, it would be recollected, had already been fully discussed in the House, when the views of the Government in this matter were fully stated. Since then the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland had issued a proclamation on the subject, which had been circulated throughout the country; and he hoped, and indeed believed, that it had had a salutary effect in checking emigration for the purpose of enlistment. The Government could not stop the emigration, but they warned the people as much as possible against the traps and snares that were likely to beset them on their arrival on the American continent. He had listened with great attention to the interesting speech of the noble Lord, and thought it was a most admirable demonstration of humane and charitable feeling, which would certainly be productive of great good. It was only by such kindly and temperate expressions of opinion as the noble Lord had uttered that these poor people who were contemplating emigration could be induced to open their eyes and give ear to the advice which had already been given to them by the Government. He could only say
 2179
 MR. GRANT DUFF  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether a Royal Commission is about to be issued to inquire into all those Endowed Schools which were not inquired into by the last two Education Commissions?
 MAJOR STUART KNOX  said, he would beg to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government a Question of which he had given him private notice, it was
 2193
 MR. KINGLAKE , in rising to submit the Motion of which he had given notice relative to Mexico, observed that the papers for which he should move were necessary, in justification of the very important decision which had been come to by Government. He thought this country could not sufficiently congratulate itself on the fact that, thanks to the spirit and sagacity of Sir Charles Wyke, it was happily disentangled from the invasion the French were carrying on in Mexico. He was glad to find that the information of Her Majesty's Government with regard to the extent of that invasion was even more favourable to the views which he entertained on this question, than was the information which had come to himself. They now knew the extent of territory into which
 2200 2201 2202
 VISCOUNT TALMERSTON  said, the course which Her Majesty's Government intend to pursue in this case does not differ in principle from the course which the Government has invariably pursued in similar cases. It has been our practice to acknowledge established Governments. Without going into minute questions as to the origin of the Government—whether it be a republic or a monarchy—when we find a Government established we enter into friendly relations with that Government. My hon. Friend says that we have promised prematurely to acknowledge the Emperor of Mexico before that empire has practically and really been established. I do not think our engagements have gone to that extent. Before the Archduke left Europe we were asked to acknowledge him as the future Emperor of Mexico.
 2203 2204
 THE LORD CHANCELLOR  said—
 MR. NEWDEGATE , in explanation, read the resolution agreed to by the Middlesex Sessions—
 "That it appears to this Court that, by the laws now in force, all prisoners who belong to churches or persuasions differing from the Church of England, in addition to the instruction they may be willing to receive from the chaplain of the prison, are entitled, at their own request, to be visited by a minister of the religious persuasion to which they belong; but no prisoners are compellable to receive such visits against their will; that comparatively few prisoners of the various religious denominations have made such requests, and those who have have been duly visited; this Court is, therefore, of opinion that the present arrangements for the moral and religious instruction of the prisoners are sufficient, and that any appointments by this Court, or permission by the visiting justices, for Roman Catholic priests to attend at the prisons on all occasions, whether their ministrations are required or not, would be unnecessary and improper."
 MR. NEWDEGATE , having had the honour of presenting a petition from the Middlesex magistrates, might state that he was present at the discussion which resulted in the passing of the resolution alluded to by the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the King's County. He thought it right to call the attention of the House to a former resolution of the Middlesex magistrates, the last words of which were—
 "And no prisoner belonging to any church or religious persuasion shall be compelled to attend any religious service, held or performed by any chaplain, minister, or religious instructor of a church or religious persuasion to which the said prisoner does not belong." 2197
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, in consequence of his unavoidable absence, he was unable to submit to the House the Motion which stood in his name in reference to the Correspondence on the subject of the Reformatory of Mount St. Bernard. He begged now to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department as he can not allude to that correspondence, whether the certificate of the Inspector as regarded the Reformatory has not been practically withdrawn?
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, in reply, that the investigation of the Indian Finance Accounts was submitted to the charge of two gentleman, upon whom devolved the duty of arranging them; and in the majority of cases it was found impossible to submit the financial statement to that House at an earlier period of the Session. He apprehended that the best course he could pursue would be to communicate with Sir Charles Trevelyan, with a view to ascertain what could be done in order to get the accounts at an earlier period than at present. In reply to the second Question of the hon. Gentleman, he thought it would be of no advantage, but that it would be, on the other hand, an evil to attempt to distribute the accounts of each Presidency—as that for instance of Bengal —within its own limits—inasmuch as the accounts of each district would furnish no guide to the general revenue and expenditure of the country. In answer to the third Question, he had only to say he should have not the least objection to state at any time the number of troops for whom the charges in the accounts had been incurred.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he wished to know whether the cat was made of leather, and not of whipcord?
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would beg to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government, Whether any information has reached him in regard to the nine months' armistice agreed upon between the Danish and the German Powers? As this armistice has been agreed to before the arrival of the Danish Representative at the Conference, it must have been effected through foreign mediation. He wished to know, Whether the noble Lord is aware of any such foreign mediation?
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether the 20th section of the Volunteer Act of 1863 will apply to the
 2190 "A Volunteer, or Non-Commissioned Officer of the Volunteer Permanent Staff, disabled on actual Military Service, shall, according to his rank, be entitled to the like pension and other benefits, if any, as a Soldier of Her Majesty's Army."
 MR. WYLD  desired to defend Mr. Pownall from the imputation of any religious bias in this matter. That gentleman had for a number of years discharged the duties of his office with honour to himself and to the satisfaction of the public.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he should like to know what Her Majesty's Government intend to do in regard to the Marriage Law in Ireland. At that moment there was the verdict of an Irish jury which had been upheld by the decision of the full Court of Common Pleas in Ireland, declaring Miss Longworth to be the lawful wife of Major Yelverton; and now they had further the decision of the final Court of Appeal that, according to the law of Scotland, she is not the wife of that gentleman.
 MR. HENNESSY : The jury found it to be legal.
 MR. HENNESSY , pursuant to notice, rose to call attention to the proceedings of the Middlesex magistrates with reference to the Prison Ministers Act; and to move an address for papers. The hon. Gentleman said, a few days ago, he had presented a petition, signed by upwards of 10,000 Roman Catholics residing in the county of Middlesex, complaining that the provisions of the Prison Ministers Act had not been carried into effect by the Middlesex magistrates. It appeared that during the year ending Michaelmas, 1863, no less than forty-six Roman Catholics were received into the three prisons of Middlesex, and that at one time, in February last, those three prisons contained Roman Catholic prisoners. The petitioners stated that, owing to the conduct of the Middlesex magistrates, those unfortunate prisoners were deprived of that spiritual consolation and religious instruction which by the Prison Ministers Act the Legislature intended to give them. The Middlesex magistrates not only refused to appoint a Roman Catholic priest to attend upon those prisoners, but they had subsequently taken a particular step which indicated that they had been animated by motives which he did not think that House would approve. After refusing to carry out the provisions of the Prison Ministers Act, they proceeded a few days afterwards to pass the following resolution—
 "That a Scripture Reader be appointed, at a salary of £80 per annum, whose duty shall be—first, to see every prisoner about to be discharged a sufficient length of time beforehand to enable him to make himself acquainted, as far as may be, with his position and character, with a view to ascertaining whether he is a fit object for relief by the Visiting Justices, through the agency of the Discharged Prisoners Aid Committee; secondly, to devote whatever time remains at his disposal to the religious instruction of the prisoners generally, in the two new buildings of the prison, and that in this part of his duties he be placed under the supervision and control of the prison chaplain." 2196 The Times
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL  said, he rose to ask, Whether the Government intend
 2194
 MR. P. A. TAYLOR  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether it is a fact that Prince Couza has issued a Proclamation dated 2nd (14th) July to the Roumanian people, wherein it is stated that—
 "His Majesty the Sultan, our Illustrious Sovereign, and the Guaranteeing Powers, have recognized the New Institutions of Roumania created by the Plebiscite of the 10th (22nd) to the 14th (26th) May?"
 MR. TORRENS  said, he wished to explain that his inquiry merely extended to the expenses, and not to the number of the troops employed.
 MR. TORRENS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether he proposes to direct the attention of the Government of India to the necessity of closing the Finance and Revenue Accounts on a much earlier date than at present, in order that the Indian Financial Statement may be made soon after the meeting of Parliament; whether he has any objection to have the Finance at
 2192
 COLONEL SYKES  said, in the absence of his hon. Friend (Mr. Buxton), he would bog to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether his attention has been called to the case of John Croudace and Thomas Allison, who were flogged on Saturday last in the County Prison at Sunderland; and what the names were of the magistrates by whom the same was ordered and superintended?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied, that his attention had been called to this case by a Question which had been put to him the other evening. He assumed then that this punishment had been inflicted by virtue of a sentence passed in conformity with the provisions of an Act passed last Session, which, for the first time, authorized corporal punishment to be inflicted in certain cases, in addition to penal servitude. Since then he had seen the calendar and the list of the convictions, and he found that these two prisoners were convicted of robbery with violence, and were sentenced by Mr. Baron Pigott to terms of penal servitude, and to receive twenty lashes with the cat within one week of the date of their conviction. He
 2191
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he did not know the difference, or whether the cat of leather or of whipcord was the heavier instrument. The Judge who passed the sentence directed that the punishment should be inflicted with a cat instead of a birch-rod, according to the provisions of the statute.
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in reply, said, an application was recently made to his noble Friend at the head of the Government for issuing a Commission with a view of inquiry into the state of those schools in which the children of the middle classes were principally educated, which were not included within the scope of the Commission for inquiry into the higher-class schools, nor within that of the Commission to inquire into the state of the ordinary schools for the lower class, which were supported by Parliamentary Grants. The Government thought it would be very useful that such an inquiry should take place, and a Commission would shortly be issued.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied that the papers for which the hon. Gentleman gave notice of his intention to move did not relate, as he (Sir George Grey) understood, to recent circumstances, but only to the alleged mismanagement and disorder which prevailed at the Reformatory in 1863. A great deal of correspondence had taken place on the subject, but as the management of the institution had since passed into other hands, it was not considered expedient to produce it. He had certainly determined upon withdrawing the certificate; but subsequently he allowed it to remain in consequence of a representation having been made by the Inspector (Mr. Sidney Turner), that much inconvenience would arise if it were withdrawn. The certificate was then allowed to stand subject to the condition that the management of the Reformatory would be taken out of the hands of the monks and placed in other hands, which, was agreed to.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : The jury only determined a question of fact.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the question in the case alluded to was one of fact, not of law. Surely the hon. Gentleman could not mean to say that a marriage performed by a Roman Catholic Priest between a Protestant and Roman Catholic was legal?
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in answer to the hon. and learned Member for the King's County, begged to say that the papers recently laid upon the table contained the correspondence asked for. He had done all that he felt he could do, in pointing out to the visiting justices of Middlesex the power which the law placed in their hands in this matter, and in urging upon them their responsibility in the exercise of that power. The Prison Ministers Act did three things. It gave power in England to the magistrates in quarter sessions to appoint a Roman Catholic priest to visit the Roman Catholic prisoners, where there was a certain number of prisoners of that persuasion, and it also empowered them to award such remuneration as they deemed just to the Roman Catholic priest who performed those services. In a subsequent part of the Act, the visiting justices, as distinguished from the Court of Quarter Session, were expressly authorized to dispense with the necessity of exacting a request from the Roman Catholic prisoner as a condition to his seeing a priest, and were likewise enabled to permit a priest, if they saw fit, to visit the prisoners of his own church, subject to certain arrange-
 2198 2199
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether (France and England having placed on record that in their opinion no satisfactory settlement of the Schleswig-Holstein Question can be arrived at otherwise than, with the consent of the populations of those countries, either through their constitutional organs or in some other way, and Prussia having made proposals during the Conference which implied that she shared that opinion) Her Majesty's Government have, in conjunction with that of His Majesty the Emperor of the French, taken steps to urge on the
 2189
 MR. HUTT  said, in the absence of his noble Friend (the Marquess of Hartington), he would endeavour to answer the Question of the hon. Member. He regretted to say that the Volunteer who was the subject of the unfortunate accident was not, under the provisions of the Volunteer Act of 1863, entitled to a pension. He was not, within the meaning of that Act, engaged on actual military service. Such actual military service would only occur to a Volunteer in the event of an invasion of the country, or the immediate apprehension of such an event.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, Prince Couza, of his own authority, issued edicts entirely altering the constitution of the Principalities. The Porte objected to that, and so did the Powers who at the Treaty of Paris had to a certain degree undertaken to secure to the Principalities certain constitutional institutions. The Prince was summoned to Constantinople, where he communicated with the Porte and with the Representatives of the Powers who were parties to the Treaty of Paris, and the result of the deliberations of these parties was an agreement between the Porte and Prince Couza as to certain modifications in the constitution which had been given, certain portions of that constitution being maintained and other portions being altered. The result was considered satisfactory, both by the Porte and by the other European Powers.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : No, Sir; as long as the British Government were acting in Conference in conjunction with the other Neutral Powers, of course proposals and suggestions were made; but the Conference being over, negotiations have terminated and the negotiations being now conducted between the belligerent parties, it is not the intention of Her Majesty's Government to interfere further in the matter.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON , in reply, said, he believed that no such mediation had been employed. He believed that the French Government had recommended moderation to the German Powers, but the negotiations had been carried on entirely between the Representative of Denmark on the one side, and those of Austria and Prussia on the other.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  was under-stood to say that the Question was a large one, and that he could not undertake to promise off-hand that the law on the subject would be considered by the Government.
 VISCOWT PALMERSTON : Really, Sir, I have no information on the subject. I take it for granted that whenever the event to which the hon. and gallant Member has referred may be expected to take place, the Government will take all the measures which it will be their duty to take in order to preserve public order.
